"Attorney General Eric Holder made a bit of a splash when speaking at Columbia earlier this year. He told the audience at his alma mater that he could not imagine a time when the need for racial preferences like affirmative action would cease.
So at what point does racism stop mattering in American life? Perhaps you’ve entertained this question before. If government, civil society and churches have been laboring against this great sin for decades, is there anything to show for it?
Surely, in 300 years, after our great-grandchildren are deceased, the old, nasty attitudes so prevalent before the Civil Rights era will have been expunged. But if not, there will be sophisticated equipment–maybe like a Star Trek tricorder–to empirically identify any remnants.
For now, we are lucky to have wagging tongues like Chris Matthews to tell us when someone is being racist. Or, we can just as well heed the dire warnings of speakers at this year’s Democratic National Convention.
Anyone who genuinely seeks a substantive discussion of issues, such as our raging national debt or the proper scope of federal government, has required a little patience in dealing with smokescreens thrown up by progressives and Democrats. We know these as racism, the war on women, homophobia and so on.
The identity politics fiefdom built on these “wedge” issues is troubling in how it treats people in need as abstractions, not individuals. The long history of progressive prescriptions affirms the ineffectiveness of promises perennially extended toward these abstracted victims. President Johnson launched a “War on Poverty” in the 1960s, but the numbers of poor and dependent have reliably increased in the decades since. Why should we think that President Obama, in spending ever more sums on the same problems, will change that?
While some conditions haven’t improved, there has been tremendous progress on societal attitudes. Among those born after the tumult of the 1960s, the ideal of “equality” crowns the paramount virtue of “tolerance.” But many remain beholden to the hope that just a little more money to social programs, a little more Ad Council propaganda, will actually change conditions for the abstraction.
What if these well-intended moves crowd out the healthy habits and cultural capital necessary to the success of the individual? These, not the wasteful expenditures of federal welfare programs, are what can change conditions on the ground. But to assess this soberly will require a little distance from the crooning promises of “Hope and Change” or MSNBC’s alarmist cries of “racism!”
Would it be safe to say that, in America today, we’re beyond the half-life of racism or patriarchy? Existential struggle against oppression need not trump every policy consideration. As I noted recently, a diverse lineup of thought leaders in media and at this year’s Republican National Convention have given us hope that we’re past that point. For the sake of true progress, and the issues that really matter, I hope November will reflect a similar move among the population at large."
Start with the debt that he inherited and add to it the $2.5 trillion that it is now estimated that he will add by the end of 2019 and you find that President Trump is racking up debt at a pace only slightly less than that of Barack Obama.
"SEOUL -- The United States' decision to reinstate sanctions on Iran could constrain South Korea's oil imports from the Middle Eastern nation and cast uncertainty on the business prospects of local refiners, industry insiders said Wednesday.
The U.S. and other world powers agreed to lift some economic sanctions on Iran in a 2016 agreement, but President Donald Trump announced Tuesday that the U.S. will walk away from the deal and impose ""powerful"" sanctions on Tehran.
While the Treasury Department said sanctions on Iran will come with a six-month grace period, industry insiders say Washington's tough decision on the world's fifth-largest oil producer is expected to have ripple effects on South Korea's oil trade and the energy industry as a whole.
South Korea had been buying condensates from Qatar and the U.S., but after the lifting of sanctions on Iran in 2016, local oil refiners sharply jacked up the imports of the gassy ultralight fossil fuel from the Middle Eastern country. Iranian oil accounted for 13 percent of the country's total crude imports last year, coming in third place after Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
Industry insiders say the scope of the impact will be determined by a range of factors, including how much Iranian crude is restricted by the sanctions and whether other major producers can fill the gap. Local refiners say cutting off Iranian oil imports will have a limited impact in the short term, but increased volatility in the market could create uncertainties for businesses.
""The short-term impact is limited as local refiners have time to prepare measures to replace Iranian oil purchases with other imports until the renewed U.S. sanctions go into effect,"" an official from a local refiner said.
Experts say the fresh U.S. sanctions could affect Korean companies seeking to do business and invest in infrastructure and development projects in Iran. In 2017, South Korea exported $4.02 billion worth of goods, including auto parts, display and chemical products, to Iran, up 8.2 percent from a year earlier, according to KITA.
(Yonhap)	"
"Republican Sen. Mitt Romney issued a sharp rebuke of President Donald Trump on Friday following the release of special counsel Robert Mueller's report, saying he was ""sickened"" by details in revealed in the document.

""I am sickened at the extent and pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection by individuals in the highest office of the land, including the President. I am also appalled that, among other things, fellow citizens working in a campaign for president welcomed help from Russia,"" the Utah Republican said in a statement.
Mueller's investigation into possible obstruction of justice could not clear Trump, according to a redacted version of the special counsel's report released Thursday, which provided new details of Trump's efforts to influence the investigation into his campaign and Russia.
As Senate Democrats begin to call for Trump's impeachment based on Mueller's evidence, Romney is one of the first Republican senators to sharply rebuke the actions outlined in the report. Romney has historically been one of the harshest Republican critics of the President."
"President Trump seethed Friday over the special counsel’s portrayal of his protracted campaign to thwart the Russia investigation and directed much of his ire at former White House counsel Donald McGahn, whose ubiquity in the report’s footnotes laid bare his extensive cooperation in chronicling the president’s actions.

Some of the report’s most derogatory scenes were attributed not only to the recollections of McGahn and other witnesses but also to the contemporaneous notes kept by several senior administration officials — the kind of paper trail that Trump has long sought to avoid leaving.

Many White House aides use pen and paper both as a defensive mechanism — such as when then-Chief of Staff John F. Kelly documented Trump’s move to grant security clearances to his daughter and son-in-law, Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner — and as a means of creating the first draft of a page-turning presidency."
"President Donald Trump lashed out Friday at current and former aides who cooperated with special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, insisting the deeply unflattering picture they painted of him and the White House was “total bullshit.”

In a series of angry tweets from rainy Palm Beach, Florida, Trump laced into those who, under oath, had shared with Mueller their accounts of how Trump tried numerous times to squash or influence the investigation and portrayed the White House as infected by a culture of lies, deceit and deception.

“Statements are made about me by certain people in the Crazy Mueller Report, in itself written by 18 Angry Democrat Trump Haters, which are fabricated & totally untrue,” Trump wrote, adding that some were “total bullshit & only given to make the other person look good (or me to look bad).”"
" The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Rep. Jerrold Nadler, has issued a subpoena for special counsel Robert Mueller’s full report as Democrats intensified their investigation of President Donald Trump, but leaders stopped short of liberal demands for impeachment proceedings.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has insisted on a methodical, step-by-step approach to the House’s oversight of the Trump administration, and she refuses to consider impeachment without public support, including from Republicans, which seems unlikely. But in light of Mueller’s findings , Democratic leaders are under mounting pressure from the party’s rising stars, deep-pocketed donors and even a presidential contender to seize the moment as a jumping-off point for trying to remove Trump from office."
"President Donald Trump will visit Japan on May 25, following Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's visit to Washington in April, the White House announced.

Trump will be accompanied by first lady Melania Trump on the Japan trip, scheduled for May 25 to 28, the White House press secretary's office said Thursday. Japan will install its new emperor on May 1, indicating that the Trumps will be Emperor Naruhito's first state guests."
"President Donald Trump, in his written answers to special counsel Robert Mueller, said more than 30 times that he did not ""recall"" or ""remember"" or have an ""independent recollection"" of events related to key questions surrounding Russian investigation. 

As part of Mueller's 448-page report, which was released Thursday and divided into two volumes, the Justice Department also released Trump's answers to dozens of questions from Mueller's office relating to key aspects of the investigation into whether the Trump campaign conspired with Russia to interfere in the 2016 election. 

The questions centered around five key topics: The June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower with members of Trump's circle and a Russian attorney, the Kremlin's hacking efforts, the Trump Tower Moscow project and the various contacts with Russia during the campaign. 

The report noted that Mueller's office tried for a year to interview Trump as part of its investigation, noting that the president was a ""subject"" of the investigation. Mueller's office said it told Trump's counsel that ""[a]n interview with the president is vital to our investigation,"" adding that ""it is in the interest of the Presidency and the public for an interview to take place."" 



Trump's answers were dubbed both ""inadequate"" and ""incomplete or imprecise"" by Mueller in the report. Mueller added that his office considered subpoenaing the president for his testimony but decided the ""investigation had made significant progress"" and that he had enough evidence from other sources to determine the credibility of Trump's answers, the report states. 
"
"President Donald Trump's re-election campaign has announced he's holding a rally in Michigan at the end of the month.

The announcement came shortly after Trump vetoed a congressional measure blocking his declaration of a national emergency at the Mexican border.

The campaign says the rally is set for the Van Andel Arena in Grand Rapids, Michigan, on March 28.

Trump narrowly won the Midwest state's 16 electoral votes in the 2016 presidential election.

The president recently declared a national emergency at the border in order to claim federal funding to build a wall there and fulfill a signature promise of his original campaign.

Both the House and Senate voted to block the declaration, but Trump vetoed that measure Friday. It was the first veto of his presidency."
"Donald Trump’s legal woes and the increasing public backlash against white supremacist violence are starting to crack the previously unshakeable conservative coalition. Much has already been made of increasing resistance from Republicans in the Senate. It was, as I predicted on Sunday, only a matter of time before conflict began to arise between the president and Fox News, the organization most responsible for propping him up.

Trump was particularly unhinged and erratic on twitter Sunday, even for his own low standards. His targets ranged from the Mueller probe to General Motors and the United Autoworkers Union, from John McCain to CNN and NPR. He retweeted multiple random conspiracy theorists and open racists. It was a remarkably disturbing display of paranoid anger from the president of the United States. Most noteworthy, however, were his outbursts against Fox News for what he perceived as its failure to stand up for some of his favorite personalities at the network.

Trump’s rants usually occur shortly before seriously bad news is about to drop: Trump’s favored strategy when facing a media crisis is to counterpunch, often in advance, as hard as he can to intimidate, distract. and control the narrative. There can be little doubt that Trump feels the walls closing in around him and is worried he has few allies left."
"Under a bridge connecting the U.S. with Mexico, dozens of migrant families cram into a makeshift camp set up by U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The families are there because permanent processing facilities have run out of room.

Seven hundred miles east, busload after busload of weary, bedraggled migrants crowd into the Catholic Charities Humanitarian Respite Center in McAllen, Texas. Organizers there are used to handling 200 to 300 migrants a day. Lately, the migrants have been arriving at a clip of around 800 a day, overflowing the respite center and straining city resources.

“It’s staggering,” McAllen City Manager Roy Rodriguez said. “Really, we’ve never seen anything like this before.”

Along the Texas border with Mexico – from El Paso to Eagle Pass to the Rio Grande Valley – masses of migrants have been crossing the border in unprecedented numbers, overwhelming federal holding facilities and sending local leaders and volunteers scrambling to deal with the relentless waves of people."
"President Donald Trump announced to reporters at the White House that the Islamic State in Syria would be ""gone by tonight.""

He made the announcement with some fanfare, unfurling a big piece of paper that he had carried out with him to Marine One. He then guided the press through two maps of Syria and Iraq showing the progress of the Islamic State’s defeat.I brought this out for you -- this is a map of everything in the red, this was on election night, in 2016, everything red is ISIS. When I took it over it was a mess now on the bottom it's the exact same. There is no red,"" Trump said, pointing his finger at the different parts of the map.

""In fact there is a tiny spot which will be gone by tonight,"" Trump said."

"President Donald Trump lashed out Friday at current and former aides who cooperated with special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation, insisting the deeply unflattering picture they painted of him and the White House was ``total bullsh**.''

In a series of angry tweets from rainy Palm Beach, Fla., Trump laced into those who, under oath, had shared with Mueller their accounts of how Trump tried numerous times to squash or influence the investigation and portrayed the White House as infected by a culture of lies, deceit and deception.

``Statements are made about me by certain people in the Crazy Mueller Report, in itself written by 18 Angry Democrat Trump Haters, which are fabricated & totally untrue,'' Trump wrote, adding that some were ``total bullsh** & only given to make the other person look good (or me to look bad).''

The attacks were a dramatic departure from the upbeat public face the White House had shown just 24 hours earlier, when Trump celebrated the report's findings as full exoneration and counselor Kellyanne Conway called it ``the best day'' for Trump's team since his election.While the president, according to people close to him, did feel vindicated by the report, he also felt betrayed by those who had painted him in an unflattering light — even though they were speaking under oath and had been directed by the White House to cooperate fully with Mueller's team.

The reaction was not entirely surprising and had been something staffers feared in the days ahead of the report's release as they wondered how Mueller might portray their testimony and whether the report might damage their relationships with Trump.
"
"I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2018 as Women’s History Month.  I call upon all Americans to observe this month and to celebrate International Women’s Day on March 8, 2018, with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand eighteen, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-second."
After a strong February, President Donald Trump's job approval rating has dipped four percentage points, to 39%, matching his rating from December at the start of the 35-day partial government shutdown.The latest poll was conducted March 1-10, just after Trump's second denuclearization summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un failed to produce an agreement. At the same time, special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into possible Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election was front and center as Trump's former personal attorney, Michael Cohen, provided potentially incriminating evidence during testimony on Capitol Hill. A weaker-than-expected jobs report toward the end of the polling period also may have contributed to a more tepid approval rating for the president, whose greatest perceived strength has been his handling of the economy.
"President Donald Trump has warned that Central American families are staging an ""invasion"" at the U.S.-Mexico border. He has threatened to take migrants to Democratic strongholds to punish political opponents. And his administration regularly complains about having to ""catch and release"" migrants.

At the same time, his administration has stopped using one of three family detention centers to hold parents and children and left almost 2,000 beds unused at the other two. It says it does not have the resources to transport migrants to the centers.

Immigrant advocates accuse the administration of closing off family detention to further the perception of a crisis.

The Karnes County Residential Center in Texas used to hold up to 800 parents and children at a time, who would usually be detained before an initial screening to judge whether they qualified for asylum."
"President Donald Trump blamed Democratic union leaders for General Motors' decision to shutter a plant in Lordstown, Ohio, eliminating about 1,700 jobs. 

The plant finished its final Chevrolet Cruze on March 6, but Trump had said little on the topic until this weekend. Trump tweeted Sunday that United Auto Workers union leader David Green needed to get his act together. ""Stop complaining and get the job done!"" 

Three days later, Trump was in Lima, Ohio, for his first visit to the Buckeye State since the midterm elections in November.

He once again attacked union leaders and claimed their dues were too high during a Wednesday visit to the Joint Systems Manufacturing Center, which makes the 1M Abrams tank.

The Enquirer takes a look at that claim and others Trump made during his 50-minute speech."
The president arrived at Mar-a-Lago at 3 p.m. Monday afternoon, according to a White House pool report. The Palm Beach Post reports that he's there with a number of advisors including "White House chief of staff John Kelly, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Labor Secretary Alex Acosta, national security adviser John Bolton, chief economic adviser Larry Kudlow, press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, and senior policy adviser Stephen Miller. First Lady Melania Trump arrived earlier in the day on a separate aircraft."
"President Trump, citing progress in U.S.-China trade talks, said he is looking at extending a deadline to raise tariffs and hoping to meet next month with Chinese leader Xi Jinping to complete a broad trade agreement.

His comments in the Oval Office followed four days of talks between U.S and Chinese negotiators, which Mr. Trump extended through the weekend. “We’re having good talks, and there’s a chance that something very exciting can happen,” he said.
"
"After months of intense speculation, Beto O'Rourke is entering the presidential race Thursday, marking an extraordinary rise from little-known El Paso congressman a few years ago to potentially formidable White House contender.

""Amy and I are happy to share with you that I'm running to serve you as the next president of the United States of America,"" O'Rourke says in a video with his wife released Thursday morning. ""This is a defining moment of truth for this country and for every single one of us.""

O'Rourke is making the announcement ahead of a three-day trip to Iowa that begins Thursday afternoon. In the video, O'Rourke says he will travel the country before returning to El Paso on March 30 for a kickoff rally.

""This is going to be a positive campaign that seeks to bring out the very best from every single one of us, that seeks to unite a very divided country,"" O'Rourke says in the announcement. ""We saw the power of this in Texas.""

"
"President Donald Trump on Sunday attacked the late Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) on Twitter for the second time this weekend, accusing him of sharing the infamous Russia dossier with the media and mocking him over his academic record at the U.S. Naval Academy.

The president falsely claimed recently unsealed court documents proved McCain sent the dossier, which was written by former British spy Christopher Steele and alleged Russia has salacious material about Trump that could be used for blackmail, to the FBI and media ahead of the 2016 election.

“He & the Dems, working together, failed (as usual),” Trump tweeted Sunday."
"California Gov. Jerry Brown on Friday extended the state National Guard’s participation in President Donald Trump’s border deployment by six months, a low-key announcement that was made without any of the acrimony that characterized his early negotiations with the federal government.

The California National Guard said in a press release that the mission will now run until the end of March. It had been scheduled to expire on Sunday.In April, Brown and Trump clashed fiercely and publicly over whether the Guard would participate and under what terms. Brown insisted that troops have no involvement in immigration enforcement or construction of any border barriers — a condition that the California Guard said will continue during the six-month extension."
"Turkish president was shocked that Trump went along with demand for Syrian withdrawal. The Associated Press is reporting that President Donald Trump’s decision to withdraw troops from Syria crystallized during a December 14 phone call with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. According to the news agency, the decision was “made hastily, without consulting his national security team or allies, and over strong objections from virtually everyone involved in the fight against the Islamic State group, according to U.S. and Turkish officials.”
One of the surprising details of the report is that Erdogan himself was taken aback at how successful he was in convincing Trump on the Syrian matter. Before the phone call, the consensus position that the Trump administration had reached, backed by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis, was that Trump would tell Erdogan to back off from his threats to attack Kurdish forces in Syria.

But during the phone conversation, Trump threw away the script and agreed with his Turkish counterpart. As AP relates, Trump started by reiterating the message of backing off. But then a change occurred:"
"Donald Trump cheered on the “beautiful cause” of anti-abortion protesters at their annual March for Life rally in Washington on Friday – but accidentally decried ordinary births when he flubbed his speech.
“Right now in a number of states the law allows a baby to be born from his or her mother’s womb in the ninth month,” said Trump, inadvertently describing how most people on the planet entered the world.
“It is wrong,” he said. “It has to change.”"
"resident Donald Trump accused Democrats of ""rage-fueled resistance"" in the battle over his Supreme Court nominee, seeking Thursday to use the blistering nomination process to motivate Republican voters in Minnesota.

Speaking at a packed civic center in Rochester, Trump praised Judge Brett Kavanaugh, whose nomination has faltered amid accusations of sexual misconduct. Of Democrats, he said, ""Their rage-fueled resistance is starting to backfire at a level nobody has ever seen before.""

Added Trump: ""Do we love it? We love it. Because people see what's happening and they don't like it.""

As Republicans face a tough midterm election cycle, Trump is trying to boost turnout. The GOP is hoping to fend off a Democratic effort to recapture the House of Representatives.

Trump landed in Minneapolis in the afternoon and headed to a fundraiser before traveling to Rochester, friendly territory in the traditionally liberal state, where Republicans are targeting two Democratic districts but playing defense in two GOP-held districts in the Minneapolis suburbs. "
"Donald Trump’s travel costs are on average a third more than Barack Obama’s monthly spend when he was president, according to a new analysis.

New figures show that Mr Trump's travel to the Mar-a-Lago resort alone cost American taxpayers $6.6 million (£4.9 million).

A report by the Wall Street Journal suggested that before July, the President's total travel costs average out around $1.5 million (£1.1 million) a month, some $500,000 (£371,945) more than Obama’s average spend."
"Trump, an early riser, usually spends the first 5 hours of the day in Executive Time. Each day's schedule places Trump in ""Location: Oval Office"" from 8 to 11 a.m.

But Trump, who often wakes before 6 a.m., is never in the Oval during those hours, according to six sources with direct knowledge.
Instead, he spends his mornings in the residence, watching TV, reading the papers, and responding to what he sees and reads by phoning aides, members of Congress, friends, administration officials and informal advisers."
By all accounts, the Legal Orientation Program (LOP) has been a smashing success for the federal government. The program — which provides rudimentary legal guidance to people facing deportation — saves taxpayer money, speeds the court process, and has been praised by judges, lawyers, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement. But the Trump administration has ordered the program shut down, at least temporarily, as of April 30. The administration says it’s pausing the program to study its effectiveness. To Trump critics, it is the latest in a series of changes to the immigration court system aimed at speeding up a “deportation machine.”
"President Donald Trump’s long-expected ban on transgender service members will finally begin next month, the Pentagon announced late Tuesday night in a department memorandum. 

While the president’s initial tweet in July 2017 demanded transgender individuals not “serve in any capacity in the U.S. military,” the directive requires most trans service members to use the gender assigned at their birth. The order is, of course, a huge blow to the roughly 14,700 trans service members currently serving. What’s more, it will also “likely force the military to eventually discharge transgender individuals who need hormone treatments,” the Associated Press reported.

“If you’re transgender and are being forced to live in your birth sex, you have to directly deny who you are,” says Shannon Minter, legal director for the National Center for Lesbian Rights. Minter also represents a group of transgender service members who sued the government over this policy in federal district court in Washington, DC. "
"President Donald Trump spoke with Libyan general Khalifa Haftar Monday, praising his role in fighting terrorism and securing Libya's vast oil resources even as Haftar's troops continue their offensive against the UN and US-backed government in the Libyan capital of Tripoli.

Trump ""recognized Field Marshal Haftar's significant role in fighting terrorism and securing Libya's oil resources, and the two discussed a shared vision for Libya's transition to a stable, democratic political system,"" the White House said Friday in its official readout of the call.

The statement made no mention of Haftar's offensive on Tripoli, and Trump's praise for the rogue Libyan general signals a departure from previous administration statements condemning Haftar's march on the capital."
"Home construction in the U.S. is poised for a turnaround, economists and lenders say, as mortgage rates pull back from recent highs that curbed building in March.

Work started on 1.14 million homes last month, a drop of 0.3% from February, according to data published Friday by the U.S. Census Bureau and the Department of Housing and Urban Development. While such numbers are frequently volatile and subject to revision, they were well below the estimates of 1.23 million starts and 4.8% growth from economists surveyed by FactSet. Building permits tumbled 1.7% to 1.27 million.

Now that home-loan rates have dropped to the lowest in more than a year after the Federal Reserve paused on interest-rate hikes, however, the long-term outlook for home buyers — and, as a result, construction — is growing brighter."
"With a one-paragraph memorandum on the day of his inauguration, Donald Trump took action that would redefine how presidential elections are waged.

“[P]lease accept this letter as my Form 2 for the 2020 election,” Trump wrote the Federal Election Commission on Jan. 20, 2017.

What’s a “Form 2”? Bureaucratic parlance for a politician declaring one’s candidacy. And doing so allowed Trump to legally raise campaign money for an election nearly four years away.

Raise money Trump has. Unlike any president in U.S. history. Starting the first day he took office — something no other president has done.

The result is a permanent presidential campaign in which the free world’s leader at times appears more occupied with running for re-election than running the country:"
"U.S. President Donald Trump said on Thursday he did not plan to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping before a March 1 deadline set by the two countries to achieve a trade deal.sked during an event in the Oval Office whether there would be a meeting before the deadline, Trump said: “No.”

When asked whether there would be a meeting in the next month or so, Trump said: “Not yet. Maybe. Probably too soon. Probably too soon.”

The remarks confirmed comments from administration officials who said the two men were unlikely to meet before the deadline, dampening hopes of a quick trade pact and sparking a drop in U.S stock markets.

Late last year during a dinner between Trump and Xi in Argentina, the two men agreed to take a 90-day hiatus in their trade war to give their teams time to negotiate an agreement."
"In the time Donald Trump has been in the White House:

The economy added 4.6 million jobs, including nearly half a million in manufacturing.
Economic growth quickened, but not as much as Trump promised.
The number of regulatory restrictions stopped growing.
Carbon dioxide emissions stopped falling, and have increased 1.4 percent under Trump.
Illegal border crossings have gone up.
Only 22,774 refugees resettled in the U.S. last year — down 76 percent from 2016.
The trade deficit increased 20 percent.
The federal debt rose by $1.7 trillion; annual deficits accelerated.
After-tax corporate profits soared to the highest on record."
"The Great Recession officially ended in June 2009, six months into former President Obama’s first term. The economy continued to shed jobs until the following March. Manufacturing was particularly hard hit, with almost 2.3 million manufacturing jobs—some 1 in 6—lost between January 2008 and March 2010.

As is the case during recoveries, jobs bounced back, with seasonally adjusted nonfarm employment expanding almost 12% from March 2010 until January 2017, when President Obama handed over the presidency to Donald Trump.

But during the same period, manufacturing employment grew only 7.7% with manufacturing payrolls virtually flat in the last 21 months of the Obama administration."
"WHEN President Donald Trump tweeted “We want free, fair and SMART TRADE,” on March 1st, trade-watchers groaned. Later that day, after months of back-and-forth between the protectionists and the globalists in the White House, he appeared to deliver the tariffs he has long been promising. He announced tariffs of 25% on imports of steel and 10% on those of aluminium. He promised protection “for a long time”, adding “you’ll have to grow your industries, that’s all I’m asking.” According to the New York Times, he told the assembled executives from steel and aluminium firms whom he met before the announcement that he did not intend to exclude any country from the tariffs.

Mr Trump’s bid to nurse America’s steel and aluminium industries to health could benefit some workers. There is a global glut of both metals, largely driven by an enormous expansion of China’s production capacity since the early 2000s. That created trade flows to America that over 420 separate anti-dumping and countervailing duties could not fully stem.
"
"Nebraska's unemployment rate remained unchanged last month at 2.8%, and it's unclear whether any jobs lost to spring floodwaters will markedly change that figure soon.

The preliminary March rate was a tenth of a point under the year-ago figure of 2.9%, the Nebraska Labor Department said in a news release Friday. It also was well below March's national figure of 3.8%, which is down two-tenths of a point from 4% a year ago. It's the eighth straight month the Nebraska figure's been 2.8%.

Department spokeswoman Grace Johnson said she couldn't comment on whether a rise was expected in the wake of the ""bomb cyclone"" last month. Early estimates indicate the blizzard in western and central Nebraska and flooding in eastern Nebraska caused nearly $1.4 billion in damage to property, farm operations and infrastructure."
"Remember last month, when Facebook said it stored a whole bunch of passwords in plain text when they should have been encrypted, potentially affecting ""tens of thousands"" of Instagram users? Yeah, it quietly updated that blog post Thursday to say it's more like ""millions of Instagram users.""In the blog post first unveiled last month, Facebook said it would tell ""hundreds of millions of Facebook Lite users"" and ""tens of millions of other Facebook users"" that their passwords were stored in an unencrypted database available to 20,000 Facebook employees. Now, a few more Instagram users get to join the fun. Facebook said it found ""no evidence to date that anyone internally abused or improperly accessed the passwords,"" though given the site's very shaky past year, that's not too reassuring.

The news comes just a few hours after Facebook told Business Insider that it collected email contacts from 1.5 million users who signed up after May 2016 and ""unintentionally uploaded"" them to Facebook. The addresses were collected when users typed in their email passwords to verify the addresses they'd signed up with. Facebook didn't tell these users their email contacts would be imported into the site, but there was no way to opt out of the upload or cancel it once it began. Facebook said those contacts were ""used to improve Facebook's ad targeting,"" Business Insider writes in yet another reassuring addition to Facebook's track record"
"New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a freshman Democrat on the House Oversight Committee and one of the most famous members of Congress, said she’ll support a resolution that would look into whether the House of Representatives should impeach President Donald Trump.

Her comments, which she tweeted on Thursday, came in the aftermath of special counsel Robert Mueller’s report, which didn’t conclude whether Trump committed a crime but also did “not exonerate” the president. Ocasio-Cortez is the leading voice of the progressive left, which would like to see the president impeached, and is at odds with Democratic leadership’s message that impeachment proceedings are not happening in the foreseeable future."
"Robert Mueller's report states that investigators were unable to establish that President Donald Trump ""directed or aided"" Michael Cohen's false testimony to Congress about the Trump Tower Moscow dealings, putting a disputed BuzzFeed story back in the limelight.

In January, BuzzFeed reported that Trump had directed Cohen to lie to Congress about those negotiations, citing ""two federal law enforcement officials involved in an investigation of the matter,"" in order to minimize links between Trump and the proposed Moscow project. The report claimed Cohen was told to provide the false impression that talks on the proposed construction project had ended before they actually did.
In an unprecedented response from Mueller's office, spokesperson Peter Carr disputed the BuzzFeed report, saying its ""description of specific statements to the Special Counsel's Office, and characterization of documents and testimony obtained by this office, regarding Michael Cohen’s Congressional testimony are not accurate.""
"
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo dismissed a statement from a senior North Korean foreign ministry official saying they no longer want him involved if talks with the U.S. resume. Pompeo said he is still in charge of the U.S. negotiating team and that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has promised to denuclearize "half a dozen times." The exchange comes as Russian President Vladimir Putin is set to meet with Kim Jong Un. VOA's Diplomatic Correspondent Cindy Saine reports from the State Department.
"Donald John Trump is the 45th and current President of the United States; he took office January 20, 2017. Previously, he was a real estate mogul, and a former reality TV star. 

Born in Queens, New York, in 1946, Trump became involved in large, profitable building projects in Manhattan. In 1980, he opened the Grand Hyatt New York, which made him the city's best-known developer. 

In 2004, Trump began starring in the hit NBC reality series The Apprentice, which also spawned the offshoot The Celebrity Apprentice. Trump turned his attention to politics, and in 2015 he announced his candidacy for president of the United States on the Republican ticket. "
"The Rasmussen Reports daily Presidential Tracking Poll for Friday shows that 49% of Likely U.S. Voters approve of President Trump’s job performance. Fifty-one percent (51%) disapprove.

The latest figures include 36% who Strongly Approve of the job Trump is doing and 42% who Strongly Disapprove. This gives him a Presidential Approval Index rating of -6. (see trends)."
"President Donald Trump directed his longtime attorney Michael Cohen to lie to Congress about negotiations to build a Trump Tower in Moscow, according to two federal law enforcement officials involved in an investigation of the matter.

Trump also supported a plan, set up by Cohen, to visit Russia during the presidential campaign, in order to personally meet President Vladimir Putin and jump-start the tower negotiations. “Make it happen,” the sources said Trump told Cohen."
"At the start of a new period of divided government and amid the longest government shutdown in U.S. history, President Donald Trump’s popularity found a new floor in January.

In the latest data from Morning Consult’s Trump Tracker, which measures the president’s approval rating in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, a record low of 40 percent of voters approved of Trump and a record-high 55 percent disapproved, resulting in the worst monthly net rating of his presidency. The latest data is based on 156,104 surveys conducted Jan. 1-31.The nadir was largely fueled by record opposition outside of the president’s base: 88 percent of Democrats and 56 percent of independents disapproved of Trump during the first month of 2019, the most of any month since his Jan. 20, 2017, inauguration.

Trump’s base remained fairly solid, with 83 percent of Republicans approving of the president. But that share of support among Republicans was its lowest since September, when Washington was roiled by the Supreme Court confirmation proceedings for Brett Kavanaugh."
"US President Donald Trump, boasting of good progress in first-day trade talks with China, said on Thursday that he and Chinese President Xi Jinping planned to meet soon to work out the toughest issues in the negotiation.
Although he said that Wednesday’s first meetings between American and Chinese negotiators had gone well, Trump added in a morning tweet that “No final deal will be made until my friend President Xi, and I, meet in the near future to discuss and agree on some of the long-standing and more difficult points. Very comprehensive transaction.”"
"When Donald Trump took the oath of office two years ago, nobody knew what sort of president he would be. Plenty of idiotic optimists, myself included, hoped that he might ditch his race-baiting demagoguery in favor of more centrist policies. We assumed (again, idiotically) that his raw need for adulation might kick in, and compensate for his lack of a moral compass.

But the office of the presidency hasn’t changed Trump; it has merely amplified his flaws. As a businessman-turned-career-criminal, Trump was greedy, impulsive, inept, deceitful, cruel and selfish.

As president, he has forged his administration as a kleptocratic syndicate, and lashed out at any democratic institution that seeks to hold him accountable: law enforcement and intelligence agencies, the Fourth estate, judges, Congress, even his own former loyalists."
"Seeking a shutdown solution, President Donald Trump announced Saturday that in exchange for $5.7 million for his promised U.S.-Mexico border wall, he would offer three years of protection for ""Dreamers,"" or young people brought to America illegally as children.

But Democrats dismissed the offer as non-starter, calling on Trump to re-open the government first.

The President also proposed the ""strategic implementation of physical barriers"" along the southern border, saying specifically that the proposal is ""not a concrete wall.""He also announced millions in proposed funding for humanitarian assistnace, new drug detection technology, additional border agents and law enforcement agents and the creation of new immigration judge teams."
"Yielding to mounting pressure and growing disruption, President Donald Trump and congressional leaders on Friday reached a short-term deal to reopen the government for three weeks while negotiations continue over the president’s demands for money to build his long-promised wall at the U.S.-Mexico border.

Trump announced the agreement to break the 35-day impasse as intensifying delays at the nation’s airports and widespread disruptions brought new urgency to efforts to resolve the standoff."
"This is an unbiased comparison of the political positions and policies of Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, candidates for president from the Democratic and Republican parties respectively.
On many issues, the candidates' positions align with the political platform of their party — Clinton is pro-choice, Trump is pro-life; Clinton supports the DREAM Act and a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, while Trump wants to deport all undocumented immigrants and build a wall on the Mexican border; Clinton wants to expand gun control legislation, Trump does not; Clinton wants to raise taxes on high-income households while Trump wants to cut taxes for all income brackets.

On other issues, the lines are more blurry. Clinton has served as Secretary of State in the Obama administration, where she was responsible for orchestrating U.S. foreign policy. Trump has criticized not only Clinton's role as Secretary of State, but also questioned key foreign policy elements like NATO and U.S. presence in Japan."
Hillary Clinton says her "skin crawled" as Donald Trump loomed over her on stage in their presidential debate, as she reads an excerpt from her new memoir about the election.
"Of all Donald Trump’s favorite talking points on the 2016 campaign trail, there were few he revisited as frequently as his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton’s emails. It turns out his fixation on the messages persisted behind the scenes.
According to details revealed Thursday in special counsel Robert Mueller’s partially-redacted report, Trump repeatedly pushed his staff and associates to find the emails that Clinton had deleted from the private server she’d used while secretary of state. Trump’s insistence spurred a series of feverish, vigilante hunts involving potential hackers, Senate staffers, the dark web and foreign intelligence agencies."
"Pete Buttigieg is on a roll of late. And that extends to his spot-on analysis of why Democrats -- and Hillary Clinton in particular -- lost the 2016 election to President Donald Trump.
""We spent, I think, way too much time on our side talking about him,"" Buttigieg said in an interview with ""The Breakfast Club,"" a New York City-based radio show, which ran Tuesday morning. ""Our whole message was don't vote for him because he is terrible. And even because he is, that is not a message."""
"The last two presidential elections have proven how vital social media is to becoming president of the United States. So I thought it would be fun to compare the online presence of the two candidates currently vying for that job. Here are the stats I collected on August 5, 2016.Let’s start with searches, specifically Google. We know that when people want to learn about something – or someone – Google is by far the most popular search engine.
The total number of Google results returned when I typed in “Donald Trump” were 228 million. I received 145 million when I did the same for “Hillary Clinton.” Interesting, but what really matters is what the top three search results are, because the first three spots in a Google search garner the most clicks."
The justice system cannot please everyone, but it at least aims to provide some sort of closure. That’s why one of the least satisfying outcomes of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report on Russian interference in the election, as summarized by Attorney General William Barr, is its approach to the question of whether President Donald Trump obstructed justice.Though this message was delivered in a very different way, it is reminiscent not of Watergate or any of the other past presidential standards that have become common analogues, but instead of former FBI Director James Comey’s 2016 recommendation that Hillary Clinton not be charged with a crime in connection with her use of a personal email server while secretary of state. In both cases, Justice Department officials found evidence both for and against a crime. In both cases, they determined that prosecuting a case wasn’t tenable. And in both cases, the outcome is likely to enrage nearly half of the American electorate, splitting the country rather than providing a reconciliation.
"Sen. Bernie Sanders said Friday that he hasn’t spoken to Hillary Clinton for advice on the 2020 race, and frankly, he isn’t interested.
“Hillary and I have fundamental differences and that’s just what it is,” Sanders (I-Vt.) said on ""The View.""Multiple news outlets have reported that Clinton has met with 2020 hopefuls to advise on the race. But when asked whether he plans to meet with the former Democratic nominee, Sanders flatly said: “I suspect not.”

When the Vermont independent announced his candidacy last month, he joined a crowded and diverse field running the gamut on Democratic ideology. Sanders’ defense of democratic socialism has been a punching back for allies of President Donald Trump and other conservatives, but he enters 2020 largely free of the characterizations as an idealistic fringe candidate of three years ago."
"President Donald Trump said in an interview that aired Friday he hopes Attorney General William Barr will “do what’s fair” with regards to opening investigations to perceived crimes by his 2016 opponent Hillary Clinton, former FBI Director James Comey, former intelligence chief James Clapper and former CIA Director John Brennan.

Trump, who offered Clinton something of an olive branch after his election victory and pledged to move forward instead of demanding another investigation into her use of a personal email server as secretary of State, asserted in an interview on Fox Business Network's “Mornings with Maria” he’d been treated “very unfairly” by investigators probing his ties to Russia."
"On Saturday, July 2, 2016, Hillary Clinton walked into FBI headquarters and submitted to a three and a half hour interview about her handling of emails and classified information while she was serving as Secretary of State. At the time, Donald Trump was hardly in a mood to give her credit for voluntarily cooperating.
It was never likely that Hillary Clinton would be indicted, but she was willing to take the risk of an interview with the FBI without being forced to do it by a subpoena or court order. If she had lied or the investigators were not satisfied with her candor, she could have faced criminal charges.
I have no idea when or how the Office of Special Counsel will share their findings, but one thing I do know is that Donald Trump refused to meet with its investigators or to submit to an interview. He had his lawyers carefully craft answers to written questions, but he followed their advice not to show up in person and expose himself to additional criminal liability.
"
Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump were bitter rivals in the 2016 presidential election race, with millions believing the former First Lady would take office. In a shocking twist, the American public voted for Mr Trump over the senator, who has since bowed out of the public eye. This upset dissuaded her from running again but there is one final factor determining whether Mrs Clinton will embark on another campaign trail. She has said she is waiting for findings from the Mueller investigation, which has been ongoing since Mr Trump took office
Donald Trump was an unusual candidate, a person trying to be elected, because he had no prior political experience. Instead, he was a billionaire who delivered a message of success at making money and running businesses, arguing that other politicians were not successful and had put the United States in trouble. His campaign slogan, 'Make American Great Again', demonstrated how he wanted to change American politics, which he viewed as a failure.He campaigned for the nomination, the decision about who would be the candidate, for the Republican Party. Trump gained popularity despite a dozen other Republicans trying to be president, partially by making unusual (and sometimes very shocking) statements that the news media covered heavily. For example, Trump attacked illegal Mexican immigrants, claiming that they brought drugs and crime to the United States, and his biggest campaign promise was to build a wall between the United States and Mexico.
It's been two and a half years since the hellscape that was the 2016 presidential election, but Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump have not stopped bickering over TwitterOn Tuesday, Clinton subtweeted Trump with a classic teen movie quote.Trump, ignoring the fact that it's 2019 and the election is long over, mocked Clinton for not running in 2020."Aw-shucks, does that mean I won't get to run against her again?" the president tweeted. "She will be sorely missed!" 
"his election has been particularly noisy.
But when all the Twitter storms and heated exchanges (maybe) fade away after Nov. 8, the issues that affect real voters will remain.
With that in mind, we set out to create a cheat sheet on where each candidate stands on the issues voters care about most. The issues we chose to highlight come from the top 10 issues voters said were ""very important"" to their vote, according to a 2016 poll from the Pew Research Center.

Those issues are, in order: The economy, terrorism, foreign policy, health care, gun policy, immigration, social security, education, Supreme Court appointments and the treatment of racial and ethnic minorities.

We've tracked where the major candidates — Hillary Clinton, Donald Trump, Gary Johnson and Jill Stein — fall on each issue. We chose these four candidates because they are on the ballot in most states."
"Last night, Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump faced one another in the last official debate of the 2016 election. Now, it is up to the American people to decide who will become our next president, including the 34.6 million people with disabilities that are eligible to vote. When we include our families alongside voters with disabilities, that number rises to 62.7 million eligible voters, nearly one fourth of the total electorate (Rutgers University).
As people with disabilities, we want to live independent lives and contribute our talent and energy to the future success of our great nation. The 56 million Americans with disabilities make remarkable and valuable contributions to our communities. Despite these contributions and despite our numbers, Americans with disabilities continue to face discrimination in many arenas including employment, housing, transportation, health care, and education.

To benefit from the skills and abilities of people with disabilities, candidates for public office must address these disparities and set forth a vision to ensure the civil rights of people with disabilities and our full inclusion in society."
"Hillary Clinton reacted incredulously Thursday to President Donald Trump's assertion that she conspired with the Russians to interfere in the 2016 presidential election.

""Seriously, you asked Russia to hack me on national television,"" Clinton responded on Twitter.

The former secretary of State was reacting to an NBC News story that quoted Trump as saying at a Wednesday night campaign rally that ""there was collusion between Hillary, the Democrats and Russia.""

""There was a lot of collusion with them and Russia and lots of other people,"" Trump said at the Pennsylvania rally, without offering any details.

Clinton's response was referring to Trump's comments at a July 2016 news conference in which he asked Russia to hack Clinton's emails from her time as secretary of State and make them public"
"President Trump repeatedly urged his election campaign to dig up Hillary Clinton’s missing emails during the 2016 election — while Republican operatives mounted a years-long hunt for his Democratic rival’s private missives, according to special counsel Robert Mueller.
After famously saying at a July 2016 rally that he hoped Russia would “find the 30,000 emails” Clinton said she’d deleted from her private server, then-candidate Trump also asked people involved his campaign to find the messages, according to the newly-released report into Mueller’s probe.
“Michael Flynn — who later served as National Security Advisor in the Trump Administration — recalled that Trump made this request repeatedly,” the report states."
The saga of G.O.P. operative Peter Smith’s ill-fated attempts to uncover the 33,000 e-mails deleted from Hillary Clinton’s server was revealed shortly after his death in 2017, and depicts an isolated and increasingly desperate researcher’s scramble to fulfill a task he believed would benefit Donald Trump. But according to Robert Mueller’s report, the directive to track down the missing correspondence came straight from the top. Though Mueller found no evidence that the Trump campaign had “initiated or directed Smith’s efforts,” he did note that the then-candidate asked several associates, most notably then-adviser Michael Flynn, to find a way to obtain the e-mails—and that they complied. According to the report, Flynn “recalled that Trump made this request repeatedly,” prompting Flynn to contact “multiple people” in an attempt to do his boss’s bidding.
"The American presidential election is the longest, most expensive and arguably most watched election on the entire planet.
While the complexities of the American electoral system are not necessarily any worse than those of South Africa, or Mexico or the UK, the amount of money spent prognosticating the election can almost overwhelm anyone who is not intimately familiar with the intricacies and nuances of the system.
Likely the most difficult part of American elections to understand is the flood of polls that come out predicting which candidate is ahead, behind or more likely to win."
"Donald Trump has gotten a great deal of attention this year for his harsh rhetoric about trade and lost jobs. When his campaign has delved into more specific policies, however, he doesn’t offer much that’s different from Hillary Clinton. They both oppose new and old trade agreements, and they both want to use domestic trade laws and international dispute mechanisms more aggressively. Until now, the “debate” over trade has been mostly about trust, with Clinton accusing Trump of being a hypocritical “outsourcer” and Trump accusing Clinton of secretly supporting trade deals she publicly opposes.
With just a few weeks left in the campaign, the candidates have finally stumbled upon divergent concrete policy proposals regarding trade. Unfortunately, both proposals amount to nothing more than meaningless fluff meant to sound like thoughtful reforms."
"Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign chairman argued Thursday that special counsel Robert Mueller's highly anticipated report lays out a ""devastating case"" against President Trump that Congress should act upon.
John Podesta wrote in a Washington Post op-ed that Mueller's partially redacted report shows that Trump campaign operatives knew in advance about releases of stolen Democratic emails obtained by WikiLeaks from Russian intelligence sources.
Podesta argued that Mueller's findings were coupled with a clear call for lawmakers to act, as the sitting president cannot be indicted under Justice Department policy but Congress has authority to pursue obstruction of justice investigations."
"Donald Trump repeatedly requested his presidential campaign to unearth Hillary Clinton’s 30,000 missing emails, setting in motion a frenzied search that was detailed in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report.
The effort led to discussions about working with foreign intelligence agencies, hackers and the dark web, according to the report released Thursday.
Political And Business Visitors At Trump Tower During President-Elect's Transition To The White House
Michael Flynn in Trump Tower in New York on Dec. 5, 2016.Photographer: John Angelillo/Pool via Bloomberg
Michael Flynn, a campaign aide who later became the president’s first national security adviser, led a 2016 effort to get the emails, at Trump’s request, the report said. The goal was to damage his Democratic rival"
"When news first broke in July 2017 about the now-famous Trump Tower meeting, it looked like just the caught-in-the-act moment critics thought could ensnare Donald Trump.
The 20-minute gathering in Manhattan seemed to have everything: Donald Trump Jr. meeting with a Kremlin-linked lawyer. The supposed promise of dirt on Hillary Clinton. The president personally dictating parts of a statement that smacked of cover-up.
Collusion with Russia, obstruction of justice — Robert Mueller’s twin targets — all seemingly taking place right inside Trump’s signature landmark, just a few months before the election."
"Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s partially-redacted report of his investigation was loaded with glimpses into TrumpWorld's vast corruption. And one of the most shocking is that back in 2016, when Trump urged Russia to hack Hillary Clinton during the election, Kremlin operatives were all ears and moved to attack Clinton just five hours later.

Russia breached dozens of Democratic National Committee and Democratic Congressional Committee computers and stole hundreds of gigabytes of data from the organizations during the presidential elections. In a July 2016 press conference, held after the DNC revealed that it had been compromised by Russian hackers, Trump told reporters that he hoped the cybercriminals had obtained the thousands of emails deleted from the candidate's private email server.

""They probably have her 33,000 emails that she lost and deleted,"" he said. ""Because you’d see some beauties there."""
There’s only one number that really matters on the night of the US presidential election, and that’s 270: the number of electoral college votes a candidate needs to claim the White House. Pollsters give Hillary Clinton the better chance of victory over Donald Trump on 8 November, but here are some other key statistics to keep in mind as you watch the results roll in.
"Polls opened Tuesday after Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trumpcrisscrossed the presidential battlefield in a final effort to maximize turnout from their supporters, providing a frantic close to an already volatile race.

Mrs. Clinton used her powerful bench of surrogates to stretch her reach and made a joint appearance with two of her strongest, President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, in Philadelphia.
"
"Social Security is a major issue in the presidential election. First of all, the vast majority of Americans either collect Social Security benefits or plan to do so in the future. And it's no secret that Social Security isn't exactly in the best financial shape right now. Here's what you need to know about both candidates' plans for Social Security and what's likely to actually happen.

Donald Trump's stance on Social Security
In contrast to most other republicans, Donald Trump doesn't want to cut Social Security. However, his solution to Social Security's funding problem isn't to raise taxes or reduce benefits for the rich. Instead, Trump feels that his tax cuts will stimulate the economy to a point where Social Security's problem will take care of itself."
Before the emergence of Barack Obama, the idea of an African-American President was less a matter of political reality than it was the stuff of fantasy. With apologies to anticipatory figures from Frederick Douglass to Jesse Jackson, a black President resided for decades in the realm of popular culture, a figment of the liberal imagination.There were many such exhibits. Take the stereotype-flecked movie musical, released during the Depression, called “Rufus Jones for President.” Ethel Waters, in the role of the protective mother, urges her little boy, played by seven-year-old Sammy Davis, Jr., to endure the taunts of the local bullies and aspire to greatness. “You’s goin’ to be President!” she tells him. “Me?” Rufus asks, incredulous. The mother falls into a reverie. She sees a crowd carrying placards that read “Down with the Reds, Put in the Blacks,” and the boy is soon dressed in a sharp suit, speaking before the Senate. Such films—all the way to “Head of State,” in which Chris Rock plays a local pol who ends up on Mt. Rushmore—mapped the yawning distance between the wish and its fulfillment.
"The election campaign in the United States is entering its decisive phase. Both candidates are fighting it out on every medium from newspapers to television – and social media is no exception.
So who’s top on Twitter? According to the latest Twiplomacy analysis, Donald Trump is in the lead, at least in terms of followers and engagement.
As of July this year, @realDonaldTrump had 10,267,655 followers, placing him in 177th position among the global Twitterati. If elected tomorrow, he would be the third most followed world leader. (Pope Francis has 30 million followers and India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi has 20 million.)
With her 7,765,519 followers @HillaryClinton is in 275th position worldwide and would be the fourth most followed world leader."
"THE CHARACTER ISSUE IS back, with a vengeance. And the nation is likely to see it play out even more intensely in the second presidential debate between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump on Sunday and for the remainder of the race for the White House.
Both Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump are focusing anew on what's wrong with the other side in terms of values, morality and judgment. There is some discussion of policy, but that's being crowded out by the personal attacks, which guarantee media attention and have dominated news coverage."
"The two candidates faced off Wednesday, October 19, at the University of Nevada in Las Vegas for 90 minutes, no commercial breaks, in a debate moderated by Fox News anchor Chris Wallace. The debate covered debt and entitlements, immigration, the economy, the Supreme Court, foreign hot spots, and ""fitness to be president.""

The stakes were high for both candidates. After months of running on controversial positions on immigration, race relations, and foreign policy, Trump entered the third debate embroiled in multiple sexual assault allegations and trailing Clinton in the polls after two poor debate performances.

Having co-moderated the three Fox News Republican primary debates (two of which Trump attended), Wallace already had experience with the Republican nominee on a debate stage. He once even told Trump that his budget proposals ""don’t add up"" — fact-checking him in real time."
"President Donald Trump pushed for obtaining Democratic rival Hillary Clinton’s private emails and his campaign was in touch with allies who were pursuing them, according to the redacted special counsel’s report released Thursday.
On July 27, 2016, Trump famously said at a campaign rally, “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing,” referring to emails that Clinton said she had deleted from her private server. She had used a private account during her tenure as secretary of state."
After watching the second televised debate between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton in October 2016—a battle between the first female candidate nominated by a major party and an opponent who’d just been caught on tape bragging about sexually assaulting women—Maria Guadalupe, an associate professor of economics and political science at INSEAD, had an idea. Millions had tuned in to watch a man face off against a woman for the first set of co-ed presidential debates in American history. But how would their perceptions change, she wondered, if the genders of the candidates were switched? She pictured an actress playing Trump, replicating his words, gestures, body language, and tone verbatim, while an actor took on Clinton’s role in the same way. What would the experiment reveal about male and female communication styles, and the differing standards by which we unconsciously judge them?
"The United States goes to the polls to choose a new president after Barack Obama completes his second constitutionally mandated tenure. America’s first African American president rose to the presidency on the back of the Democratic party.
Back in 2008, Obama (then the Democratic Party’s candidate) came up against Senator John McCain who was on the ticket of the Republican party. Obama took over from a Republican president George Bush, who had also served two terms (2000 – 2008).
As part of Africanews’ coverage of the upcoming polls, we present a profile of the two main candidates in the 2016 race to the White House. This piece looks at five perspectives of each personality. Their background, academics, public service and business life, family life and social media reach."
"Conservative political pundit, and at one time avid Donald Trump supporter, Ann Coulter said she now so disapproves of the president's handling of the situation at the U.S.-Mexico border that she believes Hillary Clinton or former President Barack Obama would do a better job than the president.
Coulter bashed Trump in an episode of Firing Line With Margaret Hoover set to air Friday night on PBS. Hoover asked Coulter to explain how she would characterize the crisis at the southern border.
“How about this—worse than it would ever be under any Democrat. Worse than it would be under Hillary,” Coulter said.
Hoover, also a conservative, appeared somewhat surprised by that answer and reiterated her question."
"The White House Thursday ripped the “breathless” media coverage of the Russia collusion “hoax” and said now that it’s over, journalists should turn their attention on Obama-era scandals.

“While the establishment media has breathlessly covered this partisan witch hunt for nearly two years, they refuse to cover the real scandals that plagued the previous Democrat administration,” said an official.

The campaign manager of the Trump 2020 reelection campaign, Brad Parscale, added, ""Now that the collusion and obstruction conspiracy theories have been exposed for the pathetic hoaxes they always were, the Obama-era [Department of Justice] and FBI must answer for their misdeeds and the scam that they perpetrated against the American people. Justice will be served.”"
"Donald Trump swept last week's primaries with commanding margins, looking for the first time like a solid front-runner rather than a plurality favorite. With his opponents' room for strategic maneuvering dwindling rapidly—rendering tomorrow's Indiana primary a make-or-break win for Cruz—Trump must turn his attention to the general election.
Trump's primary performance has been remarkable. He has leveraged his reputation, his celebrity, and the sheer force of his personality to convince more than ten million Americans that he would be a great president. By June, that number will likely fall between twelve and thirteen million. Every poll of Trump's supporters suggests that their enthusiasm is real and their commitment unwavering."
"The FBI failed to respond to an October 2018 Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request seeking more information about secretive communications in late 2016 between a top Hillary Clinton campaign lawyer and the bureau's then-general counsel, according to the transparency group Judicial Watch.

Additionally, the group said, the FBI has ignored September 2018 FOIA requests concerning bureau communications with, and payments to, British ex-spy Christopher Steele -- who authored the infamous anti-Trump dossier.

In response, Judicial Watch announced Tuesday it has filed lawsuits seeking the full release of all relevant documents. The flurry of litigation comes just days before Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report is set to be publicly released, with some redactions."
"The earliest viewer poll following the third and final debate of the presidential election campaign appears to indicate yet another debate victory for Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump, who overshadowed one of his strongest debate performances with a refusal to declare he’d accept the election results should he lose.

According to a CNN/ORC instant poll after Wednesday night’s debate wrapped, 52 per cent of debate watchers surveyed decided Clinton won the debate, compared to 39 per cent for Trump.

A CNN focus group of undecided voters also tipped the scales in favour of Clinton, with 11 voters saying the former Secretary of State won the debate and nine other saying it was the real estate magnate who won. One participant was undecided on who won."
Science is slowly coming into focus in the US presidential campaign.Although neither Republican Donald Trump nor Democrat Hillary Clinton has emphasized core research issues, the candidates — and their parties — are beginning to flesh out their positions on climate change, education, biomedical research and other topics that involve the scientific community.Trump’s pick of Indiana Governor Mike Pence as his running mate on 15 July signalled a sharp turn towards the Republican party’s conservative base. Pence, a self-described Christian conservative, has questioned the existence of climate change, waffled on evolution and criticized President Barack Obama for supporting embryonic-stem-cell research. His new role aligns with the hard-line policy platform adopted at the Republican convention, where Trump officially became the party’s nominee on 19 July.
Donald Trump, the man, the legend… the hairpiece. Last time I wrote about the Donald, it was to flag up a 3D-printed butt plug designed to protest his comments conflating Mexicans and rapists. It’s fair to say a lot of Trumpers and Trumpet.So this time, I’m referring purely to the data. Trump is doing well in a lot of Republican primary polling. If he wins the nomination, it’s likely that his rival for the presidency will be Hillary Clinton.
"I have been following Hillary Clinton's career since the mid-1990s as a journalist in Washington reporting on the first term of Bill Clinton's presidency.
The Hillary Clinton I knew then would not have said publicly she had been ""shivved"" by the former head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, James Comey.
She referred to Comey's handling of the investigation into her use of a private email server as secretary of state, in particular the letter written by Comey days before the election re opening the investigation: ""He did shiv me, yeah … we also know that opponents of mine, like former mayor Rudy Giuliani, knew something was coming.
""So there was clearly an effort to derail my campaign at the end."""
"eter Hart, the Democratic pollster who helps conduct the Wall Street Journal’s running surveys, offered a stark assessment this week: “America is on the path to electing the most unpopular president since 1948.”
He’s not wrong. 56 percent of registered voters see Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton negatively. That makes her the second least popular candidate left running for the highest office in the land. Luckily for Democrats, the least popular candidate is the Republican front-runner, Donald Trump, viewed negatively by 65 percent of respondents."
"Election day looms closer and closer every week. US Politics are rapidly becoming the preferred conversation topic for millions of Americans and non-Americans worldwide. What are these people saying? What do they think? What are their opinions? How do they feel?
We are using machine learning to find out! For the past few months, we’ve been collecting millions of tweets posted by users from around the world that discuss this topic and classifying them using sentiment analysis with MonkeyLearn. That is, for each tweet published that mentions either Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump, MonkeyLearn tags it with its sentiment, which can be either positive, neutral, or negative."
"On November 8, voters all over the country will go to the polls to cast their ballot for the next president of the United States.
In one of the most divisive contests in modern political history, Republican nominee Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton have sparred over important issues at stake this election, including immigration, national security, gun control, healthcare reform, and much more."
"Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton laid out competing visions for the American economy during a pair of speeches this week, pitching a variety of ideas to accelerate job creation and economic growth.
The proposals they unveiled - some new, some familiar - ran the gamut from tax and wage reforms to national investments in infrastructure and manufacturing.
 "
"While the Mueller report did not find evidence that Donald Trump or his campaign knowingly coordinated with Russia to target the computers and data of Hillary Clinton's campaign during the 2016 US presidential election, the investigation did show that both sides were willing to reap the benefits of each other's actions. 
One new detail included in the report, released April 18 by the US Department of Justice, highlighted the significance of the symbiotic relationship. On July 27, 2016, within five hours of then-candidate Trump's call for Russia to ""find the 30,000 e-mails that are missing,"" officers of the Russian Main Intelligence Directorate of the General Staff (GRU) targeted Clinton's personal office for the first time, attempting to compromise 15 nonpublic accounts.
Previous details on Russia's activities during the run-up to the 2016 election, released as part of a 2018 indictment and charging documents against 12 GRU members, did not include the close link between the actions of the Trump campaign and Russia cyber activities."
"Remember when Donald Trump threatened to jail Hillary Clinton over her use of a private email server as secretary of state? Clinton apologized and said she used her private server for convenience, but the concern then was that she could have compromised classified information and posed a security threat to the U.S. Well, now that he’s president, Trump is potentially putting the country at an even greater risk: using two unsecured cell phones that could expose him to hacking or surveillance by outsiders. Lock him up, anyone?

According to a new Politico report, Trump uses two phones—one for calls and one, evidently, just for antagonizing the populace on Twitter—that aren’t “equipped with sophisticated security features designed to shield his communications.” Making matters worse, the president reportedly refuses to swap out his cell phones on a monthly basis—as President Obama had—because it would be “too inconvenient.” Unlike Obama, Trump has also declined to disable the camera and microphone on the “call-capable phone,” and, according to Politico, citing senior administration officials, “keeping those components creates a risk that hackers could use them to access the phone and monitor the president’s movements.”"
It’s surprising how explicitly the 2016 election has been about genitals. Republican presidential candidates have often been fixated on manhood, but just like with other themes of conservative politics of the last few decades, subtlety has gone out the window. I used to joke that Donald Trump would eventually expose himself on stage, but then he bragged about his penis size in a Fox News debate and it wasn’t a joke anymore. Too obvious. Yet if there’s not an enormous upset in the next month, this will get only more extreme in the general election. Trump vs. Clinton will be the boys vs. girls election: penises vs. vaginas.
"Robert Mueller’s 448-page investigative report into allegations of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election includes 23 unredacted pages of Mueller’s written questions and Donald Trump’s written responses, the only direct exchange between the special counsel’s office and the president.
Mueller’s team writes that it tried to interview the president for more than a year before Trump submitted written testimony in response to questions on certain Russia-related topics in November 2018.
An introductory note included in the report said the special counsel’s office found the responses indicative of “the inadequacy of the written format,” especially given the office’s inability to ask follow-up questions."
TEXT
"Bad behaviour! Briercliffe Parish Council
The Daily Mail | Posted 18th December 2014
Fight breaks out at parish council meeting after disagreement over sheep grazing rights
Meeting at Briercliffe Parish Council had to be abandoned after fight.
It is believed that discussions about sheep grazing rights became heated.
Lancashire police examining video footage of the incident on Monday night.
Police were called to a parish council meeting after a row over sheep grazing turned into a physical fight.
Lancashire police have called in video footage of the incident on Monday, at a meeting of the allotments committee of Briercliffe Parish Council.
The meeting had to be abandoned after discussions about sheep grazing rights became heated and ‘swear words were exchanged’ before the row spilled outside.
Lancashire Constabulary said it is now investigating possible public order offences.
Councillor Margaret Lishman, who chaired the meeting, said: “The meeting had to be adjourned because a fight broke out between some members of the public.
“The matter is with the police at the present time so it would not be appropriate for me to comment further.”
A police spokeswoman said the matter was under investigation and officers were reviewing video footage of the incident.
She said no arrests had been made, but police were looking into possible public order offences.
Former parish councillor Sarah Seed has been involved in protracted negotiations over grazing land for her sheep Millie, along with fellow councillor Colin Meeks.
She resigned earlier this month along with Coun Meeks, and lodged a standards complaint with Burnley Council.
The scuffle broke out at the meeting between council lengthsman Michael Greenwood, and Mrs Seed’s husband, Jimmy.
Mr Greenwood works as a contractor for the Parish Council, as council lengthsman.
Lengthsmen are employed by parish councils to tend to parts of the village such as commons and village greens, and maintain drainage into fields and public areas.
Mrs Seed said: ‘It started in the community centre."
"Delay in Assembly elections will harm democratic system: Rafi Mir
Jammu & Kashmir
March 12, 2019 Nadia BaqalLeave a Comment on Delay in Assembly elections will harm democratic system: Rafi Mir
Sajad Bashir
Srinagar 12 March (KNB): The election commission of India on Sunday announced that only Lok Sabha elections are going to be held and the assembly elections will be held later citing the recent violent events and the security reasons .
The decision to uphold the assembly elections in the state of Jammu and Kashmir has erupted a wide criticism terming the move as a failure of the center, the assembly elections were due in month of May and the all regional and national parties appealed the election commission team for conducting of Assembly elections along with the parliamentary elections .
Talking to Kashmir news Bureau Rafi Mir a prominent leader of people’s Democratic Party said “ as assured by the union Government and the Home Minister Rajnath that there were no security problems in the state for holding the election in state, we were expecting the assembly elections would be conducted along with the Lok Sabha election but unfortunately the elections were deferred .
He added governors rule is temporary and as per supreme court guidelines the elections should be held within six months of the emergency governors or presidential rule .
He further added that the deferment of assembly elections is against these guidelines which is not good for democracy, it will harm the democratic system and political parties , and will send a wrong signal inside and outside state on the democratic system and hoped that central government will conduct the assembly elections as soon as possible
Earlier the former Chief Minister and National conference leader raised the queries on the decision and tweeted ”what happened to @ Rajnath singh ,s assurance to lok sabha and Rajya sabha as well as to all party meeting recently in delhi that all forces would be made available for simultaneous polls .
The decision of deferring the assembly has also set a volley of criticism at the national level and the bhartiya samaj party (BSP) supremo Mayawati slammed the Prime Minister Narendra Modi for deferring the assembly elections in the state
Taking to Twitter mayawati said “ denying the assembly election along with the Lok Sabha is a poor reflection and indicative of Modi government failure of Kashmir policy. (KNB)"
"HomePOLITICS2019: APC Chieftain, Supporters dump Party for PDP in Sokoto
2019: APC Chieftain, Supporters dump Party for PDP in Sokoto	
The All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain in Sokoto State, Alhaji Dahiru Yusuf Yabo, has announced his defection to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
Yabo, a former gubernatorial candidate of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) in Sokoto, made the declaration while addressing a rally attended by thousands of his supporters on Monday.
The former commissioner, who was an ardent supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari, said he dumped the party because he and other ex-CPC members were abandoned.
He said: “Despite working hard for Buhari’s election in 2015, the APC leadership failed to honour the merger agreement reached with former Sokoto State Governor Aliyu Wamakko with the defunct CPC members since 2015.”
“My resolve to join the PDP is because of the failure of Buhari to deliver on the promises made to Nigerians especially in the area of provision of security. I was one of his political foot soldiers and close allies in the past years but he can not even recognized me now.
“Also, the ruling APC also failed to honour the merger agreement reached with Senator Aliyu Wamakko with defunct CPC members since 2015.
“We hereby resolve not to show any trust towards Senator Wamakko as the APC leader in Sokoto state, due to his penchant for betraying his associates.
‘Unfortunately, rather than the change, it promised to the electorates, the party only caused socio-economic discomfort to Nigerians whose lives have been impacted negatively due to impeccable failure of the ruling party.
“On behalf of APC members especially the defunct CPC executive members and their supporters across the 23 local government areas, we hereby endorse the presidential aspiration of Governor Tambuwal and Hon. Manir Dan Iya as our governorship candidate in Sokoto State in 2019 polls,” Yabo added."

"Sen. Barack Obama's presidential campaign is denying a fresh accusation leveled by the campaign of Sen. Hillary Clinton that surrogates for the Illinois Democrat are engaging in ""dirty tricks"" in Iowa.
Clinton campaign manager Patti Solis Doyle made the charge in a letter to supporters Monday night. ""In both Iowa and New Hampshire, we have heard that Obama staffers are berating Hillary supporters on the phone with negative attacks against her,"" wrote Doyle.
She went on to describe accounts of a negative campaign tactic known as ""push polling"" - a practice where voters receive phone calls from individuals posing as independent pollsters who instead offer details of negative and sometimes misleading attributes about a particular candidate.
Doyle also said some of Clinton’s Iowa supporters have received calls that direct them to the wrong precinct locations.
In a statement released Tuesday, Obama campaign spokesman Bill Burton called the accusation a ""flat-out falsehood.""
""Our opponents have promised to stop at nothing in an effort to tarnish Barack Obama's character,"" Burton continued. ""Push polling or tactics of confusion have no place in this campaign and we don't or won't engage in them. Unlike some other campaigns, we want every potential Iowa caucusgoer to participate in the process, no matter who they support.""
Tuesday's back-and-forth between the leading Democratic presidential campaigns is the latest in a heightened war of words one month before Iowa voters kick off the presidential primary process.
On Monday, Clinton charged Obama ""started running for president the day he arrived in the U.S. Senate,"" and in his ""rush to campaign"" has missed key Senate votes.
Obama's campaign hit back, saying he ""doesn't need lectures in political courage from someone who followed George Bush to war in Iraq, gave him the benefit of the doubt on Iran, supported NAFTA and opposed ethanol until she decided to run for president."""
"More than 120 people attended our meeting with Local Elections candidates which was organised to help W4 residents and business owners decide on who to vote for at the ballot box on May 3.
Chaired by Susannah Simons, the former BBC Radio, Channel 4 & Classic FM presenter, there were 11 panellists from the four main parties.
They were Daniel Goldsmith, Green Party Chiswick Riverside; Francis Beddington, LibDems Chiswick Riverside; Guy de Boursac, LibDems Chiswick Riverside; Joanna Biddolph, Conservative Turnham Green; John Stroud-Turp, Labour Turnham Green; Leigh Edwards, LibDems Turnham Green; Nick FitzPatrick, Labour Chiswick Homefields; Ron Mushiso, Conservative Turnham Green; Ranjit Gill, Conservative Turnham Green; Sam Hearn, Conservative Chiswick Riverside; and Tom White, Labour Chiswick Riverside.
Notably absent from the meeting was Ruth Mayorcas, Labour candidate for Turnham Green, who is the biggest cheerleader for CS9. Candidate Mayorcas has even questioned the existence of this Group on the basis that none of us know what Tfl’s revised scheme will look like. So, she argues, there’s no point in any of us having any meetings until we do.
We have two issues with that position.
Voters have a right to question their candidates so that they can make informed decisions on who they want to represent them. And Tfl doesn’t have a track record of putting Mark II cycle lane schemes out for consultation.
So, back to the meeting then.
After a lively 90-minute question and answer session with the candidates, the audience was asked to vote on three different scenarios. Here’s what transpired.
Are you for or against CS9 in its current form?
The motion against CS9 in its current form was carried by a significant majority. Only three people voted for the current scheme. This reflects the Tory position.
Should Tfl improve CS9 design on the High Road to ensure cyclists, pedestrians and public transport receive demonstrable benefit and are not disadvantaged?
The Nos carried the vote against this option, although close to 40 percent of the room agreed that they would like to see a scheme that benefited all parties. The latter reflects the LibDem and Labour positions.
Would you prefer the scheme to be scrapped altogether?
The majority of the audience said Yes, they’d prefer the scheme to be scrapped altogether, with some calling for the Cycle SuperHighway to be built along the A4 instead."
The 2012 Presidential race was the most expensive in the history of the US. Interestingly, a significant amount of that money didn’t come from spending by campaigns, but rather from outside groups. These spendings by Super PACs & similar groups has changed the face of campaigning and elections in America. In 2012 the top three Super PAC spenders were Restore our Future, American Crossroads and Priorities USA Action. Between 90 and 100% of the spending done by these groups was used for attack ads. “The Spending Race” investigates how the recent birth of Super PACs (Political Action Committees) affected the last presidential election and how they will affect all manner of elections to come . The documentary gives viewers a historical overview of campaign finance laws in the US, as well as a better understanding of the structure and function of Super PACs. Most importantly, the film will engage in the current debate over Super PACs, weighing in on their possible effects not only on our elections and society as a whole.
"The Maryland Board of Elections [official website] on Tuesday officially certified [certification notice, PDF] a referendum petition seeking to challenge the state's new same-sex marriage law [SB 241, PDF] in the upcoming election. In a letter, the Board of Elections stated that the office had confirmed 122,481 signatures in support of the petition, a count that is well over the requirement of just over 55,000. The petition was organized by the Maryland Marriage Alliance [advocacy website], an advocacy group that opposes same-sex marriage [JURIST backgrounder]. An unofficial count [JURIST report] of certified signatures early last month indicated that the petition had already satisfied the requirement. Maryland joined the seven states that allow same-sex marriage [JURIST report] in March when Governor Martin O'Malley [official website] signed the Civil Marriage Protection Act.
Several states will include a same-sex marriage question on their ballot in the upcoming election. Minnesota voters will have the opportunity to amend the state constitutionin November , defining marriage as a heterosexual relationship. On Monday, proponents of the ballot initiative petitioned the state Supreme Court to restore the original title of the proposed amendment [JURIST report], arguing that its amended title is misleading. Last month, citizens in Washington obtained enough signatures [JURIST report] to challenge newly passed same-sex marriage legislation. The state's ballot will contain a section asking voters to accept or reject the new legislation. Similarly, a group supporting same-sex marriage in Maine achieved enough signatures [JURIST report] in February to have the question of same-sex marriage appear on its ballot. Earlier that month, New Jersey governor Chris Christie vetoed legislation [JURIST report] that would have legalized same-sex marriage in the state, and called for a state-wide referendum on the issue."
The Election Commission of India has issued notification for first phase of Lok Sabha elections today.
"the Rohingya crisis is nested within two other complex political conflicts.
The ongoing security crisis in Rakhine State has put immense pressure on an already tense relationship between the National League for Democracy government and the military.
Paradoxically, while State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi has been widely criticised for shielding the military against international demands for accountability, the military has been angered by her refusal to convene the National Defence and Security Council. This council was set up to coordinate government security policy and is the only institution that can declare a state of emergency (as the previous government did during the communal violence in Rakhine State in 2012).
Further complicating matters for Aung San Suu Kyi, several opposition parties have taken advantage of the security crisis to challenge the government’s nationalist credentials and try to weaken its support among Burman majority voters in particular. Thus, they have effectively aligned themselves with the military in the political struggle that is already heating up in preparation for the 2020 elections.
Although persistent rumours of a pending coup are probably overstated, Aung San Suu Kyi has reason to fear that any step by her government, which could be perceived as pro-Rohingya, would be exploited by her political enemies to weaken not just her personally but conceivably also the country’s embryonic democracy.
Deep divisions also exist between the Burman-led government and local Rakhine people."
"Kitsap County is expecting to see a larger turnout in this year’s midterm election than the one four years ago, according to county election officials.
Nearly 40 percent of Kitsap County’s eligible voters have already sent in their ballots for Tuesday’s General Election.
According to the Kitsap County Elections Division, a total of 64,387 ballots have been received for counting through Thursday, Nov. 1. That number represents 38.14 percent of the county’s eligible registered voters.
Turnout for this year’s midterm election is expected to be roughly 65 to 70 percent of registered voters, according to Kitsap County Auditor Dolores Gilmore.
Voting in Kitsap County is following historical trends, with the most ballots returned so far on a single day happening on the Monday leading into the weekend before Election Day. A total of 12,802 ballots were returned on Monday, Oct. 29.
If history holds, the greatest number of ballots will arrive for processing in Port Orchard following this weekend.
Kitsap County election officials note that a total of 168,827 voters are eligible to vote in Tuesday’s election.
There were 167,088 voters registered in Kitsap for the August Primary Election.
In the last midterm election in Kitsap, in November 2014, there were 154,462 registered voters, and turnout hit 56 percent."
"There was a European Union Summit meeting over the weekend in Bratislava, the capital city of Slovakia, but only 27 of the 28 EU members were represented. The representative from the UK was not invited because on June 23, the UK passed the Brexit referendum, calling for the UK to leave the EU. So even though the UK is still a full-fledged member of the European Union, the new UK prime minister Theresa May was not invited.
Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel has won repeated elections in Germany, the strongest economy in Europe, and so Merkel has been setting much of the agenda for Europe for almost ten years.
Although there is no one in Europe with the charisma necessary to replace Merkel as a leader, Merkel has certainly been weakened by the migrant crisis and her election defeats. Between that and Britain's Brexit vote, which called for Britain to leave the European Union, Europe itself is in disarray.
Indeed, the Brexit scenario is itself in disarray. Britain's new prime minister Theresa May has said that they won't even invoke ""Article 50"" until next year. Invoking Article 50 begins the two-year negotiation process for Britain's exit from the EU, and so no negotiations have begun to take place, leaving many businesses and people unable to make plans.
There are two major issues to be resolved by the Brexit negotiations. One issue is whether Britain will remain as part of the European Common Market, which is considered necessary by some people for Britain's trade requirements. The other issue is whether Britain will allow the free flow of people between Britain and the EU nations. Many Britons would like to remain in the Common Market even if there is no free flow of people, but many European leaders have already rejected that option, saying that you can't have freedom of trade unless you also have freedom to travel.
Even without the UK present, the EU summit was considered failure. Many people had hoped that the Summit would find a way to resolve the disputes, and particularly to reach a compromise with Hungary's prime minister Viktor Orb�n which would allow Hungary to accept some migrants."
"Two surveys that were held following the Eurogroup’s meeting in Brussels on Monday show that most Greeks are more than ready to see the conclusion of the bailout review and no longer see a Grexit as an eminent event.
The polls were released on Sunday in Athens and according to Kappa research polling for the Greek news paper To Vima, around 61.5 percent of the people who responded to the opinion poll are in favor of the ruling SYRIZA government making a deal with lenders to finalize the last bailout review.
There was a considerably low amount of those polled who wanted snap elections according to the results which showed only 27 percent in favor. However, some 57.5 percent of those polled by Kappa said that they weren’t happy with SYRIZA’s negotiations with the country’s international lenders.
Similar results came from a Alco polling firm for the news portal, news247, which also showed that 40 percent of those polled didn’t think that the opposition would have any better results negotiating bailout terms with foreign lenders.
Both polls seem to indicate that Greeks are tired of living in limbo and want to get on with the process of the bailout review. Meanwhile the polls also show that they are not confident in either the ruling SYRIZA or opposition to complete the deal."
"A US Senator seen as a top contender for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020 has released a DNA test providing ""strong evidence"" that she has Native American ancestry after her claims had been mocked by Donald Trump, a report said Monday.
The president on Monday denied he ever made the promise, but Law & Crime reports he may legally be on the hook for the contribution.
Liberals have been hailing this as a #Resistance victory-Donald Trump has constantly belittled Warren for falsely claiming Native American blood-while conservatives are pouncing on the weakness of The Globe's claim. ""You'd better read it again"", the president said. ""I understand and respect that distinction but my family history is my family history"", Warren said in a video explaining the results posted to her Twitter account.
Touting a progressive platform of single-payer Medicare for All, a $15 minimum wage, and strict gun control, Warren said earlier this month that she will strongly consider taking on Trump in 2020, after the midterm elections are done. ""When you go to every rally saying 'Pocahontas, Elizabeth Warren, ' clearly she's getting under his skin"".
Earlier this year, the senator released personnel files seeking to dispute critics who have alleged that the former Harvard Law School professor advanced her law career with a narrative that she is a descendant of Cherokee and DE tribes. At a rally in July, he said if he had to face her in a debate, he would offer Warren $1 million to take a DNA test.
International Monetary Fund reviews Nigeria's growth projection downwards
Meanwhile, the United States would see a roughly 0.9 percentage point hit, damping growth from 2.5% next year to 1.6%. He called on countries to ensure inclusive growth, which he said was ""more important than ever"".
""I haven't looked at the test"", Conway told reporters Monday morning.
The analysis of Ms Warren's DNA was done by Carlos D. Bustamante, a Stanford University professor who the Boston Globe reported was an expert in the field. ""It makes a mockery out of DNA tests and its legitimate uses while also dishonoring legitimate tribal governments and their citizens, whose ancestors are well documented and whose heritage is proven"". ""I know that everybody likes to pick their junk science and sound science depending on the conclusion it seems some days"".
After that Montana debate, Warren brushed off Trump's taunts as she had multiple times before, whenever he deployed his derisive ""Pocahontas"" nickname for her.
He later said he would make the donation under one condition. ""I think it means that she's definitely running for president because she wanted to put this behind her, and the politics of this are more interesting"". I do not think she'd be hard at all, she'd destroy our country.
Warren on Monday was quick to remind the president of his provocation, pointing out that her chosen charity is the National Indigenous Women's Resource Center. What counts as Native American heritage is a question with different answers among the 573 legally recognized tribes in the United States.
Share:
IN CASE YOU MISSED IT
Ariana Grande and Pete Davidson split after whirlwind engagement
United States treasury secretary wavers over Saudi trip after Khashoggi disappearance
Duke and Duchess of Cambridge attend Mental Health Summit
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE..."
"HomeNewsCollege Democrats and College Republicans Debate As Midterms Loom
College Democrats and College Republicans Debate As Midterms Loom
October 28, 2018 Scott Baker News, On Campus, Politics
Boston College’s College Democrats and College Republicans faced off in a debate hosted by the Eagle Political Society (EPS) on Tuesday. The contentious debate took place just weeks before the high-stakes midterm elections.
The president of EPS, Zach Lynch, MCAS ’20, expressed dismay at the increased divisiveness and politicization that are occurring in the realm of politics.
“Hyper-partisanship has come to rule the roost and personality has, kind of, come to the fore over policy in many respects,” he said. “The purpose of tonight is to try and reverse that trend so that we can recenter the debate on the issues that matter.”
The first question of the night was directed to the Republicans, asking what they believed was wrong with health care in the United States. Dan Moyer, MCAS ’20, fielded the question, calling for a free market health care system. In the response by Democrats, Clint Keaveny, MCAS ’19, came out on the attack, characterizing the current health care system as an immoral and inefficient system.
“We just can’t afford those treatments unless you’re wealthy,” he said. “They talk about America first, that’s not America first.”
Keaveny continued talking after his time ran out, speaking over the pounding of the gavel and the objections of EPS. The Republicans then demanded a rebuttal, which they were eventually granted after pointing out that the Democrats had gone over time.
The debate become even more combative when the topic turned to abortion. The College Democrats called for Roe v. Wade to be codified into state law. The Republicans at first gave a careful response to the sensitive subject, using arguments based on the legality of the issue rather than concentrating on the morality issues surrounding the controversial Supreme Court decision.
In the Democratic rebuttal, however, Gabby Kastrunes, MCAS ’22, brought up her concerns over the nomination of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Kastrunes was interrupted several times during her rebuttal by Christian Guma, CSOM ’21, of the College Republicans.
Kastrunes brought up that Kavanaugh had called birth control pills abortion pills, at which point Guma interrupted her. A heated back-and-forth began between several different members of both clubs as the Eagle Political Society struggled to regain control over the debate. The Republicans claimed Kavanaugh’s comment was taken out of context. One of the College Democrats called this a familiar response, referring to the infamous Donald Trump Access Hollywood tape.
The debate continued devolving into chaos, with a shouting match occurring between the two clubs over the rights of a fetus. The moderators paused the debate to warn both sides to be civil.
“The purpose is to try and engage in a civil debate and try and talk to the people about what is going on and we can’t do that if we’re talking over each other,” said Harry Wang, MCAS ’19, of EPS.
One of the more memorable parts of the debate was when the sides turned to the topic of taxes. The College Republicans gave a measured response, expressing concern about the stability of an economy that places high taxes on the rich to fund social programs.
“When you’re taking out taxes from the people at the top, they’re creating jobs at the bottom, and that helps middle class families, that helps poor people,” said Luis Duran, MCAS ’21.
The College Democrats characterized Republicans as greedy liars who have manipulated the country into thinking they are the party of fiscal responsibility.
“They’ve acted in the direct opposite of their goal,” Keaveny said. “They say they want to reduce deficits? No, they fought tooth and nail to pass the tax cut that ballooned the deficit. No, they’re not the party of fiscal responsibility, they’re the party of rich people.”
Another College Democrat criticized the Republican party for being neither fiscally conservative nor fiscally responsible, due to lowering tax rates while raising spending levels.
The two sides appeared to find common ground on the issue of universal higher education. The Democrats argued that everyone should have access to higher education, but it should only be free for those who can’t afford it. Additionally, access to vocational schools and community college should be expanded.
“You know, I think we agree on something,” Duran said.
The moment of agreement did not last long, however. Keaveny responded with a brazen criticism of the Republican Party.
“I do hope you guys agree, but I’d like to point out that your party as a whole doesn’t agree,” said Keaveny, as the rest of his response was drowned out by the groans of the audience and the objections of the moderators."
"Just as the voters said no to a fourth consecutive term for the Congress in Manipur after the 2017 Assembly elections, voters in Chhatisgarh and Rajasthan have also said no to a fourth and second term for the BJP. In Madhya Pradesh it is not exactly a yes to the BJP for a fourth consecutive term. In Mizoram too voters have refused to send the Congress back to power instead backing the Mizo National Front to the hilt. The figure says it all, with the Congress managing to bag only 5 in the House of 40 and the Mizo National Front romping home comfortably with 26 seats. Others accounted for 8. The common string that one can see in the results of the Assembly elections, is the huge anti-incumbency factor playing a significant role in determining the voting behaviour of the people, save for Telengana. The widespread interest in the Assembly elections in the five States rests on the fact that Parliamentary elections will be held in the early part of next year and already many keen political watchers of the country have started getting down to the task of analysing how this will impact on the Lok Sabha elections. The results of the Assembly elections in the five States will not impact on the BJP led Government at Imphal, but the results must have flustered the BJP camp here. This is all that more so since Parliamentary elections will be held next year and this will be the first time that Manipur will vote for its two Lok Sabha MPs with the BJP in power at Imphal. It is precisely because of this that The Sangai Express has expressed its view that the Parliamentary elections will be more crucial for the BJP here than the Congress.
This is a point which must have dawned on the State BJP leadership too and as noted in an earlier commentary here, much will depend on how it goes about with the business of picking its candidate, particularly in the Inner Parliamentary seat. The same thing goes for the Congress too. Will the two principal political parties go for the tried and tested political figures or will they opt for someone fresh. Here the pros and cons may be deliberated. Going for the tried and tested will obviously mean that the political party will not need to go overboard to introduce their candidate to the voters. On the other hand, it can also be burdened with the task of explaining what the candidate has done so far for the people in their political career. On the other hand, opting for a fresh candidate could mean hardselling the chosen one to the public and this may take some time. It will also entail the task of building a team of backroom boys, who must know how to strike a common line of thought with the fresh faced candidate but it remains that a fresh face is always a fresh welcome. Other than this, a close look at what Manipur needs at the moment and will need 20 years down the line is what is urgently needed. Picking the right candidate can certainly go a long way in winning half the battle, when election time comes."
"Former Vice President Joe Biden and his team have hired over a dozen senior advisors from President Barack Obama’s administration for his upcoming 2020 campaign for president, CNBC has learned.

Many of these people didn’t work within Biden’s office throughout Obama’s tenure as president, but they have extensive campaign experience ranging from political consulting to communications, according to sources with direct knowledge of the matter.

Since their time in the Obama White House, some of these aides have gone on to work on Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign and later helped Democrats retake the U.S. House of Representatives during the 2018 congressional midterm elections, these people said.

Numerous former Obama White House advisors who have been brought on to work with Biden’s team, have yet to hear where the campaign will be headquartered. But they expect it will be either in Delaware or Pennsylvania. Biden was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania and as a Senator, represented the First State for over three decades.

Those who described the recent hirings declined to be named in this story because they did not want to get ahead of the upcoming announcement.

NBC News reported on Friday that the former lawmaker is set to announce his much anticipated 2020 presidential run next week. Biden, according to people with direct knowledge of the matter, is likely to roll out his campaign video in the coming days.

A spokesman for Biden declined to comment."
"The results of the political experiment are in. At least 11 candidates with backgrounds in science, technology, engineering or medicine won election to the US House of Representatives on 6 November — including several who had never before run for political office.

They include Elaine Luria, a US Navy veteran and nuclear engineer in Virginia, and Chrissy Houlahan, a former business executive with a degree in engineering, in Pennsylvania. Illinois saw wins by registered nurse Lauren Underwood, a former senior adviser to the Department of Health and Human Services, and clean-energy entrepreneur Sean Casten, who has degrees in engineering and biochemistry.

The four — all Democrats — are among roughly 50 candidates with science backgrounds who ran for the House in 2018, sparked in part by opposition to President Donald Trump. Fewer than half of these novice politicians made it past the primaries to the general election, but many science advocates are already looking to the next campaign cycle.

“I’m feeling good,” says Representative Bill Foster (Democrat, Illinois), a physicist who has pushed to increase the number of scientists in elected office. Foster, the only current member of Congress with a science PhD, is excited about wins at the state and local levels by candidates with backgrounds in science, technology, engineering or medicine (STEM).

“We’ll have a much deeper bench among STEM candidates in future races for Congress,” he says."
"US President Donald Trump has taken a wrecking ball to the climate and environment policies of his predecessor, Barack Obama, over the past two years. To some extent, this is to be expected: any administration has the ability and right to lay out its policies and set a new course. But the Trump administration has also shown a complete disregard for the science and evidence that should underpin policy decisions.

In many cases, Republicans in Congress have been all too happy to sit back and watch. The political dynamic will now change, given that Democrats took control of the House of Representatives in the midterm elections last week.

As Nature went to press, officials were still tallying votes in several close races, but the new balance of power is clear. Democrats have so far picked up 32 seats in the House, giving them a slim but significant majority they can use to block the administration’s legislative agenda — just as Republicans did when Obama was president. The Trump administration has often used its executive authorities to advance its agenda independently of Congress, and will surely continue to do so. The difference now is that Democrats will have the power to investigate and raise questions about policies, and to issue subpoenas to compel testimony from reluctant administration officials. This won’t necessarily stop the administration, but it will put a public spotlight on the decision-making process. For anybody who cares about evidence-based policies — including this journal — this is good news.

It’s a different situation in the Senate, where Republicans will pick up at least two seats. Given the current polarization between Democrats and Republicans, the odds of bipartisanship cooperation are slim, but there are some areas in which the two parties might work together. One is the protection of funding for science and science-based agencies: the current Republican-led Congress has already declined Trump’s demands to slash funding for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other such groups, and there will be little appetite to do so next year. (The long-term budget outlook is bleak, so there might still be plenty of cuts to come.) The other point on which the two parties could unite is spending for research infrastructure.

When it comes to science, all eyes are now on changes to the committees that oversee health and environmental agencies — most notably the EPA, a primary target of Trump’s scorn and the main vehicle for his efforts to dismantle rules and regulations that protect the environment and public health but burden industry.

At minimum, expect a change in the language around global warming. The current chair of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, which regularly weighs in on scientific and technical issues, has repeatedly questioned climate science while launching investigations into alleged wrongdoing by scientists and scientific agencies. But Democrat Eddie Bernice Johnson, who is a registered nurse and now the probable future chair of the committee, plans to set the record on climate change straight in hearings next year, starting with an acknowledgement that “it is real”.

As Democrats push back, legal battles will continue to play out in the courts. Republican gains in the Senate will make it even easier for the administration to appoint judges and push the judicial system in a conservative direction. But federal judges have already rejected some of Trump’s decisions for lack of scientific analysis. Last week, a federal district court blocked construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, which would help to transport crude oil from the Canadian tar sands to the United States; the court ruled that the administration had “simply discarded” the threat of climate change when approving the pipeline.

Democrats will bring their own agendas. But lately, the party has shown more solidarity with science and evidence-based policymaking.

Come January, when the elected candidates assume their positions, science will have a more prominent place at the political table on Capitol Hill. The United States — and indeed, the world — is facing crucial questions about everything from public health and inequality to global warming. Any development that strengthens the voice of evidence, whatever side of the aisle it comes from, is one to support. "
"Being a pollster is an unenviable job. Most polling firms failed to predict the results of the last two UK general elections, the Brexit referendum and the most recent US presidential election, leading many to declare an industry-wide crisis. But despite these high-profile blunders, a new analysis says polling accuracy is actually the same as it has always been.

Polling errors are no worse now than they were 75 years ago. In fact, they have barely changed at all. Across 30,000 national polls from 351 general elections in 45 countries, errors …"
"Republican Rep. Kristi Noem defeated Democrat Billie Sutton in the 2018 midterms to become South Dakota’s first female governor.

Her platform included improving the state’s economy and keeping the state free of income tax. During her campaign, Noem told CBS News that female voters don’t “just want to talk about women’s issues,” and said that she focused her campaign on her experience and ideas.Democrat Deb Haaland, the former chairwoman of New Mexico’s Democratic Party, won New Mexico’s 1st Congressional District in the 2018 midterms. She defeated Republican Janice Arnold Jones in the district, which typically votes Democratic.

Haaland, a member of the Laguna Pueblo tribe, will become one of the first Native American women elected to Congress alongside Democrat Sharice Davids, who won Kansas’ 3rd Congressional District. Two Native American men — both Republicans — currently serve in the U.S. House of Representatives.

Haaland’s platform included advocating for Medicare for All, subsidizing early childhood care and education and protecting and expanding an Obama-era immigration policy that allowed people brought to the United States illegally as children to defer deportation.

“It’s not that native women haven’t tried. Ada Deer tried. Kalyn Free tried. Denise Juneau tried a couple years ago,” Haaland told TIME in June. “I’m not exceptional. I didn’t grow up with privilege. I almost feel like my winning is a shoutout to democracy everywhere.”"
"The Elections Clause is the primary source of constitutional authority to regulate elections for the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate. The Clause directs and empowers states to determine the “Times, Places, and Manner” of congressional elections, subject to Congress’s authority to “make or alter” state regulations. It grants each level of government the authority to enact a complete code for such elections, including rules concerning public notices, voter registration, voter protection, fraud prevention, vote counting, and determination of election results. Whenever a state enacts a law relating to a congressional election, it is exercising power under the Elections Clause; states do not have any inherent authority to enact such measures. 

Although the Elections Clause makes states primarily responsible for regulating congressional elections, it vests ultimate power in Congress. Congress may pass federal laws regulating congressional elections that automatically displace (“preempt”) any contrary state statutes, or enact its own regulations concerning those aspects of elections that states may not have addressed. The Framers of the Constitution were concerned that states might establish unfair election procedures or attempt to undermine the national government by refusing to hold elections for Congress. They empowered Congress to step in and regulate such elections as a self-defense mechanism.

On occasion, Congress has exercised its power to “make or alter” rules concerning congressional elections, and some of its laws lie at the very heart of the modern electoral process. It has established a single national Election Day for congressional elections, and mandated that states with multiple Representatives in the U.S. House divide themselves into congressional districts, rather than electing all of their Representatives at-large. Congress also has enacted statutes limiting the amount of money that people may contribute to candidates for Congress, requiring that people publicly disclose most election-related spending, mandating that voter registration forms be made available at various public offices, and requiring states to ensure the accuracy of their voter registration rolls.

The power of states and Congress to regulate congressional elections under the Elections Clause is subject to express and implicit limits. Fundamentally, neither entity can enact laws under the Elections Clause that violate other constitutional provisions. For example, the Constitution specifies that anyone who is eligible to vote for the larger house of a state legislature may vote for the U.S. House and U.S. Senate as well. The Elections Clause does not permit either the states or Congress to override those provisions by establishing additional qualifications for voting for Congress.

Likewise, the Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution protects the fundamental right to vote, barring states from needlessly imposing substantial burdens on the right. When a law specifies that a person must satisfy certain requirements or follow certain procedures in order to vote, a court must determine whether it is a reasonable regulation of the electoral process under the Elections Clause, or instead undermines the right to vote. Laws requiring people to register to vote in advance of elections or mandating that they vote at their assigned polling places are exactly the types of restrictions that the Elections Clause permits.

The Constitution also specifies age, residency, and citizenship requirements to run for the House or Senate. Individuals who satisfy those requirements cannot be prohibited from running for office for failing to satisfy other qualifications. States can, however, impose reasonable ballot access restrictions that a candidate must fulfill in order to appear on the ballot, such as submitting a petition signed by a certain number of registered voters. The Supreme Court has aggressively enforced this restriction by invalidating various attempts to impose term limits on Members of Congress. In U.S. Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton (1995), the Court held that the Elections Clause did not permit a state to refuse to print on the ballot the names of candidates for the U.S. House who already had served three terms there, or the names of candidates for the U.S. Senate who had already served two terms.

The Supreme Court has explained that the Elections Clause also imposes implicit restrictions on the power to regulate congressional elections. Neither Congress nor the states may attempt to dictate electoral outcomes, or favor or disfavor certain classes of candidates. In Cook v. Gralike (2001), the Court struck down a provision that required election officials to print a special warning on the ballot next to the name of any candidate for Congress who refused to support an amendment to the U.S Constitution that would impose term limits for Congress. The Court explained that the provision exceeded the state’s power under the Elections Clause because it was “plainly designed” to favor candidates who supported term limits, while placing others at a disadvantage.   

One unusual feature of the Elections Clause is that it does not confer the power to regulate congressional elections on states as a whole, but rather the “Legislature” of each state. The Supreme Court has construed the term “Legislature” extremely broadly to include any entity or procedure that a state’s constitution permits to exercise lawmaking power. Thus, laws regulating congressional elections may be enacted not only by a state’s actual legislature, but also directly by a state’s voters through the initiative process or public referendum, in states that allow such procedures. 

The Court also has held that a legislature may delegate its authority under the Elections Clause to other entities or officials. A few states have chosen to transfer power to draw congressional district lines from their respective legislatures to non-partisan or bipartisan “independent redistricting commissions.” These states believe that such commissions can make the electoral process more fair by preventing voters from being divided into congressional districts in ways that unduly protect existing officeholders (“gerrymandering”). 

As this summary shows, congressional elections are conducted under a complicated mix of state and federal laws, reflecting the Elections Clause’s division of authority between state legislatures and Congress."
"Members of the US House of Representatives serve two-year terms, and senators six-year terms. This means that all 435 members of the House and 35 out of 100 senators (33 plus two empty seats due to resignations) are up for re-election on November 6.

Due to the Democrats’ success in the 2012 election, just nine of those 35 Senate seats are Republican-controlled. So the Democrats’ chance of taking the Senate is slim – around 1-in-7, according to FiveThirtyEight.com – despite the fact Republicans currently hold only a narrow 51-49 majority. For those outside the US, this may seem remarkable, given the profoundly unethical decisions enacted by the Trump administration, and the parade of misogyny that surrounded Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s recent Senate confirmation hearing for the Supreme Court.

And yet, there are a number of plausible scenarios in which the minority party could actually lose ground. "
" The president and vice president of the United States are formally elected through an electoral college. Members (“electors”) of this electoral college are chosen through the popular vote in each state, and to be elected president a candidate must receive a majority of the electoral votes. If no candidate receives a majority, the president is elected by the House of Representatives, which may choose among the three candidates with the most electoral votes.

Electoral college and popular vote results in U.S. elections are provided in the table."
"Voters have elected their senators in the privacy of the voting booth since 1913. The framers of the Constitution, however, did not intend senators to be elected in this way, and included in Article I, section 3, ""The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each state, chosen by the legislature thereof for six Years; and each Senator shall have one Vote."" The election of delegates to the Constitutional Convention established the precedent for state selection. The framers believed that in electing senators, state legislatures would cement their tie with the national government, which would increase the chances for ratifying the Constitution. They also expected that senators elected by state legislatures would be able to concentrate on the business at hand without pressure from the populace.

This process seemed to work well until the mid-1850s. At that time, growing hostilities in various states resulted in vacant Senate seats. In Indiana, for example, the conflict between Democrats in the southern half of the state and the emerging Republican party in the northern half prevented the election of any candidate, thereby leaving the Senate seat vacant for two years. This marked the beginning of many contentious battles in state legislatures, as the struggle to elect senators reflected the increasing tensions over slavery and states' rights which led to the Civil War.

After the Civil War, problems in senatorial elections by the state legislatures multiplied. In one case in the late 1860s, the election of Senator John Stockton of New Jersey was contested on the grounds that he had been elected by a plurality rather than a majority in the state legislature. Stockton based his defense on the observation that not all states elected their senators in the same way, and presented a report that illustrated the inconsistency in state elections of senators. In response, Congress passed a law in 1866 regulating how and when senators were elected in each state. This was the first change in the process of senatorial elections created by the Founders. The law helped but did not entirely solve the problem, and deadlocks in some legislatures continued to cause long vacancies in some Senate seats.

Intimidation and bribery marked some of the states' selection of senators. Nine bribery cases were brought before the Senate between 1866 and 1906. In addition, forty-five deadlocks occurred in twenty states between 1891 and 1905, resulting in numerous delays in seating senators. In 1899, problems in electing a senator in Delaware were so acute that the state legislature did not send a senator to Washington for four years.

The impetus for reform began as early as 1826 , when direct election of senators was first proposed. In the 1870s, voters sent a petition to the House of Representatives for a popular election. From 1893 to 1902, momentum increased considerably. Each year during that period, a constitutional amendment to elect senators by popular vote was proposed in Congress, but the Senate fiercely resisted change, despite the frequent vacancies and disputed election results. In the mid-1890s, the Populist party incorporated the direct election of senators into its party platform, although neither the Democrats nor the Republicans paid much notice at the time. In the early 1900s, one state initiated changes on its own. Oregon pioneered direct election and experimented with different measures over several years until it succeeded in 1907. Soon after, Nebraska followed suit and laid the foundation for other states to adopt measures reflecting the people's will. Senators who resisted reform had difficulty ignoring the growing support for direct election of senators.

After the turn of the century, momentum for reform grew rapidly. William Randolph Hearst expanded his publishing empire with Cosmopolitan, and championed the cause of direct election with muckraking articles and strong advocacy of reform. Hearst hired a veteran reporter, David Graham Phillips, who wrote scathing pieces on senators, portraying them as pawns of industrialists and financiers. The pieces became a series titled ""The Treason of the Senate,"" which appeared in several monthly issues of the magazine in 1906. These articles galvanized the public into maintaining pressure on the Senate for reform.

Increasingly, senators were elected based on state referenda, similar to the means developed by Oregon. By 1912, as many as twenty-nine states elected senators either as nominees of their party's primary or in a general election. As representatives of a direct election process, the new senators supported measures that argued for federal legislation, but in order to achieve reform, a constitutional amendment was required. In 1911, Senator Joseph Bristow from Kansas offered a resolution, proposing a constitutional amendment. The idea also enjoyed strong support from Senator William Borah of Idaho, himself a product of direct election. Eight southern senators and all Republican senators from New England, New York, and Pennsylvania opposed Senator Bristow's resolution. The Senate approved the resolution largely because of the senators who had been elected by state-initiated reforms, many of whom were serving their first term, and therefore may have been more willing to support direct election. After the Senate passed the amendment, which represented the culmination of decades of debate about the issue, the measure moved to the House of Representatives.

The House initially fared no better than the Senate in its early discussions of the proposed amendment. Much wrangling characterized the debates, but in the summer of 1912 the House finally passed the amendment and sent it to the states for ratification. The campaign for public support was aided by senators such as Borah and political scientist George H. Haynes, whose scholarly work on the Senate contributed greatly to passage of the amendment.

Connecticut's approval gave the Seventeenth Amendment the required three-fourths majority, and it was added to the Constitution in 1913. The following year marked the first time all senatorial elections were held by popular vote.

The Seventeenth Amendment restates the first paragraph of Article I, section 3 of the Constitution and provides for the election of senators by replacing the phrase ""chosen by the Legislature thereof"" with ""elected by the people thereof."" In addition, it allows the governor or executive authority of each state, if authorized by that state's legislature, to appoint a senator in the event of a vacancy, until a general election occurs."
The Electors shall meet in their respective states, and vote by ballot for President and Vice-President, one of whom, at least, shall not be an inhabitant of the same state with themselves; they shall name in their ballots the person voted for as President, and in distinct ballots the person voted for as Vice-President, and they shall make distinct lists of all persons voted for as President, and of all persons voted for as Vice-President, and of the number of votes for each, which lists they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the seat of the government of the United States, directed to the President of the Senate; The President of the Senate shall, in the presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the certificates and the votes shall then be counted;--The person having the greatest number of votes for President, shall be the President, if such number be a majority of the whole number of Electors appointed; and if no person have such majority, then from the persons having the highest numbers not exceeding three on the list of those voted for as President, the House of Representatives shall choose immediately, by ballot, the President. But in choosing the President, the votes shall be taken by states, the representation from each state having one vote; a quorum for this purpose shall consist of a member or members from two-thirds of the states, and a majority of all the states shall be necessary to a choice.... The person having the greatest number of votes as Vice-President, shall be the Vice-President, if such number be a majority of the whole number of Electors appointed, and if no person have a majority, then from the two highest numbers on the list, the Senate shall choose the Vice-President; a quorum for the purpose shall consist of two-thirds of the whole number of Senators, and a majority of the whole number shall be necessary to a choice. But no person constitutionally ineligible to the office of President shall be eligible to that of Vice-President to the United States. 
Various population cohorts (gender, race and ethnicity, age, education, income, rural-urban classification) exhibit different voting turnout[3]. Young voters are under-represented in the vote compared to old ones. White US citizens are over-represented while African-American and Hispanic citizens tend to have lower voter turnout. The rural population is over-represented in the voting population, compared to the urban population. Gender and income, in contrast, show only relatively minor differences between the voter and the eligible population. In terms of education, there is a moderate under-representation of the group with low levels of education.
"In one of the most highly anticipated midterm elections in modern political history, things went, largely, as polls predicted they would. Democrats cleaned up in the suburbs, using a massive gender gap among women to retake the majority they lost in 2010. In the Senate, geography was destiny; the map was heavily tilted toward Republican-friendly states where President Donald Trump remained popular -- and the GOP scored a series of wins in those states. The governors races produced a split decision; Democrats won in Michigan, Illinois and, somewhat surprisingly, Kansas; Republicans, however, won the two big prizes on the map in Florida and Ohio.
We're still sifting through the data and there are a number of races that are still uncalled. But we know a lot. And here are my big takeaways from another amazing night in American democracy: 1. The year of the woman

House Democrats placed a MASSIVE bet on women in their plan to retake the majority. Dozens and dozens of Democratic female candidates jumped into races across the country. Democrats tailored much of their messaging on health care, on taxes, on everything to female voters -- especially in the suburbs. That was clearly the right bet. Women made up 52% of the overall electorate, according to preliminary exit polls, and they went for Democratic candidates over Republicans by 20. According to the Cook Political Report's Dave Wasserman, there will now be more than 100 women in the House in 2019 for the first time in history.
If you are looking forward to 2020, the results from Tuesday night suggest that a female candidate running to be the Democratic nominee against President Donald Trump may well have a major advantage.
2. A Trump referendum
In the closing days of the campaign, Trump went back and forth on whether or not this election was a referendum on his first two years in office. At times, he acknowledged that it was, telling roaring audiences that a vote for [fill in the blank Republican candidate] was effectively a vote for him. At others, Trump sought to note that his name wasn't on the ballot -- and that he couldn't be held responsible for whatever happened to Republicans.
The early exit polling suggests that two-thirds of voters said that their vote on Tuesday was about Trump, with more saying they came to vote to show opposition rather than support for the President; nearly 4 in 10 voters said that their vote was meant as a sign of opposition to Trump.
That, by the way, is not unique to Trump. Midterm elections are almost always referendums on the president and his party. And they are almost always negative referendums. (Americans like divided government.) It's why the president's party has not lost House seats in only three midterms since the Civil War. (What years were those? 1934, 1998 and 2002.)
The split decisions -- Democrats win the House majority, Republicans keep control of the Senate -- is fitting in an election about Trump, the single most polarizing President in modern politics. Trump allies will insist that without him, Republicans would have lost the Senate and the House. Trump detractors -- including some Republicans -- will argue that Trump cost them any chance at keeping control of the House."
Following the 2016 US presidential election, many have expressed concern about the effects of false stories ("fake news"), circulated largely through social media. We discuss the economics of fake news and present new data on its consumption prior to the election. Drawing on web browsing data, archives of fact-checking websites, and results from a new online survey, we find: 1) social media was an important but not dominant source of election news, with 14 percent of Americans calling social media their "most important" source; 2) of the known false news stories that appeared in the three months before the election, those favoring Trump were shared a total of 30 million times on Facebook, while those favoring Clinton were shared 8 million times; 3) the average American adult saw on the order of one or perhaps several fake news stories in the months around the election, with just over half of those who recalled seeing them believing them; and 4) people are much more likely to believe stories that favor their preferred candidate, especially if they have ideologically segregated social media networks.
"On April 19, 2016, The University of Texas at Austin College of Liberal Arts and Humanities Texas hosted ""The Election of 1860 and Its Contemporary Significance,"" an evening discussion of citizenship, democracy, and pivotal presidential elections in American history. Expert faculty analyzed, through an interdisciplinary lens, the political forces, issues, and consequences of the election of 1860 as well as its parallels to subsequent elections and its relevance today.

Participating scholars included Michael Les Benedict (The Ohio State University), Daniel Feller (University of Tennessee), Randall Fuller (University of Tulsa), Andrew Torget (University of North Texas), and Daina Ramey Berry, George B. Forgie, Jacqueline Jones, and Jeremi Suri from The University of Texas at Austin. The Honorable Thomas R. Phillips, former Chief Justice of the Texas Supreme Court, served as moderator.

The public forum series Pivotal U.S. Elections: Then and Now has been made possible in part by a Humanities in the Public Square grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities: Celebrating 50 Years of Excellence. Six regional forums covering other pivotal elections in American history will be held this fall in College Station, Corpus Christi, Dallas, El Paso, Houston, and San Antonio.

Below are excerpts from faculty presentations delivered at ""The Election of 1860 and Its Contemporary Significance"" at the Glickman Conference Center at The University of Texas at Austin.
Daina Ramey Berry, The Rise of Abolitionism

When we talk about the abolitionist movement, we don't have to talk about people who experienced slavery—we're also talking about people who witnessed it, people who supported [abolitionism]. I want to talk about the Underground Railroad as a movement of written texts—not just of speeches, but also the written work of people like William Still and Mary Ann Shadd Cary.

William Still was born October 7, 1821, in Burlington, New Jersey. His parents were both born into slavery, and they self-emancipated. His father was able to purchase his freedom, and his mother ran away with four of her children. He was an active agent on the Underground Railroad in Philadelphia, he helped finance some of Harriet Tubman's trips to the North, and he worked for the Pennsylvania Society for the Abolition of Slavery. Pamphlets and newspapers are disseminated in the North and the South to tell stories about the history of slavery and to try to gain support from a larger international audience. William Still decides to get involved in this and starts publishing reports about people's escape stories. In 1872, he published a large volume called The Underground Railroad [comprising these] escape stories. People don't think about the story of the Underground Railroad through written texts besides newspapers, but these are testimonies. His book is beautiful because you get all these firsthand accounts of the reasons why people wanted to become free, the methods by which they became free, and all the different individuals that helped them along the way.

Mary Ann Shadd Cary was born in 1823, a few years after William Still, in Wilmington, Delaware. She was born free and came from a very wealthy African American family—wealthy at that time—and she was the oldest of thirteen children. Her family was active in helping fugitive slaves, and she acquired a strong abolitionist sentiment and belief at an early age. Her father worked for William Lloyd Garrison at The Liberator, so it's no surprise that, when her family decides to immigrate to Canada, she opens up an antislavery newspaper. She is one of the editors, but, because this is not something that was very common for women to do, she had male editors serve in her stead, and she wrote editorials. She encouraged other blacks to immigrate to Canada. She worked as a writer and educator and abolitionist, and she was the second African American woman to receive a law degree in the United States. She's known as the first black female newspaper editor in North America. The name of the paper she wrote was Provincial Freeman, and I'll close with a quote from her. She says, speaking to enslaved blacks, ""You have a right to your freedom and to every other freedom connected with it, and if you cannot secure these in Virginia or Alabama, by all means, make your escape without delay to some other locality in God's wide universe.""
George Forgie, The Emergence of the Republican Party

The Republican Party is now 166 years old, founded in 1854 as a direct effect of the Kansas-Nebraska Law. From the beginning of our political system, even indeed before the Constitution was ratified, the American people had a kind of unspoken agreement that they would divide the map—they called it a ""compromise"" from time to time—between those areas that would be closed to slavery and those areas that would not be closed to slavery. There was the Northwest Ordinance of 1787; the Compromise of 1820, known as the Missouri Compromise, closing the Louisiana Purchase north of 36° 30' to slavery; and the Compromise of 1850. So far, so good. Then, in 1854, Democrats—Northern and Southern—at the instigation of Stephen A. Douglas and others, overturned the prohibition of slavery north of 36° 30' established by the Missouri Compromise. In the Nebraska territory and the Kansas territory, all of a sudden, slavery was legal all the way up to the Canada line.

The Republican Party was formed almost immediately, specifically to restore the Missouri Compromise. As we can see from the 1856 platform, the Republican Party was preoccupied to the point of obsession with this question of slavery in the territories and preventing slavery from going west—not only restoring the Missouri Compromise, but [preventing] further spread of slavery into the territories at all.

At the time, it was universally accepted as true that if slavery is not growing, it is dying. Here's what would happen: you stop the spread of slavery, and it's confined to the states that have it. Slaves are healthy, they reproduce, the slave population increases. Meanwhile, the soils are depleted, the income of the planter goes down, he has more mouths to feed, less income with which to feed them, he's going bankrupt, and there's no market for the slaves because there's an oversupply. What does the planter begin to do but let them go? Slavery would be self-dismantling in this plan. So, although the Republican Party seems to be preoccupied with something peripheral, it has a strategy for doing away with slavery.

The election of 1860 and the rise of the Republican Party to power can be seen as a ratification, a lagging indicator, of a broad transformation that had been taking place in our country for some time. The slaveholders see this—they see that, if the Republican Party comes to power, it will institute its strangulation policy on slavery, and they see that, if the Republicans come to power, they will stay in power. Democrats are outnumbered, and they begin to think about alternatives. And we know what those alternatives might be.
Randall Fuller, How Writing Influenced Public Opinion

The name of this program is Humanities the Public Square, and, in some ways, the public square in the United States in 1860 was the literary space and written space. That is, it was newspapers where Democrats and Republicans of various stripes argued over this election. But it was also magazines and journals, which held the opinions of some of the most well known writers in the United States at that time. Some of the people that I study are names that you know: Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry David Thoreau, Walt Whitman, James Russell Lowell, and, of course, Harriet Beecher Stowe. They were published in the Atlantic Monthly, Harper's Monthly, and the North American Review. These were journals and publications that were read not just in the North, but in the South as well, and in the middle states. And they were disproportionately Republican. The minute the Republican Party formed, the writers that I just mentioned, the so-called transcendentalists, almost all of them cast their lot immediately with that party.

If 1860 was a revolutionary year, the principal literary writers of the United States had no doubt who that revolutionary figurehead was: John Brown. In October 1859, John Brown and a small group of black and white fellow travelers tried to take over Harper's Ferry federal arsenal in the hopes of fomenting a slave revolution in Virginia and throughout the South. That effort failed, and Brown was quickly captured, and, by December 2, he was hanged. But his example was picked up by a number of New England writers throughout late 1859 and well into 1860. John Brown was front-page news from January to December of 1860. While the writers who were best known in the United States did not weigh in on the election of 1860, they weighed in on John Brown in such a way as to galvanize public opinion—especially in the North, but also in the South, who reacted to the Northern change in public opinion—in enormously influential ways."
"Politics is one conversation that can make every head turn. You can miss sports, movie, the latest trends but you can’t turn your eyes away from diplomacy and country affairs. How is the current government performing and who will win the 2019 Lok Sabha election is always up for debate.

While for us it is just a conversation that takes place over a cup of steaming tea, for Gaurav Pradhan it is a passion that drives him.A top ten global social CIO, cyber security, Information Technology expert, data scientist, strategist, advisor, Pradhan is a brand in himself. He rose to fame in 2013 and since then has acquired thousands of followers. Such is his popularity that even India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi is following him.

What makes this man interesting are his political predictions that are always on point. While media and experts are busy making wild estimates, he accurately tells you in whose favour the wave is moving.

From predicting the 2014 election that changed the phase of India to who will be the next President of United States to predicting on whose lap the Punjab and Uttar Pradesh elections will fall, his analysis has been on point.

He ain’t a psephologist, surely not a numerologist but someone who predicts things based on data and mood of the people.

With 2019 election just around the corner, the country surely wants to know that who will take charge of the Indian democracy this time.

Entrepreneur India caught up with data scientist Gaurav Pradhan at the World AI Show, Mumbai organised by Trescon to know about his observation for the most talked elections.

We started with understanding his analytic techniques, 2014 Indian election, and breakdown of the US polls to how nationalism is the new wave and who will win the 2019 election. Here’s everything about the current political scenario that might give you a new perspective.
Predicting Elections Through Mood Analytics

Who would have thought a person’s mood could actually help you in curating relevant data? For Pradhan, our mood is his reference point and that’s how he gets his predictions right.

“There is something called ‘Mood Analytics’ and I pick up my data points from there. It is based on what people are talking across social media on all the platforms. This gives me a typical idea of the mood that people are going through. Then there is intelligence information, and then geopolitics. What Saudi wants, what Pakistan wants. So if Pakistan wants Hilary and Saudi wants Hilary that means the nation is moving towards Trump. That is the geopolitical relationship,” explains Pradhan.
"
"The midterm election will bring back a divided US government, which means little if any major legislation, and investors may be fine with that. The biggest fights to come—and the biggest question marks—will likely concern trade.

The late Tip O’Neill, speaker of the US House of Representatives in the 1970s and ’80s, liked to say that all politics is local.1 Yet both President Trump and Democrats tried to nationalize Tuesday’s midterm elections, making the results to some extent a referendum on Trump himself.2 Interestingly, however, Trump did not emphasize the strong state of the US economy, much to the chagrin of congressional Republican leaders. Rather, he focused on issues—particularly immigration—that were expected to motivate his political base.3 Exit polls notwithstanding, it is too early to definitively say what motivated voters,4 but in the end, the result was a mixed bag for both parties—although Democrats gained on balance. Most significantly, Democrats took control of the House of Representatives for the first time in eight years, albeit by a modest margin. Republicans retained control of the Senate, where they boosted their small majority. Democrats picked up a number of key governorships, especially in the Midwest and Northeast, though they failed, by a narrow margin, to pick up key races in the South.How can we assess this? On the one hand, the first midterm election of a president’s term usually results in losses for the president’s party.5 This indeed happened. On the other hand, a president’s party often does well in midterms when the economy is strong. This explains, at least in part, the fact that the “blue wave” for which many Democrats had high hopes did not materialize. As such, this midterm was very different from the Obama administration’s first midterm election in 2010, in which it suffered big losses. On the other hand, many key races were very close, including many in which Republicans held onto seats that were seriously challenged. For example, Republicans held onto the governorship in Florida and a Senate seat in Texas, but by unusually small margins. This suggests that, in a different economic environment, Democrats might become quite competitive in previously inhospitable states such as Texas, Georgia, and Florida. Demographic changes have led many Democrats to look forward to the day when these states can be turned.6

What will all of this mean for policies? Democratic control of one house of Congress means that the White House cannot expect to easily achieve major legislation over the next two years. The Republicans would like to make last year’s tax cuts permanent; this is now unlikely to happen. As for spending, there will probably be no significant shift in the trajectory of spending, although it is possible that the two parties will agree to sustain high levels of spending that are currently set to decline in two years. On the regulatory front—at least, regulation that involves Congress as opposed to simply coming out of the White House—not much is likely to happen. As for immigration, the new Congress will not agree to fund (or to continue funding) the much-discussed wall with Mexico.7 Indeed, it is hard to imagine that the administration will agree with the Democrats on anything to do with immigration. On the other hand, the administration could find common ground with the new Democratic majority in the House on such issues as infrastructure investment, paid family leave, drug prices, and raising the federal minimum wage.8 Yet even on these, finding support in the Republican-led Senate would be difficult.

The economic issue that has seen the most significant government actions in 2018 is trade, in large part because the president generally has the authority to act without congressional approval.9 That will remain true, and it is likely that the United States will continue to take harsh action against China, something that appears to be popular with voters across the political spectrum.

The one area of trade policy in which the new Congress will make a difference involves US trade with Mexico and Canada. The Trump administration has negotiated the US Mexico Canada Agreement (USMCA) as a replacement for NAFTA, and it must be approved by both houses of Congress before becoming law. Passage is not guaranteed: While many Democrats agree with the administration’s protectionist bent, and many likely agree with the labor market rules of the new USMCA, it is possible that they will be averse to the agreement nonetheless, reluctant to hand the president a victory. They have learned what Republicans learned during the Clinton years: that is, Bill Clinton reached a number of key agreements with the Republican Congress, but Clinton got most of the credit.10 Thus, during the Obama years, the Republican majority in Congress chose not to reach deals with the president, even on issues, such as trade, on which they actually shared common ground; their goal was to avoid giving Obama the appearance of success.11 Democrats, after two years of pummeling by President Trump, may decide to deny him the appearance of success on the trade deal. If that happens, the original NAFTA will remain in place, unless the administration follows through with its earlier threat to exit NAFTA early in 2019.12 On the other hand, Democrats might be willing to support the USMCA in exchange for something. Moreover, some Midwestern Democrats might be reluctant to reject the agreement on the fear that the alternative (no agreement) could be worse for their districts or states.13 Either way, businesses are likely to face a heightened degree of uncertainty about North American trade for at least the next few months."
"Established in Article II, Section 1 of the U.S. Constitution, the Electoral College is the formal body which elects the President and Vice President of the United States. Each state has as many ""electors"" in the Electoral College as it has Representatives and Senators in the United States Congress, and the District of Columbia has three electors. When voters go to the polls in a Presidential election, they actually are voting for the slate of electors vowing to cast their ballots for that ticket in the Electoral College.
Electors

Most states require that all electoral votes go to the candidate who receives the plurality in that state. After state election officials certify the popular vote of each state, the winning slate of electors meet in the state capital and cast two ballots—one for Vice President and one for President. Electors cannot vote for a Presidential and Vice Presidential candidate who both hail from an elector’s home state.    Maine and Nebraska employ a “district system” in which two at-large electors vote for the state’s popular plurality and one elector votes for each congressional district’s popular plurality. In the November 2, 2004, election, Colorado voters rejected a “proportional system” in which electors would vote proportionally based on the state’s popular vote.

The District of Columbia and 26 states “bind” their electors to vote for their promised candidate, via a number of methods including oaths and fines. In the modern era, very rarely have electors voted for someone other than for whom they pledged. Though still rare, electors more commonly changed their vote in the 19th century—particularly on the vote for Vice President. Such “faithless electors” have never decided a Presidency.

    There has been one faithless elector in each of the following elections: 1948, 1956, 1960, 1968, 1972, 1976, and 1988. A blank ballot was cast in 2000. In 2016, seven electors broke with their state on the presidential ballot and six did so on the vice presidential ballot.

Procedure

Since the mid-20th century, on January 6 at 1:00 pm before a Joint Session of Congress, the Vice President opens the votes from each state in alphabetical order. He passes the votes to four tellers—two from the House and two from the Senate—who announce the results. House tellers include one Representative from each party and are appointed by the Speaker. At the end of the count, the Vice President then declares the name of the next President."
"The release of two Senate-commissioned reports has sparked a new round of panic about Russia manipulating a vulnerable American public on social media. Headlines warn that Russian trolls have tried to suppress the African-American vote, promote Green Party candidate Jill Stein, recruit “assets,” and “sow discord” or “hack the 2016 election” via sex-toy ads and Pokémon Go. “The studies,” writes David Ignatius of The Washington Post, “describe a sophisticated, multilevel Russian effort to use every available tool of our open society to create resentment, mistrust and social disorder,” demonstrating that the Russians, “thanks to the Internet…seem to be perfecting these dark arts.” According to Michelle Goldberg of The New York Times, “it looks increasingly as though” Russian disinformation “changed the direction of American history” in the narrowly decided 2016 election, when “Russian trolling easily could have made the difference.”

The reports, from the University of Oxford’s Computational Propaganda Research Project and the firm New Knowledge, do provide the most thorough look at Russian social-media activity to date. With an abundance of data, charts, graphs, and tables, coupled with extensive qualitative analysis, the authors scrutinize the output of the Internet Research Agency (IRA) the Russian clickbait firm indicted by special counsel Robert Mueller in February 2018. On every significant metric, it is difficult to square the data with the dramatic conclusions that have been drawn.

• 2016 Election Content: The most glaring data point is how minimally Russian social-media activity pertained to the 2016 campaign. The New Knowledge report acknowledges that evaluating IRA content “purely based on whether it definitively swung the election is too narrow a focus,” as the “explicitly political content was a small percentage.” To be exact, just “11% of the total content” attributed to the IRA and 33 percent of user engagement with it “was related to the election.” The IRA’s posts “were minimally about the candidates,” with “roughly 6% of tweets, 18% of Instagram posts, and 7% of Facebook posts” having “mentioned Trump or Clinton by name.” "
"The US–Russian relationship is a limited partnership where cooperation and competition co-exist. The new administration will work to maintain the post-reset status quo over the next four years.

Since the Soviet collapse, Russia has been an issue in every US presidential election campaign. In 2008, Democrats accused the George W. Bush administration of endangering US security by needlessly antagonising Vladimir Putin’s Russia and raising the level of tension between the two countries, especially during and after the Russo-Georgia war. Four years later, in 2012, the Barack Obama re-election campaign showcased the accomplishments of the reset policy. For its part, Republican nominee Mitt Romney’s campaign faulted the administration for treating the Kremlin with kid gloves when Russia was, according to Romney, the United States’ ‘number one geopolitical foe’ because it ‘fights every cause for the world’s worst actors’.1

Two Presidential Elections

This is a two-way street. The US–Russia relationship also emerged as a contentious issue in the run-up to Putin’s re-election as president; in fact it loomed considerably larger in Russia than in the United States. AntiAmericanism became a central theme of Putin’s campaign in reaction to the rise of an unexpected opposition protest movement after the contested December 2011 Duma elections; the movement continued during and after the March presidential elections. Clearly caught unawares by the size and strength of a heterogeneous opposition movement that included everything from communists to liberals to nationalists, the Putin team pointed a finger at nefarious foreign influences out to weaken Russia. It blamed the United States for financing the protests, an accusation that found resonance with Putin’s provincial working-class base. US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who had spoken out against vote fraud in the Duma elections, came in for special criticism. Putin accused her of ‘giving a signal’ to opposition leaders, claiming that the US State Department paid protesters to go out into the streets.2

During the presidential campaign, Putin’s dualistic view of the United States was on full display. In a lengthy article on foreign policy published shortly before his election, very much in the vein of his 2007 speech at the Munich Security Conference, he accused Americans of being ‘obsessed with the idea of becoming absolutely invulnerable’ and warning that ‘absolute invulnerability for one country would in theory require absolute vulnerability for all others’.3 Nevertheless, he held out the prospect of improved relations if Washington could rid itself of its Cold War stereotypes.

Even after the election, criticism of alleged fomenting of opposition groups by the United States continued. The Kremlin introduced legal measures both to clamp down on domestic groups and to restrict the ability of foreign governments and non-governmental organisations to support civil society in Russia. Russians receiving money from abroad may now have to register as foreign agents irrespective of who their sponsors are. When the Foreign Ministry announced that USAID, the foreign-aid branch of the State Department that has been active in Russia since the early 1990s, would have to leave by 1 October, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov stressed that Russia was no longer in need of assistance. Putin himself emphasised the primacy of sovereignty and the illegitimacy of attempts by foreign countries to interfere in Russia’s domestic affairs. Similarly, Russian officials justified the non-renewal of the 20-year-old Nunn–Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction programme by stressing that Russia had recovered its international influence and would no longer be party to programmes whose agendas were set in the United States and which treated Russia as a country in need of assistance. Altogether, public antiAmericanism has increased since Putin’s return to the Kremlin, although the Russian president insists that he is willing to work with the United States, describing Obama as an ‘honest person who really wants to change much for the better.’4"
"

After months of investigations and media reports into possible absentee-ballot fraud, we finally have a decision in the disputed election in the North Carolina 9th Congressional District: There will be a new election. This will be the first time that a congressional election has been redone since 1975.

On Thursday, the North Carolina State Board of Elections voted 5-0 to hold a do-over election after hearing evidence that an illegal absentee-ballot scheme cast doubt on the outcome of the original election — which Republican Mark Harris initially appeared to have won by just 905 votes.

Under current law, the 9th District will have to host both a new primary and a new general election.1 It’s still unknown when the new election will be held, but the campaign could take as long as five months from start to finish.2 In one possible timeline, a primary would be held over the summer, a potential runoff would be scheduled for September and the general election would be in November.

Who might run in a new election? On the GOP side, it was previously assumed that Harris would run again, but given that he said during the hearing that he was still suffering the effects of serious recent health problems, that now seems less certain. Multiple other Republicans are already reportedly eyeing a campaign, and Harris’s opponent in last year’s race, Democrat Dan McCready, may be gearing up to run again, too.

At this stage, it’s hard to know how the new election will play out. But what we do know is that the North Carolina 9th District is 14 points more Republican-leaning than the country as a whole.3 However, the district’s previous election was one of the closest races of 2018, and the Cook Political Report has already rated the new election a “Toss Up.” Furthermore, in 2017 and 2018, oddly timed special elections for federal office saw Democrats overperform the partisan leans of their district by an average of 16 points (although that’s certainly subject to change in 2019). McCready, an ex-Marine who raised $6.7 million last cycle, also proved to be a strong Democratic candidate; if he is the Democratic nominee again in the new election, as seems likely, the race could once again be close. And if Harris is the Republican nominee, Democrats might even be favored in the race. Local Republicans reportedly believe that Harris’s ties to the illegal absentee-ballot operation have made him virtually unelectable, and we know from countless previous elections that scandals like this one drag down candidates who are implicated in them.

The state board of elections’ vote came at the end of a long–delayed evidentiary hearing that started Monday and wrapped up on Thursday. Right off the bat, the board said that they had evidence that “a coordinated, unlawful, and substantially resourced absentee ballot scheme operated during the 2018 general election.” The hearing went on to provide evidence that backed up earlier media reports that McCrae Dowless, a campaign consultant for Harris, coordinated an illegal absentee-ballot scheme centered on Bladen County, on the eastern end of the district. State investigators also found that the Bladen County elections office was not physically secure and that preliminary results from Bladen County may have gotten into the wrong hands.

On Wednesday afternoon, Harris’s son John Harris testified that he had told his father that he believed Dowless’s methods were illegal after his father first met with Dowless. This contradicted public statements that the elder Harris made previously, in which he told multiple media outlets that no one had raised any red flags about Dowless. And finally, on Thursday, Harris himself took the stand, but he didn’t testify for long. He said that a recent illness had left him confused and prone to memory loss, and that he now believed, given everything he had heard at the hearing, that a new election was warranted.

It was stark retreat from what had been the Republican position as recently as Tuesday, when the executive director of the state party insisted that the number of ballots allegedly tampered with didn’t justify calling a new election. Harris’s turnaround was a remarkable admission of the weight of the evidence against Dowless — as well as how untenable Harris’s position had become politically.


"
"After the Federal Election Commission hit the Jeb Bush-affiliated Right to Rise super PAC with a record fine for illegally soliciting donations from foreign donors, focus has shifted to how many foreign-owned companies actually participate in American elections. The answer? Quite a few.

Foreign-based corporations or U.S. subsidiaries of foreign-based corporations have contributed millions of dollars to super PACs and hybrid PACs following Citizens United v. FEC, the 2010 Supreme Court ruling that opened up federal elections to direct corporate contributions.

Foreign nationals are barred from contributing to federal committees. However, a foreign corporation’s U.S. subsidiary is allowed to contribute to outside spending groups such as super PACs as long as no foreign national directs the contribution.London-based British American Tobacco acquired Reynolds American, Inc. in July 2017 after owning a major stake in the U.S. company since 2004. Following the transaction, RAI ramped up its political giving, doling out $1.2 million to super PACs, more than any other domestic subsidiary in the 2018 cycle."
"

election, choosing a candidate for office in an organization by the vote of those enfranchised to cast a ballot.

General History

In ancient Greek democracies (e.g., Athens) public officials were occasionally elected but more often were chosen by lot. In Rome the popular assemblies elected the tribunes. In the Middle Ages elections were abandoned, except for such processes as elections to the papacy and, in a more limited sense, of the Holy Roman emperor by a small and partly hereditary body of electors.

In the modern period, elections have been inseparable from the growth of democratic forms of government. Elections were associated with the parliamentary process in England from the 13th cent. and were gradually regularized by acts prescribing the frequency of elections (the Triennial Act of 1694, and the Septennial Act of 1716), by successive reform bills widening the franchise in the 19th cent., and by the adoption of the secret ballot in 1872.

Elections in the United States

In colonial America the election of church and public officials dates almost from the founding of the Plymouth Colony, and the paper ballot was instituted in elections to the Massachusetts governorship in 1634. Under the U.S. Constitution the right to hold elections is specified, but the method and place are left to the states, with Congress having the power to alter their regulations. The Constitution specified that elections to the House of Representatives be direct, or popular, and that the election of the Senate and of the president and vice president be indirect, Senators being chosen by the state legislatures and the president and vice president by electors selected by the people (see electoral college). The Seventeenth Amendment (1913) provided for popular election of senators.

Political candidates are usually chosen by delegate convention, direct primary, nonpartisan primaries, or petition. The candidate who receives the most votes is usually elected, but an absolute majority may be required; a majority has not been required in the U.S. federal elections since 1850 except in the electoral vote cast for the president and vice president. (In presidential nominating conventions an absolute majority is required; the Democrats required a two-thirds vote of the delegates from 1832 to 1936.)
"
" President Trump remains a huge favorite to win renomination as the Republican presidential nominee, although he will have at least some opposition.
The New Hampshire primary has historically tested the strength of presidential incumbents.
In the primary’s modern history, incumbents who won easy victories went on to renomination and reelection, while those who struggled lost in the fall or didn’t run again.
That said, we’re only talking about a dozen total contests, so don’t make any strong predictions based on the president’s New Hampshire showing. But depending on the circumstances, Trump’s eventual performance may provide some clues for the general election.
Presidential incumbents in the New Hampshire primary: A modern history

Last week, we assessed how a large field, proportional delegate allocation rules, and a frontloaded primary calendar might impact the Democratic presidential primary field. Such a granular analysis of the Republican presidential primary process does not seem warranted at this point, given that not only does President Donald Trump retain strong approval ratings among Republicans, but he also does not at this point face a significant rival for renomination.

As of now, Trump’s most prominent intraparty opponent is William Weld, a former Republican governor of Massachusetts who most recently was the Libertarian Party vice presidential nominee in 2016. Weld, who officially announced his challenge to Trump earlier this week, is not an unserious candidate or person. But it would be a stretch to call Weld a major challenger to Trump. We’ll have to wait and see if a bigger-name Republican, like Gov. Larry Hogan (R-MD) or former Gov. John Kasich (R-OH), ultimately decides to enter the race. Their decision-making is likely predicated on whether Trump’s approval with Republicans significantly dips over the course of 2019. So far, there hasn’t been any evidence of that, as Trump consistently scores approval ratings from his own party in excess of 80%.

In other words, there’s not much suggesting that Trump is in any real trouble within his own party, and he is, at least for now, a towering favorite to be his party’s standard-bearer in 2020.

That said, Trump will not be formally unopposed, and one assumes that Weld, a northeasterner, will try to make some sort of dent in Trump in New Hampshire, which in 2020 will celebrate its 100th year of leading the presidential primary season. It would be shocking if Trump lost New Hampshire, but he also won’t get 100% of the vote, as Weld and other candidates — surely ones even lesser known than Weld, and potentially ones better known — will pull votes from the incumbent. So it’s worth pondering: What share of the vote for Trump would represent a promising, or ominous, sign for him based on history?

New Hampshire has a long primary history, and it zealously guards its first-in-the-nation status. The Granite State held its first presidential primary in 1916, and it began to lead the nation in 1920. At that time, voters chose convention delegates whose candidate preferences were not indicated on the ballot, making it an imperfect measure of popular support. Still, the primary did exert some influence even then. For instance, New Hampshire Democratic voters in 1932 elected a slate of delegates pledged to Franklin D. Roosevelt over one that backed Al Smith, the 1928 Democratic nominee and FDR’s predecessor as governor of New York. But the primary’s modern importance really traces back to 1952; in advance of that crucial year, the state amended its primary to let voters directly vote for individual presidential candidates. Starting that year, there have been a dozen instances where an incumbent president was tested by the Granite State’s primary voters. "
"During the 2018 midterm elections, voter participation was more than 10 percentage points higher than it was in the 2014 midterm elections, demonstrating Americans’ demand for change and increased enthusiasm for exercising their civic duty to vote.1 That said, nearly 120 million eligible Americans did not participate in the November elections.Widespread voter suppression—particularly against historically marginalized groups—is a reoccurring problem in the United States. Each election cycle, untold numbers of eligible Americans are prevented from voting due to barriers in the voter registration process, restrictions on casting ballots, and discriminatory and partisan-rigged district maps. Voter suppression measures can differ by state and even by individual county. And while some voter suppression measures actively seek to discriminate against certain groups, others result from innocent administrative errors and glitches. Regardless of its form or intent, however, voter suppression is relentlessly effective in preventing voting-eligible Americans from contributing to the electoral process.

This year—perhaps uncoincidentally—severe voter suppression occurred in states with highly competitive political races, including Georgia, Texas, Florida, and North Dakota. Policies and practices that limit participation by even a few thousand votes can mean the difference between victory and defeat in competitive elections. When voters cast a ballot, they expect their votes to matter in choosing representatives who are responsive to, reflective of, and accountable to the communities they represent. Yet when voter suppression occurs, election results may be less reflective of constituents’ actual will.

This report describes some of the voter suppression measures and other Election Day problems that potentially kept millions of eligible Americans from participating in the 2018 midterm elections. "
"Donald Trump has adopted many contradictory positions since taking office, but he has been unwavering on one point: that Russia played no role in putting him in the Oval Office. Trump dismisses the idea that Russian interference affected the outcome of the 2016 election, calling it a “made-up story,” “ridiculous,” and “a hoax.” He finds the subject so threatening to his legitimacy that—according to “The Perfect Weapon,” a recent book on cyber sabotage by David Sanger, of the Times—aides say he refuses even to discuss it. In public, Trump has characterized all efforts to investigate the foreign attacks on American democracy during the campaign as a “witch hunt”; in March, he insisted that “the Russians had no impact on our votes whatsoever.”

Few people, including Trump’s opponents, have publicly challenged the widespread belief that no obtainable evidence can prove that Russian interference changed any votes. Democrats, for the most part, have avoided attributing Hillary Clinton’s defeat directly to Russian machinations. They have more readily blamed James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, for reversing Clinton’s thin lead in the final days of the campaign by reopening a criminal investigation into her mishandling of classified e-mails. Many have also expressed frustration with Clinton’s weak performance as a candidate, and with her campaign’s tactical errors. Instead of investigating whether Russia tipped the electoral scales on its own, they’ve focussed on the possibility that Trump colluded with Russia, and that this, along with other crimes, might be exposed by the probe being conducted by the special counsel, Robert Mueller."
"“A lot of people are going to be rushing to Iowa, rushing to New Hampshire,” a reporter began. “You know that the Democrats are already looking ahead to 2020. Do you want to lock down your ticket right now, sir? Will the vice-president be your running mate in 2020?”

The president was surprised to be put on the spot.

“Well,” he said, “I haven’t asked him but I hope so.” He looked around the crowded East Room of the White House. “Where are you? Mike, will you be my running mate? Stand up, Mike, please. Raise your right hand.”“That was unexpected,” Trump admitted. “But I feel very fine.”

The midterms signals were mixed. Democrats won the House of Representatives but Republicans tightened their grip on the Senate – as Trump tightened his grip on the party.

It was like an awkward, very public, wedding proposal. Mike Pence, hardly known for his joie de vivre, had to play along. As the room erupted in laughter, he mustered a smile, stood up and half-raised his hand.

Trump asked: “Will you? Thank you, OK good. The answer is ‘Yes’. OK?”

The on-the-hoof declaration at a typically helter-skelter press conference on Wednesday seemed as fitting a way as any to draw a line under the midterm elections and look ahead to the race for the presidency."
"If candidates are searching for the right marketing mix in 2016, they need look no further than the last few election cycles.

Doug J. Chung, an assistant professor of business administration at Harvard Business School, did just that in his recent working paper. Along with colleague Lingling Zhang, Chung built a data set analyzing voter preferences in the last three election cycles in so-called “battleground states.” The study looked at four different instruments (a candidate’s own advertising, outside advertising, retail campaigning, and field operations) and found some stark differences along party lines and between the tactics.

Among the most notable findings:
Voters were more heavily influenced by a candidate’s own advertising than outside advertising (such as those sponsored by Political Action Committees)
Mass media advertising and retail campaigning were more effective for Republican candidates
Field operations (like get-out-the-vote efforts) were more effective for Democrats candidates

The latter played a large role in Barack Obama’s two campaigns, Chung said, particularly in 2012 where the polls showed the candidates neck-and-neck before Obama achieved a landslide victory in the Electoral College. The Obama and Romney campaigns spent $2.3 billion that year, making it the most expensive U.S. presidential election in history. But unlike in typical marketing scenarios, where all participants earn some market share for their efforts, elections are winner-take-all."
"The world’s largest online social network, with 1.5 billion daily users, has stopped short of banning all false or misleading posts, something that Facebook has shied away from as it would likely increase its expenses and leave it open to charges of censorship.

The latest move addresses a sensitive area for the company, which has come under fire for its lax approach to fake news reports and disinformation campaigns, which many believe affected the outcome of the 2016 presidential election, won by Donald Trump.

The new policy was disclosed by Facebook’s cybersecurity policy chief, Nathaniel Gleicher, and other company executives.

The ban on false information about voting methods, set to be announced later on Monday, comes six weeks after Senator Ron Wyden asked Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg how Facebook would counter posts aimed at suppressing votes, such as by telling certain users they could vote by text, a hoax that has been used to reduce turnout in the past.

The information on voting methods becomes one of the few areas in which falsehoods are prohibited on Facebook, a policy enforced by what the company calls “community standards” moderators, although application of its standards has been uneven. It will not stop the vast majority of untruthful posts about candidates or other election issues.
We don’t believe we should remove things from Facebook that are shared by authentic people if they don’t violate those community standards, even if they are false,” said Tessa Lyons, product manager for Facebook’s News Feed feature that shows users what friends are sharing.

Links to discouraging reports about polling places that may be inflated or misleading will be referred to fact-checkers under the new policy, Facebook said. If then marked as false, the reports will not be removed but will be seen by fewer of the poster’s friends. 
"
"With an election looming, courts earlier this year declared congressional districts in two states to be unconstitutional partisan gerrymanders. One map was redrawn. The other was not.

The sharply contrasting outcomes that resulted on Election Day in Pennsylvania and North Carolina illustrate the importance of how political lines are drawn — and the stakes for the nation because that process helps determine which party controls Congress.

Pennsylvania flipped from a solid Republican congressional delegation to one evenly split under a map redrawn by court order, contributing to the Democratic takeover of the U.S. House. Despite an almost even split in the popular vote, North Carolina's congressional delegation remained overwhelmingly Republican under a map drawn by the GOP.

""We did everything we could,"" Democrat Kathy Manning said. ""But we just could not overcome the gerrymandering, and that's the way the district was designed to run.""

Manning held more than 400 campaign events, contacted tens of thousands of voters and had outspent the Republican incumbent in North Carolina's 13th District — but still lost by 6 percentage points in a district Republicans drew to favor their candidates.

Partisan gerrymandering has been carried out by both Democrats and Republicans throughout U.S. history. But an Associated Press statistical analysis based on 2016 election data found that more states had Republican-tilted districts than Democratic ones. Some of the largest GOP congressional advantages were in North Carolina and Pennsylvania, where Republicans fully controlled redistricting after the 2010 Census."
"New filings by special counsel Robert S. Mueller III on Friday provided fresh clues about where the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election is headed. Mueller’s filing said President Trump’s former personal attorney, Michael Cohen, was contacted in 2015 by a “Russian national” seeking “synergy” between Trump’s campaign and the Russian government. The special counsel’s team also said Paul Manafort, Trump’s former campaign chairman, lied about meeting with Konstantin Kilimnik, whom the U.S. government has linked to Russian intelligence.

The Mueller filings made news, of course. But how much has what we know about Trump and Russia really changed since 2016? Not as much as you might think.

On the Friday before the Democratic National Convention in July 2016, Russian agents released, through WikiLeaks, thousands of emails stolen from the DNC. The timing caused maximum harm at a critical moment in the Democratic contest. As campaign manager for Hillary Clinton, I appeared two days later on two Sunday political talk shows, ready for an avalanche of questions about the emails, which I got. But rather than focusing on the content of the documents, I thought it was important to discuss why they were released in the first place."
"
iStock

On Tuesday, December 19, 2017, Democrat Shelly Simonds won a seat in the Virginia House of Delegates by a single vote in a narrow-as-narrow-can-get victory. Though a court quickly tossed out Simonds's victory, and she eventually ended up conceding to her Republican opponent, it's not the only time an election came down to a single ballot. Though a one-vote win is rare, it has happened before. On more than one occasion. Here are 10 other elections where every vote really did count.

1. United States House of Representatives elections occur more frequently (every two years) with more seats (435 since 1911, with 437 between 1959 and 1962) than any other electable federal office in the country. So it only makes sense there would be more close House calls than those for President, where Bush squeezed by Gore in Florida by a certified count of 537 in 2000, or the U.S Senate, where a two-vote margin led to a revote in a 1974 New Hampshire election. But only one time in the 20th or 21st century has a single vote made the difference in roughly 18,000 House elections: a 1910 contest for Buffalo, New York’s congressional district, where Democrat Charles B. Smith snuck by incumbent De Alva S. Alexander by a single vote, 20,685 to 20,684 (although a later recount upped that winning margin slightly).

2. Oddly, the only modern instance of a United Kingdom parliamentary election being decided by a single vote also occurred in 1910, when Conservative Henry Duke eked out a victory against Liberal Harold St. Maur in the South West England city of Exeter. St. Maur, the challenger, originally won by a four-vote count, but following an electoral petition and a series of subsequent challenges, the incumbent Duke maintained his seat at the House of Commons table by the very slimmest of margins, 4777 to 4776."
"Election Day in the United States of America is the Tuesday following the first Monday in November. It can fall on or between November 2 and November 8. It is the day when popular ballots are held to select public officials. These include national, state and local government representatives at all levels up to the president.
Is Election Day a Public Holiday?

Election Day is a public holiday. It is a day off for the general population, and schools and most businesses are closed.On Election Day, citizens of the United States of America can vote by popular ballot for candidates for public offices at local, state and national levels. In even numbered years, federal elections are always held. In years divisible by four, presidential elections are always held. Elections for local and state officials may be held in odd or even-numbered years, depending on local and state laws.

The way in which people vote depends on the state in which they live. In Oregon, all votes are cast by post and all votes have to be received at a given time on Election Day. In the state of Washington, nearly all people vote by post and the envelopes containing the voting papers have to be postmarked with the date of Election Day. In other states, people vote at voting stations, where long queues can form."
"The trade war of 2018 was, in theory, supposed to hurt Republicans in states vulnerable to higher tariffs and Chinese retaliation. The results from Tuesday’s midterm elections suggest that didn’t really happen.Republican Congressman Mike Bost retained his seat in Illinois’ 12th district, beating Democrat Brendan Kelly. Bost, whose district includes the Granite City Works mill operated by U.S. Steel, supported Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum. Bost was leading before the vote, polls suggested.
Democrat Heidi Heitkamp lost her Senate seat in North Dakota, falling to Republican Kevin Cramer. Heitkamp was trailing by nine points in polls before the vote. During the campaign, she attacked Trump’s tariffs and sought to capitalize on angst among soybean farmers hit by Chinese retaliation.
Republican Martha McSally was narrowly leading in Arizona, though the race still remained too close to call by Wednesday. Her opponent Kyrsten Sinema warned that Trump’s tariffs were hurting Arizona businesses and farmers.
Democrat Sherrod Brown retained his Senate seat in Ohio, beating Republican Jim Renacci. Brown lined up behind the president on trade, supporting the steel tariffs.

President Donald Trump’s tariffs were a hot topic in farming regions and the Rust Belt -- places with a lot to lose in the dispute with China, which countered with duties on iconic American exports from soybeans to lobsters. Yet several candidates who opposed Trump’s tariffs were defeated, while some who backed the duties won their races.

The outcome gives the U.S. president little incentive to soften his hawkish trade strategy. A potential turning point is coming at the end of this month, when the president is expected to meet Chinese President Xi Jinping at the Group of 20 summit in Argentina.

Here’s how Tuesday’s results played out in races where trade was a big issue:
Key Trade Races

    Democrat Claire McCaskill lost her Senate seat in Missouri to Republican Josh Hawley. McCaskill warned that Trump’s trade war is hurting farmers, ranchers and manufacturers in the state. The race was a tossup heading into the election, according to political site "
"The results of the 2018 midterm elections—and of Democrats’ efforts to retake the U.S. House of Representatives and stem Republican gains in the Senate—will all depend on turnout. Historically speaking, though, voting in midterm elections isn’t something that a majority of Americans do. In 2014, just a little more than one third of eligible voters cast ballots, the lowest share since 1942, according to the United States Elections Project.

Even in the last presidential election, just 56 percent of could-be voters showed up to the polls. In fact, in hundreds of counties around the U.S., the number of eligible individuals who did not vote far outweighed the number of ballots actually cast for Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton in 2016. If those millions of no-shows had picked “nobody” on the ballot—the effective choice of their abstention—“nobody” would have won in a landslide."
The Republican party lost control of the House as Democrats capitalised on anti-Trump anger and the retirement of a large number of incumbent Republicans. Of the 111 seats rated “competitive” by the Cook Political Report, 98 were Republican-held.The Republicans increased their previous 51-49 Senate majority by two seats. The Democrats needed a net gain of two seats to take control, but were defending 26 of the 35 seats up for election including 10 in states won by Donald Trump in 2016.
"Debunking the Voter Fraud Myth

The president has continued to claim voter fraud was a problem in the 2016 election. But a look at the facts makes clear fraud is vanishingly rare, and does not happen on a scale even close to that necessary to “rig” an election.
January 31, 2017

[Download PDF]

Sensationalist claims have circulated this election season about the extent of voter fraud, with some politicians going so far as to tell voters to fear that this November’s election will be “rigged.” Because electoral integrity is one of the elements necessary to making America the greatest democracy in the world, claims like this garner media attention, and frighten and concern voters. But putting rhetoric aside to look at the facts makes clear that fraud by voters at the polls is vanishingly rare, and does not happen on a scale even close to that necessary to “rig” an election.

Studies Agree: Impersonation Fraud by Voters Very Rarely Happens

    The Brennan Center’s seminal report on this issue, The Truth About Voter Fraud, found that most reported incidents of voter fraud are actually traceable to other sources, such as clerical errors or bad data matching practices. The report reviewed elections that had been meticulously studied for voter fraud, and found incident rates between 0.0003 percent and 0.0025 percent. Given this tiny incident rate for voter impersonation fraud, it is more likely, the report noted, that an American “will be struck by lightning than that he will impersonate another voter at the polls.”"
"A New York Times article this month revealed a new tactic in the US war against election disinformation. US election officials had notified Russians suspected of involvement in online disinformation campaigns in the lead up to the mid-term elections that they were “on notice”, and that their work was being tracked.

The individuals concerned, members of oligarch funded hacking groups and Russian intel operatives, have not been publicly named. But they have been alerted to US knowledge of their activities, presumably in an attempt to stymie their attempts to influence US election outcomes. This is first known overseas cyber operation to protect American elections, and it marks a shift in US cyber campaigning on disinformation that likely has its basis in new offensive capabilities contained in the new White House Cybersecurity Strategy."
"he U.S. midterm elections give Americans the opportunity to rearrange the political makeup of the U.S. Congress in both the Senate and the House of Representatives every two years.
Examples of Midterm Election Impact

Falling right in the middle of the four-year term of the President of the United States, the midterm elections are often viewed as an opportunity to express satisfaction or frustration with the president's performance. In practice, it is not uncommon for the minority political party (the party not controlling the White House) to gain seats in Congress during the midterm election.

In each midterm election, one-third of the 100 Senators (who serve six-year terms), and all 435 Members of the House of Representatives (who serve for two years) are up for reelection.
Election of Representatives

Since becoming federal law in 1911, the number of members in the U.S. House of Representatives has remained at 435. All 435 representatives are up for reelection in each mid-term congressional election. The number of representatives from each state is determined by the state's population as reported in the decennial U.S. Census. Through a process called ""apportionment,"" each state is divided into a number of congressional districts. One representative is elected from each congressional district. While all registered voters in a state may vote for senators, only the registered voters residing in the congressional district that the candidate will represent may vote for representatives.

As required by Article I, Section 2 of the Constitution, to be elected as a U.S. Representative a person must be at least 25 years of age when sworn in, have been a U.S. citizen for at least seven years, and must be a resident of the state from which he or she is elected.
"
"Special counsel Robert Mueller has given us the gift of truth, meticulously laid out in a 448-page document that proves beyond doubt that our democracy has been severely compromised. Forces that despise everything our nation stands for have jeopardized the values that Americans deem most precious.

We have been under attack for a very long time, and little has been done to stop it.

In the second paragraph of the report, Mueller declared that the Russian government “interfered in the 2016 presidential election in sweeping and systematic fashion.” It went on to reveal the far-reaching scope of Russian leader Vladimir Putin’s blatant campaign to elect Donald Trump to office.

And it documented in no uncertain terms that Trump, though maybe not complicit, was at least amenable to the idea.

The information in the report reaffirms and offers more insight into what U.S. intelligence officials already had uncovered about the 2016 meddling — that Russian trolls used bogus social media accounts and other cyberspace activities to dupe Americans."
"When I flew out to San Francisco for the RSA Convention (RSAC) in early March, I planned to attend all the election security talks I could fit into my schedule. It's an obvious choice. While the 2018 midterms concluded without much controversy, we're still fighting over the 2016 presidential election, and we're halfway to the next one. That's in addition to the US system of casting and counting votes being, at best, a barely functional shambles.

(Editors' Note: This is the first in a series of weekly columns where security and VPN expert Max Eddy analyzes the online security landscape and dispenses the advice you need to stay safe in today's digital world. Check out SecurityWatch for more.)I expected the usual doom-and-gloom about election security, with researchers bemoaning the sorry state of voting machines in the US. I was even looking forward to it, because you have to be a little masochistic to be in this industry. There was a bit of the usual misery, but I wasn't prepared for a double whammy of optimism and despair. I left convinced that we've actually sorted out the most pressing of the technological problems with voting. What has us stumped is the other stuff.

And that's a lot of stuff."
"If there's one thing that united Democrats and Republicans in the Reagan era (besides their unfortunate fixation with perms), it was their near universal hatred of weed. Everybody was a cop back then. Walter Mondale, the Democratic candidate for president in 1984, called for another ""War on Drugs"" — all drugs. Ronald Reagan, for his part, believed that marijuana was ""probably the most dangerous drug in the United States.""

Fast forward to the 2020 election, when politicians have largely done an about-face, at least when it comes to weed. Politicians aren't just campaigning for medical marijuana, they're advocating for recreational marijuana to be legalized: explicitly, vocally, and on their campaign pages.

Were it not for the hundreds of thousands of people arrested for marijuana law violations every year, it's almost like the past 40 years of aggressive anti-marijuana drug policy didn't exist. 

Here's what Daniel Mallinson, assistant professor of public policy and administration at Penn State Harrisburg, thinks of the tectonic political and cultural shift on marijuana legalization:

""It started in the liberal states. There was a big political shift there that has since shifted to more conservative, battleground states — specifically when it comes to medical marijuana,"" Mallinson told Mashable in a phone interview. ""Even the majority of Republicans now support some form of legalization. That's a rapid political shift among individuals that's now being captured in state policy and brought to the national level.""

Recreational marijuana is now legal in 10 states and Washington, DC, while medical marijuana is legal in 33. And the remarkable historical progress is only expected to grow.

Mallinson isn't surprised to see Democratic candidates latching onto this issue:

"
"One evening last May in Knoxville, Tennessee, during the night of the local primary election, Dave Ball, the assistant IT director for Knox County, settled into the Naugahyde chair of his dusty home office and punched away at his desktop computer. Ball’s IT staff had finished a 14-hour day, running dress rehearsals to prepare for the ritual chaos of election night.

In a few minutes, at exactly 8 pm, the county’s incoming precinct results would become visible to the public online. Curious, Ball typed in the address for the Knox County election website.

At 7:53, the website abruptly crashed. Staring back at Ball was a proxy error notice, a gray message plastered against a screen of purgatorial white. It read simply, “Service Unavailable.” Across East Tennessee, thousands of Knox County residents who eagerly awaited the results saw the same error message — including at the late-night election parties for various county candidates, where supporters gathered around computers at Knoxville’s Crowne Plaza Hotel and the nearby Clarion Inn and Suites."
Republicans are on offense in the Senate, where they’re hoping to add to their current two-seat majority. Ten Democratic senators are facing re-election in states President Trump won in 2016, five of which he took by double digits. To have a chance at controlling the Senate at the end of the night, Democrats will have to cut their losses in these 10 states, pick up seats in states like Nevada and Arizona -- two states that have been trending blue in recent years -- and potentially flip a seat in a traditionally red state like Tennessee or Texas. It’s an uphill climb for Democrats, who lost control of the Senate during the 2014 midterms.
"How many seats do Democrats need to flip? Just one Senate seat. If they do that and hold the House, and Democrat Jared Polis wins the governor’s race, Democrats would have the trifecta for state control in Colorado. Right now, Democrats have total control in only eight states, according to the NCSL. Meanwhile, Republicans fully control 25 states.

How do voters here feel about their governor and President Trump? These metrics seemed like the best way to approximate how voters in every state feel about the national political environment, as well as their current state leadership.

President Trump is fairly unpopular in Colorado: 42 percent approve and 55 percent disapprove of him as of July, according to Morning Consult. Outgoing Democratic Gov. John Hickenlooper, on the other hand, enjoys 53 percent approval and just 30 percent disapproval, per the latest Morning Consult findings.

What are the specific races to watch? The Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee has identified 17 seats in eight states that could flip state legislative chambers this fall.

For Colorado, they are targeting the 24th Senate district, currently represented by Republican Sen. Beth Martinez Humenik, first elected in 2014. The Democratic candidate challenging Humenik is Faith Winter, a member of the House.

According to data compiled by the Daily Kos, this district voted 50-40 for Trump in the 2016 election. Democrats are likely banking on the big swings they’ve seen in places like Wisconsin and elsewhere, where Democratic candidates have prevailed in recent special elections in areas that Trump had won significantly."
"Tuesday’s midterm election is about many things. It’s about health care and immigration. It’s about the economy. It’s about power and who will hold it, both in Washington and in the states. Above all, it’s about something more elemental: what kind of country Americans see today and want to see in the future. That makes these midterms unlike any in the recent past.

Talk to voters almost anywhere about what this election means to them, and the answer almost invariably involves personal feelings about President Trump and perceptions about the overall state of the country. This debate about America’s divisions has been underway for some time, but Trump has raised the emotional level to something not seen before.

This is an election that is being fought in individual districts and states, with traditional tools: money, advertising and boots on the ground. Television ads by Democrats hammer Republicans on this or that issue; Republican ads hammer Democrats. Money is coursing through congressional campaigns at levels not seen before. Voter mobilization is as sophisticated and robust as it has ever been. At the margins, those weapons can make a difference."
"The midterm elections are rapidly approaching, and their outcome will have serious, sweeping implications for the future of the country. But given how complex they are, it can be hard to wrap your head around exactly what's at stake in this election. Thankfully, there are some articles you can read about the 2018 midterms that will help shed light on what's going down on Tuesday.

Although they typically don't command as much media attention — or voter participation — as presidential elections, midterms are incredibly important. They determine which party controls Congress, which in turn determines what laws do and don't get passed. The midterm elections affect everything from Supreme Court appointments and trade treaties to voting laws, investigations into the president, and the shape of congressional districts.

On Tuesday, Americans will determine who controls 35 Senate seats, 36 governor's mansions, and all 435 seats in the House of Representatives. The ballot will also feature candidates for various state and local offices, such as school boards and state legislatures, and many important ballot propositions.

The exact choices you'll face on Tuesday depends on which state you live in. But you'd like a general understand of what's going on in these elections, here are some must-read articles about the upcoming midterms."
" Beyond the numbers that continue to flesh out in the House and Senate, a number of individual candidates pushed through the election night noise to make history — and women were elected in record numbers.

Additionally, exit polls revealed key issues on voters’ minds — and health care, which voters largely favor the Democrats to control, is number one.
(Midterms deliver crop of barrier-breaking victors from LGBT winners to record numbers of women)
(Key exit poll takeaways: Voters negative on Trump, most interested in health care. immigration)

Here are the key takeaways:
Democrats take the House

The House flipped blue well before results were in from California — one of the largest, traditionally blue states in the country.

Democrats, who needed a net gain of 23 seats to take control of the House, are expected to grab between 32 and 36 seats, according to a projection by ABC News.
(MORE: Democrats ride blue wave to victory, expected to grab up to 36 seats in the House, ABC News projects)

“We’ve become a 50 state party again,” Tom Perez, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, told ABC News’ George Stephanopoulos, mentioning races won in traditionally red districts.

One such district that showed the range of seats Democrats were able to flip was in the deep red state of Oklahoma, in the state's 5th Congressional District.

Trump won the district by roughly 13 points in 2016 and won the state of Oklahoma overall by just over 36 points in the 2016 election — but Democrat Kendra Horn was projected to defeat incumbent GOP Rep. Steve Russell in an upset, based on vote analysis. "
Democrats took control of the U.S. House by winning in suburban districts, while Republicans appeared likely to expand their majority in the U.S. Senate by defeating Democrats in rural states President Trump won. Here are some takeaways from Tuesday’s midterms.
"Democrats won big in Nevada and New Mexico on Election Day, while Republicans did well in Ohio and Missouri. There were mixed messages from places like Arizona, Texas and Florida.

What's the reason? Blame – or credit – women. And Latinos. And Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders. And white men. Also, retirement-age people and millennials. For despite the policy debates and name-calling and the campaign strategies to embrace, denounce or just ignore President Donald Trump, the midterm election results say more about where different categories of people live. And trends in voting among those groups say a lot, too, about where the futures of the two main political parties are going.
A diverse electorate – including Latinos and Asian-Americans – led to the Democratic rout in Nevada, a state which will now have two female U.S. senators, Democratic control of the governor's mansion and both chambers of Congress, a first-ever female-majority state Supreme Court, and – depending on the final results – the nation's first majority-female legislative chamber.

In New Mexico, where the Hispanic population is just a few percentage points behind the white population, voters elected Michelle Lujan Grisham as the state's first Democratic Latina governor and voted in an all-Democratic delegation to Congress.

A massive gender gap ensured an easy re-election victory for Democratic Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia, who won less than half of the male vote but two-thirds of the female-cast ballots."
"Every two years, voters in the U.S. elect a new House of Representatives and one-third of the 100-seat Senate. This Election Day, today, is widely seen as a referendum on someone not on any ballot: President Donald Trump. The midterm election -- so named because it comes at the middle of the president’s term -- will determine whether Trump’s Republican Party retains control in the House and Senate or whether Democrats will gain control of one or both and begin to spell all kinds of problems for Trump.


Every two years, voters in the U.S. elect a new House of Representatives and one-third of the 100-seat Senate. This Election Day, today, is widely seen as a referendum on someone not on any ballot: President Donald Trump. The midterm election -- so named because it comes at the middle of the president’s term -- will determine whether Trump’s Republican Party retains control in the House and Senate or whether Democrats will gain control of one or both and begin to spell all kinds of problems for Trump.
1. When will we know the results?

It depends on how quickly votes are counted and how close the races are. Many contested House seats are in eastern states like Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Virginia; by 8 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, voting in those states and many others will be done. It’s possible that control of the next House could be clear by 11 p.m. EST, when polls close in populous California. If not, a long wait is possible: There are more than half a dozen competitive House races in California, where there’s a prolonged ballot-counting process and many voters cast ballots by mail. Some key Senate races are in western states, so results may not be known until Wednesday; close races could require recounts that could add many days to the waiting time.
When the Polls Close
2. How big an advantage are Republicans defending?

At the moment, they hold a 235-to-193 majority in the House (where seven seats are vacant) and a 51-to-49 edge in the Senate. Up for grabs today are all 435 House seats and 35 of the 100 Senate seats, though many of those are considered sure things for one party or the other. The current Congress runs until Jan. 3.
3. How strong a chance do Democrats have?

They’re better-positioned to win control of the House than the Senate, according to an analysis by Bloomberg Government. Democrats have had strong showings in elections to fill vacancies in the House since Trump became president, they’ve raised record amounts of campaign contributions and they appear to be performing well in the polls. Many observers expect they will win enough seats to regain control of the House, often referred to as ""flipping"" it.
4. Could the Senate flip?

That’s a steeper challenge for Democrats. To win control, they’d need to retain almost all of their current seats that are being contested. There are 26 of those (including two held by independent senators who typically vote with them), and 10 are in states Trump won in 2016. They’d also have to seize two or more Republican-held seats. There are only nine of those on the ballot this year, six in states Trump won by large margins. But it’s common for the party of the sitting president to lose seats in midterm elections. Since the end of World War II, that party has had a net loss of 26 House seats and 4 Senate seats on average. The best hope for Democrats is that this is a ""wave election,"" a term used to describe when the close races tend to break one way and that political party makes major gains in Congress.
The Midterm Hit

Courtesy of Bloomberg
The Midterm Hit, part II

Courtesy of Bloomberg

5. Why might this be a wave election?

Indicators such as Trump’s low approval rating, Democratic candidates’ ""unprecedented"" fundraising numbers and polls showing strong support for Democratic House candidates suggest that Democrats could win much more than the 218 needed for majority control. Plus an unusually high number of House Republicans (37, compared with 18 Democrats) are not seeking re-election, making many of those districts more competitive. In the Senate, three Republicans aren’t running for re-election.

Related: Medicaid, Marijuana, Gas Tax, Felon Voting Rights -- These Midterm State Ballot Measures Could Boost a Blue Wave
6. What would a Democratic-controlled House mean for Trump?

His ability to get major legislation passed would likely be thwarted, in no small part because the House is where all bills for raising revenue must originate. Plus, his administration would likely face new or re-energized investigations, perhaps including subpoenas, by congressional committees under the control of Democrats. Those investigations include whether the Trump campaign colluded with a Russian effort to undermine the 2016 election. Democrats could also seek to obtain and review Trump’s tax returns -- though if so, that doesn’t mean they’d be released to the public.
7. And if Democrats win the Senate as well as the House?

A majority in the Senate is uniquely important because that’s the only chamber that can approve or reject any new Supreme Court appointment by Trump, or any appointment to his cabinet. Control of both the House and Senate would mean that Democrats determine all legislation for the next two years, though Trump could veto any measure before it became law.
8. Why should the world care about the U.S. midterms?

Trump has been able to do things like renegotiate the terms of the North American Free Trade Agreement, put 10 percent tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese exports, cut financial aid for the United Nations and announce that the U.S. would withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal. A Democratic House and/or Senate would have a say in implementing the proposed replacement for Nafta and could challenge Trump’s ability to unilaterally apply tariffs in the name of national security. It also could vote to restore foreign aid and not to re-impose sanctions on Iran. Perhaps the most dramatic thing a Congress under Democratic control could try to do is impeach Trump and remove him from office.
9. On what grounds could Trump be impeached?

A president can face impeachment for “treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors,” and that last part gives Congress great leeway. Democratic leaders have mostly steered way from impeachment talk, reasoning that many voters aren’t eager to see a repeat of the political warfare that raged 20 years ago when Republicans sought to remove President Bill Clinton. But a small group of Democratic House members have already proposed impeaching Trump on charges of allegedly obstructing justice, undermining the federal judiciary and violating the ""emoluments clause"" of the Constitution by refusing to divest his business stakes before becoming president. If a majority of the House were to approve one or more formal written charges known as articles of impeachment, the Senate would hold a trial. If two-thirds of the senators voted to convict -- something that would require cooperation from Republicans -- the president would be removed from office.
The Reference Shelf

    How Republican tax cuts have affected the economy and voter attitudes.
    Wall Street is betting on friendly Democrats.
    Bank investors have little to fear from the election result, columnist Stephen Gandel writes in Bloomberg Opinion.
    Bloomberg Opinion’s Jonathan Bernstein on why the midterm elections really matter.
    A QuickTake explaining the process for presidential impeachment. 

Have a confidential tip for our reporters?
GET IN TOUCH
Before it's here, it's on the Bloomberg Terminal.
LEARN MORE
by Taboola
Sponsored Links
From The Web
Wells Fargo Propel® CardWells Fargo
The Top Attorneys in Buffalo - See The ListAttorneys | Search Ads
50 Of The Most Worthless Cars EverMoneyPop
6 Credit Cards You Should Not Ignore If You Have Exce…NerdWallet
The Best Point Guards Of All TimeHooch
Play this for 1 minute and see why everyone is addictedVikings: Free Online Game
"
"Republicans are well positioned in the battle for the Senate though as only nine of their seats are up for election, while Democrats are defending 24 of theirs and two independents who vote with them are also up.
The president's approval rating is a good indicator for how his party will do and President Trump's has been low since he entered office - it is currently hovering around 42%.

For comparison, President Obama's was at 45% before the 2010 mid-terms in which the Democrats saw some of the biggest electoral losses in US history.

Generic ballot polling, which tracks which party voters say they will back, doesn't offer much reassurance to Republicans either. It currently shows the Democrats up by about 8 percentage points.

    Can we tell now if Democrats will win?

A record number of Republicans have retired

The average age of Congress is 60, so members retiring shouldn't come as a big surprise. But the number of Republicans who are bowing out rather than contesting the mid-terms has raised eyebrows.

More than 30 Republicans have announced their retirement - many more have resigned, a few due to sexual harassment accusations, while some are leaving to pursue other elected offices. "
"Candidates in two Alberni-Clayoquot Regional District electoral zones will soon be on the campaign trail again, just months after the B.C. municipal election.

The reason? Election officials found that 13 voters from the Beaufort electoral area cast their ballots in Cherry Creek, prompting a B.C. Supreme Court judge to mark the election invalid.

The results were nail-bitingly close to begin with in the tiny district. Beaufort’s successful candidate, Tanya Shannon, won by just 11 votes, while Cherry Creek’s Dianna Bodnar won by just seven.

READ MORE: Watch the name being pulled out of a box to determine who will be the mayor of Peachland after judicial recount verifies a tie

One of the erroneous votes was in fact cast by one of the candidates in the election. In her written judgement, Justice Sharon Matthews called this “puzzling.”

The two electoral areas overlap, which might explain why people were confused about where to vote. However, there’s no evidence election officials followed "
"Democratic presidential contender Kamala Harris was just about to take the stage tonight at Sacramento’s Sheraton Grand Hotel ballroom when she spotted and ran over to a group of women sporting yellow t-shirts sitting on right side of the auditorium. They were California child-care workers hoping to win collective bargaining rights in Sacramento. And Harris, a U.S. senator from California, put her stump speech on hold to exchange hugs and snap selfies.

It was a brief, unscripted moment in what was to be a fairly conventional campaign stop, but it was a notable one.

In her 20 minute speech to the conference put on by the California Labor Federation and the State Building and Construction Trades Council, Harris spoke broadly about the value of organized labor— “unions built the middle class of this country”—and stuck mostly to national politics. She promised to repeal the changes to the federal tax code signed into law by President Trump last year, and spoke about the aspirational nature of the American character.

Her one tangent into California state policy belonged to the women in yellow.

“I was going over there to talk to my sisters in the child-care workforce, and I thank you for all that you are doing to organize a critical workforce—to organize and unionize,” she said, speaking to the cheering members of the Service Employees International Union and the United Domestic Workers of America.

“The greatest expression of a society’s love of its children,” she continued, “is to put resources and support into anybody who is caring for those children.” 

For more than a decade, child-care workers in California who receive state subsidies to serve low-income families have been lobbying in the state Capitol to get the right to bargain with the state over reimbursement rates, licensing requirements and other policies that affect their industry. Supporters say that direct negotiations with state agencies are the best way to improve working conditions and child-care quality, though some skeptics worry that higher reimbursement rates could eat away at state funding that could be used to serve more children. Others see the campaign as yet another way for organized labor to consolidate political power."
"WASHINGTON — Democrats were gaining significant ground in the battle for House control Tuesday night, while Republicans held onto their majority in the Senate as voters weighed in on the first nationwide election in Donald Trump’s turbulent presidency.

With control of Congress, statehouses and the president’s agenda at stake, some of the nation’s top elections were too close to call.
The Democrats’ narrow path to the Senate was slammed shut after setbacks in Indiana, Tennessee, North Dakota and Texas
Democrats won half the seats they needed to claim House control with dozens additional competitive contests remaining. Victories in contested races across Florida, New York, Virginia, Pennsylvania and Minnesota gave them cause for optimism.

The Democrats’ narrow path to the Senate was slammed shut after setbacks in Indiana, Tennessee, North Dakota and Texas.
"
"Most analysts agree that this is likely to be a bad year for the congressional GOP. There is disagreement as to just how bad it will be.  This late in the season, we can look for crystallizing moments that summarize the challenges facing the incumbent party. One such crystallizing moment can probably be found in Tuesday’s special election for Ohio’s 12th Congressional District.  

On its face, the 12th is a poor choice for a bellwether district; the heavily Republican 12th and its predecessors have sent Republicans to Congress in every election dating back to 1980 (and 1936 before that). But the weakness of the modern Republican Party among college-educated whites will hit hard here, and we could see an upset that presages a wipeout in November."
"It means that New York is finally going to get the Democratic leadership in the Senate that they continue to vote for,"" said state Senate Democratic Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins, who's set to become the majority leader in January. ""So we're going to continue to be … a reflection of what New York wants.”

Democrats appeared to flip at least five seats, with candidates Monica Martinez, James Gaughran, Anna Kaplan, James Skoufis and Jen Metzger all winning their contests. Since no Democratic incumbents lost, that would expand the conference to 36 members, excluding state Sen. Simcha Felder, a Brooklyn Democrat who caucuses with the GOP.

Additionally, Republican state Sens. Kemp Hannon, Marty Golden and Terrence Murphy were trailing by a couple percentage points, which could mean three more Democratic pickups - and a conference swelling to 39 members in the 63-seat chamber. Another Democrat, Karen Smythe, was trailing GOP state Sen. Sue Serino and refused to concede. 

Gov. Andrew Cuomo had flexed his muscles on behalf of his fellow Democrats this cycle, recruiting state Senate candidates and launching a $2 million ad buy. The activist groups that propelled IDC challengers like Alessandra Biaggi and Jessica Ramos to primary victories also joined forces with the governor, with at least one progressive group backing a slate of candidates challenging Republican incumbents."
"In the swirl of news this week, it would be easy to miss recent announcements from two of America's largest and most influential technology companies that have implications for our democracy as a whole. First, on Tuesday morning, Microsoft revealed that it had detected continued attempts at spear-phishing by APT 28/Fancy Bear, the hacking group tied to Russia’s Main Intelligence Directorate (known as the GRU). Later that day, my friends and former colleagues at Facebook unveiled details on more than 600 accounts that were being used by Russian and Iranian groups to distort the information environment worldwide.

The revelations are evidence that Russia has not been deterred and that Iran is following in its footsteps. This underlines a sobering reality: America’s adversaries believe that it is still both safe and effective to attack U.S. democracy using American technologies and the freedoms we cherish.

And why wouldn’t they believe that? In some ways, the United States has broadcast to the world that it doesn’t take these issues seriously and that any perpetrators of information warfare against the West will get, at most, a slap on the wrist. While this failure has left the U.S. unprepared to protect the 2018 elections, there is still a chance to defend American democracy in 2020."
"In the run-up to the 2016 election, ProPublica organized a project called Electionland to cover voting, nationally and in real time. Along with a coalition of news organizations and tech companies, we brought together more than 1,100 journalists around the country to cover impediments like restrictive voting laws, allegations of voter fraud, voter harassment, equipment failures and long lines — all of which can effectively disenfranchise eligible voters and erode the integrity of the vote.

Today we’re announcing that we’re relaunching Electionland to cover the 2018 midterm elections. Policies and practices that jeopardize Americans’ fundamental right to vote demand scrutiny. And the concerns raised by the 2016 election — about cybersecurity and foreign attempts to sow doubt about the integrity of the election — make this even more urgent.

We’re recruiting newsrooms interested in collaborating with us to cover these issues. Thanks to our coverage in 2016, New York restored access to its elections hotline during early voting, a Texas poll worker misinterpreting the state’s voter ID law was set straight, and two women denied the ability to vote were able to cast their ballots.

If you’re interested in joining Electionland 2018, find out more and how to sign up.

The issues that got us interested in covering voting in 2016 are still with us, and some have gotten more acute:

At least six bills have been proposed this year that would make it harder to vote. Almost immediately after the presidential election, accusations of hacking, foreign interference and voter fraud began to make headlines. To investigate unsupported claims of mass illegal voting, President Donald Trump set up a Commission on Election Integrity and appointed allies to it who seemed to have had a predetermined outcome in mind. It was shut down after a series of controversies. Supreme Court cases that will have a major effect on future elections are expected to conclude in a few months. The electorate is polarized as perhaps never before."
"From who will be our next governor, to whether we should expand rent control — California voters will be making big decisions about the future of the state in this year’s midterm election. Here’s everything you need to know to be ready to cast your vote on November 6.
How to register

The California voter registration deadline was October 22, 2018. You can check your status and see where you’re registered on the Secretary of State’s website, which also has information about voter eligibility, when you need to re-register (for example, if you’ve changed your name), what to do if you’re away at college and more.

If you missed the deadline, you can go to your county elections office or a Vote Center and conditionally register and vote using a provisional ballot.

In some counties, including Sacramento, all registered voters receive mail-in ballots under the new California Voter’s Choice Act model. But any registered voter can go to a county elections office in person to get a vote-by-mail ballot. In addition, some counties offer early voting. You can check if yours does here."
"The 2018 elections could see the highest turnout for a midterm since the mid-1960s, another time of cultural and social upheaval.

""It's probably going to be a turnout rate that most people have never experienced in their lives for a midterm election,"" Michael McDonald, a professor at the University of Florida who studies turnout and maintains a turnout database, told NPR.

McDonald is predicting that 45 to 50 percent of eligible voters will cast a ballot. That would be a level not seen since 1970 when 47 percent of voters turned out or 1966 when a record 49 percent turned out in a midterm."
"Driven by massive voter turnout, the 2018 midterm election was both a blue wave and a red wave. It just depended on which map you were looking at.

Democrats blazed a suburban trail to wrest control of the House from Republicans, easily winning the popular vote in a national rebuke of President Donald Trump that is likely to yield a gain of more than 30 seats.And yet the party lost ground in the Senate, giving Trump and GOP leader Mitch McConnell more breathing room for the next two years — and possibly even longer. Democrats also fell short in some of the most sought-after gubernatorial races, including the biggest prize of the night in Florida.

Turnout was off the charts for a midterm election: In the previous midterm, in 2014, fewer than 79 million voters cast ballots for the House of Representatives. As of early Wednesday morning, 97 million votes had been counted solely for Democratic and Republican candidates, according to The New York Times, with millions more left to be tallied."
"This is Brazil’s first election since President Dilma Rousseff’s 2016 impeachment. At the heart of the race has been the question of whether Lula, her predecessor, could run. The preferred choice of the Workers’ Party (PT), Lula generally led polls, despite beginning a 12-year prison sentence for corruption in April. The country’s Clean Record Law bans candidates from running if an appeals court upholds a conviction against them. Lula’s was upheld in January, and Brazil's top electoral court overturned the former president's registration as a candidate on September 1, a decision Lula's legal team initially said it would appeal. On September 11, Lula bowed out of the race, with his running mate, former São Paulo Mayor Fernando Haddad, replacing him and leaving the election's outcome far less sure.

AS/COA Online takes a look at the candidates.

"
"The importance of Mexico's July 1, 2018 presidential election cannot be overstated. The election is a critical turning point for Mexico and may mark the start of a new chapter of uncertainty and political risk in the U.S.'s southern neighbor. Some critics, especially among Mexico's wealthy entrepreneurs and professionals see front-runner (and likely winner) Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador as a potentially mortal threat to the tenuous gains Mexico has achieved over the last twenty years. Others see him as the only politician in Mexico capable of confronting corruption head on and kickstarting meaningful economic growth in the parts of the country that have been left behind during the era of globalization. Over the last few weeks I've seen a number of great articles about Mexico's 2018 presidential election.

On June 7 I tweeted this podcast by Americas Quarterly magazine editor Brian Winter and Mexican political analyst Denise Dresser. This discussion contains the best analysis I've seen so far about Mexico's 2018 presidential election and the promise and perils of the imminent AMLO era."
"Both Republicans and Democrats woke up Wednesday morning claiming victory in Tuesday's midterms. Democrats patted themselves on the back for taking back the House of Representatives and for flipping seven governorships from red to blue. And in a press conference, President Donald Trump praised his party, and himself, for gaining ground in the Senate.

Americans remain sharply divided at the ballot box, from which political party they support to initiatives on issues like climate change. But they consistently voted against one thing on Tuesday: gerrymandering. In Michigan, Missouri, and Colorado, voters overwhelmingly passed ballot initiatives to put an end to this practice; as of Wednesday evening, another in Utah held onto a slight lead. They join another initiative passed in Ohio earlier this year.

These initiatives either set up independent redistricting"
"The outcome of the 2018 midterm congressional election is important to the future of health care in the United States. Since 1994, the division between those who identify as Republicans and those who identify as Democrats has grown on a range of domestic policy issues, including many major health care topics.1,2 These far-reaching differences in policy preferences are increasingly reflected in the congressional voting patterns of members from both parties, particularly in the House of Representatives.

Votes in Congress tend to reflect the views of party loyalists, particularly those who are activists, rather than the views held by the general populace.3 In addition, the health agenda of the next Congress will be affected not only by which party is in the majority but also by how salient specific health issues were in deciding the outcome of the midterm elections. Top-ranked issues are often given a higher priority for action by leaders of the next Congress.

In discussing voters’ views on the upcoming midterm elections, it is important to recognize that on the basis of past voting trends, half or more of the general public will not vote.4 Thus, this review of polls focuses on the views of those who identify themselves in surveys as likely or registered voters. At this time, polls of registered voters show unusually high interest in the election.5"
"On Tuesday, Nov. 6, about 90 million American voters (around 40% of the voting-eligible population, give or take) will elect all 435 members of the U.S. House of Representatives and 35 members of the U.S. Senate.[1] The midterm election’s outcome will play a major role in policy-making and the politics leading up to the presidential election of 2020. Going into the 2018 elections, Republicans hold majorities in both chambers of Congress. This collection of four different models printed in the Crystal Ball offers forecasts of how the 2018 midterm congressional elections are likely to change the partisan composition of the House and the Senate.

As in previous forecasting symposiums, the forecasts in this collection are based on statistical analyses of how indicators of the pre-campaign context of elections have been associated historically with their outcomes. While each model draws on its own set of indicators, some context may be helpful. What do the history of midterm elections and the number of seats each party is defending in 2018 (the arithmetic of the election), and the political climate leading up to the fall campaign broadly indicate about 2018?
Midterm history

As is well known, the president’s party routinely loses House seats in midterms. The presidential party has lost seats in all but three (1934, 1998, and 2002) of the 29 midterms held since 1900. In the 17 midterms held since 1950, presidential party losses averaged 24 House seats. Since the mid-1980s, the mean loss has been 20 seats and a median of only 10 seats."
"Jews…commit a disproportionate number of mass shootings,” Wisconsin Republican congressional candidate Paul Nehlen lied on Facebook recently. Earlier, he had tweeted: “Poop, incest, and pedophilia. Why are those common themes repeated so often with Jews?” Another GOP House hopeful, Pennsylvania’s Sean Donahue, recently told me, “The United States was intended to be white…. I don’t see why we had to have the Fair Housing Act.”

Welcome to Trump’s America, where a rash of white nationalists are running for office. Depending on your definition, anywhere from nine and 17 white supremacists and far-right militia leaders are currently running for House and Senate seats, governorships, and state legislatures.

Most have little chance of winning, but as with the neo-Nazi Arthur Jones, who recently ran unopposed in the Republican primary for the Third Congressional District in the Chicago area and garnered 20,458 votes, their mere candidacies, along with their growing acceptance by other Republicans as legitimate stakeholders in the party, are a dangerous development. “They are, by their very presence, shifting the pole of what most Americans find to be acceptable political discourse,” said Eric K. Ward of the Western States Center, a progressive organization that works in seven states where white-nationalist groups have been active."
"

Democrats owe their newly elected House majority to an upsurge of votes from women, younger Americans and white college graduates, deepening divides that emerged in the election two years ago and shaping the debate within the party over how to challenge President Trump in 2020.

With more than a dozen races left to be called, including several in California, Democrats appear to have picked up a net of about 35 congressional seats, significantly more than the 23 they needed for a majority.
"
"oters will be faced with 12 constitutional amendment proposals on the Nov. 6 ballot. Each needs at least 60 percent of votes to be enshrined in the Florida Constitution.

To read the full ballot language, click here.

Amendment 8 related to charter schools and term limits for school board members will not appear on the ballot because it was stricken by the Florida Supreme Court.

Voter's guide: Florida's 12 amendments on the 2018 election ballot: What they mean

Opinion: Do your homework on the 12 amendments on Election Day ballot

Download our app: How to sign up for FLORIDA TODAY's news alerts, election results

Below is a summary of that the remaining proposals aim to accomplish Amendment 2

This proposal permanently places a 10-percent cap on the annual increase of non-homestead property tax assessments. This amendment wouldn't change current law, but it puts protections in place so exorbitant increases don't impact renters, business owners and consumers.

What owners of non-homestead properties face, should the amendment fail, is paying taxes on the full value of properties, beginning in January 2019. This could translate into higher costs for renters, financial burdens for those on fixed incomes, increased costs for consumers who shop at businesses and more costs for those who own undeveloped land. Projections show a potential tax increase of about $700 million each year."
"General Election

President-Elect: Claire M. Fraser, University of Maryland School of Medicine

Board of Directors: Maria M. Klawe, Harvey Mudd College; Ann Bostrom, University of Washington

Committee on Nominations: Marcia C. Linn, University of California, Berkeley; Paula T. Hammond, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Michelle Vaughn Buchanan, Oak Ridge National Laboratory; Elaine Fuchs, Rockefeller University
Section Elections
Agriculture, Food, and Renewable Resources

Chair Elect: Edward S. Buckler, USDA-ARS

Member-at-Large of the Section Committee: Neelima R. Sinha, University of California, Davis

Electorate Nominating Committee: Isgouhi Kaloshian, University of California, Riverside; Chris van Kessel, University of California, Davis"
"Egypt’s presidential election on March 26-28 will effectively be a theatrical performance, staged by the regime to contrive a popular mandate for strongman President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi’s second term. Sisi, who as defense minister led the 2013 coup against the Islamist president Mohamed Morsi, has forced out every credible electoral contender—including two prominent challengers from the military establishment, Ahmed Shafiq and Sami Anan—using threats and even imprisonment. Moussa Mustafa Moussa, who entered the race at the last moment to play Sisi’s token opponent, is an obscure politician and an avowed supporter of the president who is thought to have long-standing ties to the Egyptian security services.

What is more, the vote is being held against the backdrop of a vast crackdown under Sisi. Tens of thousands of people are in prison on politicized or fabricated charges. Civil society organizations are hounded by the police, and the regime has been buying up privately held media organizations and punishing those outlets that dare to diverge from the state’s Orwellian narrative. With the security services unleashed, the incidence of torture has increased dramatically and, in a frightening tactic new to Egypt, hundreds have “disappeared” from the streets or their homes. A state of emergency has further eroded Egyptians’ meager rights. Any balloting held under such brutally repressive circumstances reveals very little about Sisi’s standing with the Egyptian public."
"GOVERNOR’S RACE

At a glance: In a reliably blue state, in the throes of an election year where pundits are predicting a “blue wave,” the race between incumbent Democrat Gov. Kate Brown and State Rep. Knute Buehler, R-Bend is considered competitive. If Buehler wins, he’ll be the first Republican to hold the seat since 1987.

Read our profile of Knute Buehler, who says he’s a different kind of Republican. 

    “I’m really running to be your next governor for a very, very simple reason,” he tells the group. “To fix the big problems in Oregon that have been avoided, ignored and, quite frankly, made a lot worse by Gov. Brown over the last four years.”

Our profile on Gov. Brown asks: Can she sell Oregonians on her vision for the state?

    My leadership style is not in pounding a table and striding into a room and saying, ‘This is what we’re going to do,’” Brown said. “Because I think that public policy developed through consensus and collaboration — through people really wrestling through the gives and takes — is much more resilient.” "
Support for Donald J. Trump in the 2016 election was widely attributed to citizens who were “left behind” economically. These claims were based on the strong cross-sectional relationship between Trump support and lacking a college education. Using a representative panel from 2012 to 2016, I find that change in financial wellbeing had little impact on candidate preference. Instead, changing preferences were related to changes in the party’s positions on issues related to American global dominance and the rise of a majority–minority America: issues that threaten white Americans’ sense of dominant group status. Results highlight the importance of looking beyond theories emphasizing changes in issue salience to better understand the meaning of election outcomes when public preferences and candidates’ positions are changing.
"Present Law

Generally, the Constitution of Virginia provides that all property shall be taxed. The Constitution of Virginia also sets out specific types of property that may be exempted from taxation. For example, the Constitution of Virginia allows the General Assembly to permit localities to provide a partial exemption from real estate taxes as an incentive for property owners to make substantial improvements to existing structures by renovating, rehabilitating, or replacing those structures.

Proposed Amendment

The proposed amendment would authorize the General Assembly to allow localities to provide a partial tax exemption for real property that is subject to recurrent flooding, if improvements have been made on the property to address flooding. The General Assembly and participating localities would be allowed to place restrictions or conditions on qualification for the tax exemption.

A ""yes"" vote will authorize the General Assembly to allow localities to provide a partial tax exemption for real property that is subject to recurrent flooding, if improvements have been made on the property to address flooding.

A ""no"" vote will not allow such a tax exemption. "
"There are just a few weeks before the November 6 election; just a few weeks to put the breaks on the fascist project led by Trump and  open the door for an offensive for people’s needs. What we do every day counts.

Labor Day parades and other actions in many communities across the country set the stage.The Kavanaugh Supreme Court hearings epitomized the fierce battle underway to preserve basic democratic structures and hard won rights including the right of workers to a union, of women to choice, of immigrants to due process, of African Americans to the very right to vote.

The Republican majority shut down normal procedure at the hearing in order to jam the nominee through on behalf of corporate interests and the Trump administration.  The resistance in response included Judiciary Committee Democrats who called for the hearing to adjourn, Women’s March activists who courageously disrupted from the gallery, and millions of people including union members, civil rights activists and environmentalists across the country flooding the phone lines of their U.S. Senators."
"This article was originally published by Indian Country Today and is reproduced here with permission. 

Countdown. There are now less than 100 days until Election Day. That means little time for campaigns to reach every possible voter or to raise money to get their message out.

The elections are less than 100 days away and there are far more than a hundred stories. Stories about candidates. Stories about races where the Native vote can make a difference. Stories about registration drives — and making sure that Native Americans have access to ballots.

And stories about the last flurry of primary contests. Let’s start with that.The Kansas primary goes national

Sharice Davids, Ho Chunk, is running for Congress in Kansas’ third congressional district. This race has taken on national implications as sort of a fight between establishment Democrats and Bernie Sanders. In the minds and tweets of many Sanders supporters, Davids is not progressive enough. This is a district that Hillary Clinton won in 2016 and Davids’ best case is that her record and ties to the district make her the ideal candidate come November. This seat is now held by Rep. Kevin Yoder, a Republican."
"n June, Ballotpedia analyzed every U.S. election going back to 1918 to find a baseline number for what defines a true wave washing over the party of an incumbent president.

The answer: The president’s party needs to lose at least 48 seats in the U.S. House. That’s the minimum number of seats lost in 11 of the 50 U.S. Congressional elections over the last century. Many elections in recent memory have met this threshold: Democrats lost 63 seats under President Obama in 2010 and 54 seats under President Clinton in 1994—the first midterm election for both presidents.

How did 2018 stack up?

Republicans began the evening with 235 seats. With one House race still too close to call as of December 3, 2018, Republicans were sitting on 200 declared victories and Democrats 234.

The Democratic Party gained control of the U.S. House but remained below historical wave levels.

The U.S. Senate wasn't even a close call.

The median number of seats lost in the Senate by the incumbent president’s party in every election going back 100 years is one. The average is two.

In 2018, Republicans expanded their majority to 53 declared seats, a gain of two chairs to their caucus room. If they were to have added more than two, that would have put them in the top 20 percent best performances over the last century.

What about state governments?

Now that’s something to talk about. Democrats had a good night taking over gubernatorial mansions, netting six new ones. The average loss of governors for the party of an incumbent president has been 2.66 per cycle, so Election 2018 was more than double the average.

Still, that didn't get it into the top 20 percent worst. President Obama in 2010 and President Reagan in 1982 each lost seven of their party’s governors during the first midterm election and then cruised to re-election. President Bill Clinton lost 10 governors in 1994. "
"The state of Georgia’s actions placing the registrations of 53,000 voters on hold, largely of African-Americans, has drawn scrutiny from advocates who want to expand voting rights and those concerned about voter fraud.

The battle is playing out amid a close race for the governor’s office between an African-American woman, former State House leader Stacey Abrams, and a white man, Brian Kemp, the top official overseeing elections in the state.

Georgia’s contest and others across the nation have been cast as a referendum on President Donald Trump. Voters find in Kemp an ardent Trump supporter, and in Abrams, a candidate seeking to ""bring the blue wave"" to Georgia. If Abrams wins, she would become the nation’s first black female governor.

Voting rights advocates accuse Kemp of discriminatory voting practices tied to the state’s so-called ""exact match"" law. Kemp denies the allegations.

What exactly is happening in Georgia? Can the ""pending"" applicants still have a voice in the state’s 2018 election? Here’s what we know.
"
"Lori Lightfoot dominated Tuesday's runoff election for Chicago mayor, over Toni Preckwinkle. The two topped a field of 14 on Feb. 26. In addition, 15 of the 50 aldermanic wards in runoffs are for the most part decided. A selection of top suburban results are also shown below.

Results below are not final.

Follow along with the latest updates and analysis from Tribune reporters in the field as results come in."
"
    Go on line to the Secretary of State's website and register on-line at https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/
    OR stop by the clerk's office to fill out an  application
    OR call the office to have the  application mailed to you
    OR visit the Vermont Secretary of State Office's website to download the application  http://vermont-elections.org/elections1/registertovote.html and return the registration form to the Clerk's Office.
    Plus: You are automatically put on South Burlington's voter list when you visit DMV unless you opt out of the automatic enrollment

Election Day Voter Registration is available for all elections in the City.  However, in order to make your election day experience less stressful it is recommended that you verify your voting status in the City prior to Election Day.

No matter how you register you should receive confirmation in the mail from the Clerk's office once your application is processed. If you don't receive confirmation within 2 weeks of registering, please call the office at 846-4105."
"Despite a strong economy, Americans remain relatively pessimistic in their outlook on the direction of the country. Nearly two-thirds (64%) of the public believe things in the country have gotten pretty seriously off on the wrong track, while about one-third (35%) say things are generally moving in the right direction.

Americans are far more likely to believe the country has gone off course in just the last few years than to say this has been happening for a long time. Four in ten (40%) Americans say the country has gotten off on the wrong track recently, while about one-quarter (24%) say the U.S. has been on the wrong track for a long time.

Among partisans, views about the direction of the country have flipped since 2016. Today, seven in ten (70%) Republicans say the country is headed in the right direction, while nearly three in ten say that the country has gotten off on the wrong track in the last few years (10%) or has been on the wrong track for a long time (19%). In contrast, in the fall of 2016, only seven percent of Republicans said the U.S. was headed in the right direction, while more than nine in ten Republicans said the country had been on the wrong track for a long time (42%) or had gotten off on the wrong track in just the last few years (49%).1

Similarly, views among Democrats have shifted recently. Today, only eight percent of Democrats believe the U.S. is headed in the right direction. About nine in ten Democrats say things have gotten off on the wrong track in the last few years (72%) or the U.S. has been on the wrong track for a long time (19%). In 2016, more than four in ten (42%) Democrats said the U.S. was headed in the right direction. Less than six in ten said the country had gotten off on the wrong track in the last few years (21%) or had been off track for a long time (36%)."
"In 2008, the iPhone was less than a year old. BlackBerrys and e-mail dominated the palms of corporate and political information junkies. Television continued to be the dominant medium for political advertising and debates. Social media was a curiosity; governments and politicians who used it were still something of a novelty. It took the protests of the 2009 #IranElection—Time magazine dubbed Twitter “the medium of the movement”—to make mainstream journalists and politicians realize that smartphones and internet connections were fundamentally shifting how we lived, worked, played, advocated, campaigned, and governed.
This story is part of our September/October 2018 Issue
See the rest of the issue

Since then we’ve been living through probably the most rapid evolution of political campaigning in recent history. In each US election cycle, the technology used has advanced and morphed; the tools that gave Barack Obama the edge in 2008 and 2012 are very different from the ones that nudged Donald Trump to victory in 2016.

So where might things go next? What lessons will candidates for Congress in November’s midterms have taken from Trump’s victory? How will algorithm changes at a Facebook chastened by the Cambridge Analytica scandal alter the mechanics of influencing voters? Will 2020 or 2024 look as different from 2016 as 2016 did from 2008?

First, here’s a brief history of a heady decade."
"RICHMOND, Va – As the old saying in politics goes, the most important election of our lives is the next one.  If you’re the kind of person who subscribes to what some call a cliche, then you no doubt know midterm elections are November 6.

It is a day that genuinely carries great importance for national politics, as the balance of power in Congress during the next two years of President Trump’s term is up for grabs. For politicos and average voters alike, CBS 6 has compiled information you need to know on Election Day and broke down some key races for voters in Central Virginia.Traditionally, the party of the president tends to suffer loses during the midterm Congressional elections. That is why political analysts say, in broad terms, this election is about whether voters approve or disapprove of President Trump.

In 2010, a wave of Republican enthusiasm following President Obama’s first two years in office swept dozens of Tea Party candidates into office.

Democrats hope a similar “blue wave,” which has its roots in Virginia’s 2017 elections, will help them regain a majority in the U.S. House and potentially the U.S. Senate. Election forecasters, however, think the latter is much less likely.

Wary of what that scenario would mean for President Trump and his agenda, Republicans are pouring millions of dollars into competitive races across the country, including several in Virginia.

There are 5,624,332 registered voters in Virginia as of September 30.  A Gallup poll conducted in September found that voter enthusiasm as a whole was “significantly higher” than the prior six midterm elections, with 55 percent of voters telling pollsters they were “more enthusiastic” about voting than usual.

In Virginia, Senator Tim Kaine (D) faces Republican challenger Corey Stewart and Libertarian candidate Matt Waters in the sole statewide race for one of two Virginia Senate seats.  Political analysts predict Sen. Kaine’s seat is likely safe, despite the “vicious” campaign Stewart has run.  Sen. Kaine has a $19 million fundraising edge over Stewart and is the only candidate in the race to run television ads statewide, according to the Virginia Public Access Project (VPAP)."
"Voting is an American principle and a basic democratic right that should be protected, promoted, and practiced, which is why many people are surprised to learn that the U.S. Constitution provides no explicit right to vote. This leaves voting rights vulnerable to the whims of politicians, and some citizens with fewer rights than others.

More than a decade ago, FairVote became the leading institutional voice calling for the establishment of an explicit individual right to vote in the U.S. Constitution. We believe that a grassroots movement to establish such an amendment would go a long way in ending the ""voting wars"" that plague us today. FairVote continues to serve as a trusted resource in support of activists, organizations, and elected officials working toward a right to vote amendment. Through our Promote Our Vote project, we work to build widespread support for a right to vote amendment, while advocating for pro-suffrage innovations at the local level. 

 "
When the polls open on Election Day, every citizen over the age of 18 will be able to cast a vote. It is a right we take for granted, one that defines our nation as a democracy. But universal suffrage — letting everyone vote — did not appear overnight with the ratification of our Constitution. Two hundred years ago, you had to be white, male, and wealthy in order to vote. The three people profiled below dedicated their lives to changing that fact. Without them, suffrage might still be the privilege of a chosen few.
 In order to become a naturalized citizen of the United States, until recently you had to answer this question: “What is the most important right granted to U.S. citizens?” The correct answer, according to the United States government, was, “The right to vote.” But that “right” has always been on shaky ground. Just as the Constitution once countenanced slavery, it also allowed voting to be restricted to property-holding white men. The Thirteenth Amendment expunged the stain of slavery from our basic law, but the Constitution has never fulfilled the democratic promise we associate with it. Put simply—and this is surprising to many people—there is no constitutional guarantee of the right to vote. Qualifications to vote in House and Senate elections are decided by each state, and the Supreme Court affirmed in Bush v. Gore that “[t]he individual citizen has no federal constitutional right to vote for electors for the President of the United States.”
"We have the freedom to choose our leaders and engage on the issues that we care about. That means we can build power in our communities and create real change. Our right to vote gives us that power.

But whether that right is protected varies from state to state. (Yes, even today.) Some states have laws that encourage voters to participate and make our voices heard, while others have laws that confuse and block voters, which lowers turnout — and our impact.

As the largest and most diverse generation in American history, we have the strength to defend our voices and our votes. "
A terrible and bloody Civil War freed enslaved Americans. The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution (1868) subsequently granted African Americans the rights of citizenship. Sadly, this did not always translate into the right to vote. Even after Congress passed the Fifteenth Amendment providing the right to vote, it would be many years before African Americans would be allowed to fully participate in the process.
"One of the most critical ways that individuals can influence governmental decision-making is through voting. Voting is a formal expression of preference for a candidate for office or for a proposed resolution of an issue. Voting generally takes place in the context of a large-scale national or regional election, however, local and small-scale community elections can be just as critical to individual participation in government.

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted unanimously by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948, recognizes the integral role that transparent and open elections play in ensuring the fundamental right to participatory government. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Article 21 states:
Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his/her country, directly or through freely chosen representatives.
Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his country.
The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret ballot or by equivalent free voting procedures.

The role that periodic, free elections play in ensuring respect for political rights also is enshrined in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the Charter of the Organization of American States, the African (Banjul) Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights and many other international human rights documents."
Laws governing U.S. elections date back to Article 1 of the Constitution, which gave states the responsibility of overseeing federal elections. Numerous Constitutional amendments and federal laws have been passed in the years since to ensure all Americans have the right to vote and the ability to exercise that right.
"The 19th amendment guarantees all American women the right to vote. Achieving this milestone required a lengthy and difficult struggle; victory took decades of agitation and protest. Beginning in the mid-19th century, several generations of woman suffrage supporters lectured, wrote, marched, lobbied, and practiced civil disobedience to achieve what many Americans considered a radical change of the Constitution. Few early supporters lived to see final victory in 1920.

Beginning in the 1800s, women organized, petitioned, and picketed to win the right to vote, but it took them decades to accomplish their purpose. Between 1878, when the amendment was first introduced in Congress, and August 18, 1920, when it was ratified, champions of voting rights for women worked tirelessly, but strategies for achieving their goal varied. Some pursued a strategy of passing suffrage acts in each state—nine western states adopted woman suffrage legislation by 1912. Others challenged male-only voting laws in the courts. Militant suffragists used tactics such as parades, silent vigils, and hunger strikes. Often supporters met fierce resistance. Opponents heckled, jailed, and sometimes physically abused them.

By 1916, almost all of the major suffrage organizations were united behind the goal of a constitutional amendment. When New York adopted woman suffrage in 1917 and President Wilson changed his position to support an amendment in 1918, the political balance began to shift."
"Following the 2016 election, the fight for voting rights remains as critical as ever. Politicians across the country continue to engage in voter suppression, efforts that include additional obstacles to registration, cutbacks on early voting, and strict voter identification requirements. Through litigation and advocacy, the ACLU is fighting back against attempts to curtail an essential right in our democracy, the right to vote. ​

In addition to this litigation, we are working with our affiliates to advocate for policies that make it easier for Americans to vote, such as the expansion of same-day and online voter registration. "
"In all but two states, voting-age citizens convicted of a felony are barred from voting for some period of time. Laws vary in each state. While many states restore voting rights to individuals automatically after they exit jail or prison, others continue the bar on voting even while on probation or parole. Some even permanently disenfranchise people with a past conviction or require they petition the government to have their right restored.

This is a short, up-to-date state guide to voting for people with past felonies. For more, visit the resources on the right."
"Up until the Civil War, in most places, the right to vote in the United State was restricted to white males 21 years and older. Each state, not the federal government, established its own voter qualifications, but by far, adult white males accounted for almost all of the ballots cast. In the Dred Scott decision in 1857, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that slaves were property of their owners, were not citizens and had no legal rights at all. A decade later, African Americans were not only free, but they were free citizens, and in Iowa, the path had been set to grant them the right to vote.

African-American Suffrage
The first two constitutions adopted by the people of Iowa limited the suffrage (right to vote) to white males 21 years and older. While slavery might have been illegal in Iowa, many state laws discriminated against African-American residents. The ""black codes"" that required African Americans to post financial bonds to live here and denied them the right to serve on juries were designed to discourage them from migrating to Iowa. A strong majority in the state opposed intermarriage between whites and African Americans and held that African Americans were not as intelligent as whites."
The foot soldiers of the civil rights movement risked their lives to secure the right to vote for African Americans. But the Voting Rights Act of 1965, known as the “crown jewel” of the civil rights movement, was gutted by a devastating Supreme Court ruling in 2013 that sent a chilling message to African Americans, the Latino community, disabled persons, students, and many others who continue to face politically-motivated hurdles when voting. The Right has been whipping up hysteria about mass illegal voting that simply doesn't exist, and continues to use it to fuel an onslaught of voter suppression laws – all to keep certain people from exercising their right to vote.
"The founding fathers of the United States establish the Electoral College. The American people do not directly elect the President. Instead, the Electoral College elects the President.
The Electoral College votes are divided among the states. Each state gets two votes for its two Senators and a vote for each of its Representatives in Congress. The number of congressional representatives varies from state to state depending on the state's population.

If a candidate wins the popular vote (a vote cast by a citizen) in a state, they win that state's Electoral College vote. It is possible, mathematically, to win the popular vote and lose the presidential election if the candidate does not win enough Electoral votes.

"
"In the fading afternoon light, Gammar Bam glanced down nervously at a fast-flowing river in a corner of northeastern India. His team had already driven eight hours on one-lane mountainous roads and shaky bridges. Now they were trekking on a slippery path hugging a cliff.

Bam looked at the narrow track and tried to gauge if he could clamber over an uprooted tree while carrying a voting machine. Somehow, he would have to make it work.

The world’s largest electoral exercise began this month in India and will take place in seven phases over a 38-day period. Results will be announced on May 23. Nearly 900 million people are eligible to vote, and India is committed to reaching them all, no matter where they live."
"Voters in Kerala's Wayanad constituency are going to have plenty of Gandhis to choose from when they go to polls on April 23.

Out of the 20 contesting candidates, three are namesakes of Rahul Gandhi, the scion of the Nehru-Gandhi political dynasty.

Rahul Gandhi K E, Raghul Gandhi K, and K M Sivaprasad Gandhi are the other three men who will be competing against the leader of India’s main opposition party, Congress.

The more famous Rahul Gandhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s main opponent, is contesting elections from two seats, one from his traditional seat in Amethi in Uttar Pradesh Kerala's Wayanad -- which he chose during this election cycle."
"The right to vote is an inalienable part of a citizen’s right in a democracy, subject to some riders laid down by the state. To be part of this democratic process, it is required to get registered as a voter, and then to finally cast your vote for the candidate of your choice. 

Finding the Polling booth 
It is important to reach the correct polling booth of your constituency in order to cast your vote. A voter can search for the polling booth on electoralsearch.in or use the Voter Helpline App, developed by the Election Commission, to find their polling booth. They can also call the voter helpline on 1950, which is the voter helpline. It is important to add the STD code of your city before the number. For help regarding the Polling station location, one needs to send an SMS <ECIPS> space <EPIC No> to 1950. "
"India is the world's largest democracy. It has a quasi-federal government which is selected directly by citizens through elections held every 5 years.

The Constitution of India - External website that opens in a new window gives power to the Election Commission of India - External website that opens in a new window to conduct regular, free and fair elections. The Representation of the People Act, 1950 and the Representation of the People Act, 1951 deals with all aspects related to conduct of elections and post election disputes.

"
"India and Australia could both have new governments by the end of next month but they will almost certainly continue to share a common problem; how to manage the proposed $10 billion Carmichael coal mining project of India's Adani Group in the Australian State of Queensland.

Elections in both countries are underway with campaigning in Australia ahead of a May 18 poll. The seven-stage Indian election ends a day after Australia votes, with counting scheduled for May 23.

The Carmichael mine, while not a campaign issue in India is certainly an issue in Australia where it is seen as a litmus test of the country's environmental policies and commitment to a low-carbon, if not a coal-free, future."
"A man has chopped off his index finger in desperation after voting for the wrong party in India’s general election.

Pawan Kumar became confused by the symbols on the electronic voting machine and voted for Narendra Modi’s party instead of its regional rival in Uttar Pradesh state on Thursday, his brother said.

Distraught, Kumar, 25, went home and chopped off his finger with a meat cleaver.

Even though votes are cast electronically at polling stations, the index finger of every voter is marked with indelible ink after they cast ballots, to make sure they do not vote again.

“He was very happy that he was voting for the first time ever,” Kumar’s brother, Kailash Chandra, told Agence France-Presse by phone. “But once he realised his mistake, he was so distraught that he chopped off his inked finger.”

“Every time he saw his ink-marked finger, he felt angry.”

Chandra said the family rushed Kumar to the hospital, and videos circulating online showed the first-time voter with his hand bandaged.

“I wanted to vote for elephant but it went to flower,” Kumar says on one video, adding that he had not been pressured to cast his ballot for a particular party.

The lotus is the symbol of Modi’s Bharatiya Janata party, while the Bahujan Samaj party, part of an alliance fighting Modi in the northern state, uses the elephant. The party symbols are used on voting machines."
India is heading for Lok Sabha election 2019 - the world's largest democratic election exercise. According to Indian General Election 2019 schedule, the national election will be held in seven rounds from April 11 and the results will be announced on May 23. This general election will choose the 17th Lok Sabha. The members of the largest party or coalition will then choose the Prime Minister. Assembly polls will also be held simultaneously in Andhra Pradesh, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and Odisha, which would make it the largest elections to be held across the country in decades. Andhra Pradesh assembly elections will be held on April 11, Sikkim Assembly elections and Arunachal Pradesh assembly elections will also take place on April 11. Odisha assembly elections will take place in four phases. The election dates are April 11, April 11, 18, 23 and 29.
"Voting began on Thursday across 95 Lok Sabha constituencies spread over 12 states and Union Territories as the second phase of the mega seven-phase electoral exercise kicked off.

The seven-phase Lok Sabha elections started on April 11 and would conclude on May 19. Counting of votes will take place on May 23.Millions voted across 95 Lok Sabha seats in 12 states and Puducherry on Thursday in the second phase of the staggered battle for a new Parliament, marred by stray violence in West Bengal and muted polling in Srinagar.

CPI-M MP and candidate Mohd Salim was attacked allegedly by Trinamool Congress activists in Raiganj constituency where he is seeking re-election when he went to a polling booth to check reports of vote rigging, officials said.

The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also accused the Trinamool Congress of unleashing violence on its opponents, a charge denied by the ruling party in West Bengal. A total of 15.7 crore electorate can pick 95 Lok Sabha members out of 1,606 contestants on Thursday."
"Indians will vote in nationwide general elections this spring.
There are approximately 879 million eligible voters. More than two-thirds of voters cast their ballots in the 2014 general elections.
In 2014, 8,251 candidates represented 464 parties.
India has the world’s second-most expensive elections, after the United States.
In 2014, parties and candidates spent more than $5 billion."
"More than 900 million people have begun voting in the most important election this year, and Bloomberg’s got you covered for all the key developments.

Will Prime Minister Narendra Modi pull off a second term, or will the Congress Party regain power in India’s general election? We’re covering how Hindu nationalism plays into the vote, analyzing the influence of billions of dollars in anonymous political contributions and reporting on the economy as India battles China for precedence on the world stage.

The complex voting process takes more than a month, and the results aren’t expected until May 23. Here’s how to keep up with everything that’s happening."
"he Election Commission has announced dates and the full schedule for the Lok Sabha election 2019. The Lok Sabha election 2019 will be held in seven phases. The results of the Lok Sabha election 2019 will be announced on May 23. Voting in the first phase was conducted on April 11. The seven phases will cover a total of 543 constituencies.

Simultaneously, elections will also be held to the assemblies of Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Sikkim, and Odisha. The results for the Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Sikkim, and Odisha assembly elections will be out on May 23 along with the Lok Sabha election result."
" Millions of voters across swathes of southern India cast ballots on Thursday in the second phase of a mammoth, staggered general election, as sporadic violence flared in the east and the insurgency-wracked state of Jammu and Kashmir.

The Election Commission said 66 percent of more than 155 million eligible Indians had voted, as per provisional data, in 95 constituencies in 12 states. Results of the election to India's 545-member parliament are expected on May 23.

In focus are the southern states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, where the main opposition Congress party and its allies need to win big if they hope to stop Prime Minister Narendra Modi from securing a second straight term.

Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have run an aggressive campaign, playing to their nationalist, Hindu-first base and attacking rivals they accuse of appeasing minorities."
"Elections in India can be a murky affair, awash with illicit cash, drugs, and alcohol offered by political parties to woo voters. This year’s parliamentary elections are no different.

Ahead of the second round of the ongoing Lok Sabha polls on April 18, seizures of cash, liquor, and precious metals like gold and silver have already crossed Rs2,600 crore ($374 million) in value—double the amount in all the nine phases of 2014 general election. This is based on the election commission of India’s data for goods seized from March 10, when the modal code of conduct kicked in, till yesterday (April 17).


There are five more phases of polling to go before the votes are counted on May 23.

Overall, Gujarat (Rs543.84 crore), Tamil Nadu (Rs514.57 crore), and Andhra Pradesh (Rs216.34 crore) saw the largest total value of goods seized. 
"
"In the second phase of India’s Lok Sabha election, 97 parliamentary constituencies go to the polls today. Lok Sabha is the lower house of India's bicameral parliament,

Voting takes place across 12 states and the Union Territory of Puducherry, including all 39 Lok Sabha constituencies in Tamil Nadu.

A few constituencies of Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Maharashtra, Manipur, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal also votes in Phase 2.

In addition to these, 35 Assembly segments under five Lok Sabha constituencies of Odisha - Bolnagir, Aska, Bargarh, Sundargarh, Kandhamal - also votes in the state polls. The Odisha Assembly election is being held in four phases simultaneously with the Lok Sabha election. Phase 1 saw polling in 28 Assembly constituencies.

Lok Sabha Election 2019 Phase 2 poll timings: 97 constituencies to vote tomorrow from 7am to 6pm local time; to end earlier at some for security concerns."
"Indian elections are often called the world's largest exercise in democracy. This month, nearly 900 million voters are eligible to cast ballots in national elections that started Thursday and will continue for more than five weeks.

They are deciding whether or not to re-elect Prime Minister Narendra Modi and members of his ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, or BJP.

Their votes will also make clear the country's level of support for a growing trend in India's politics: Hindu nationalism.

""The shape of India is at stake,"" says Milan Vaishnav, who directs the South Asia Program at the Carnegie Endowment in Washington, D.C. ""One of the important things this election is going to determine is India's future as a secular republic that embraces pluralism and adheres to the founders' notion that India's unity is strengthened by its diversity."""
"What do Pranjal, an IIT student and Vinod, an Uber driver have in common? Neither can vote in the 2019 elections. Because they study and work in cities away from their hometowns.

“We discuss politics a lot at IIT, Delhi. I was so keen to vote in my hometown Kota in the recent Rajasthan elections. But sadly I couldn’t make it as I couldn’t afford to skip my studies for 3-4 days,” says Pranjal.

Etah-resident Vinod drives an Uber cab in Noida. “I didn’t have the money or the time to travel 200 kilometres to cast a vote in the UP elections. It would have been a lot simpler if the location of a voter did not matter, only the vote did,” he says.

Like Pranjal and Vinod, crores of Indians are on the move. For work or education. And many have voter cards but live far away from their constituencies where they are registered."
"Voting has begun in the second phase of India's general elections amid massive security and a lockdown in parts of the main city in Indian-controlled Kashmir.

The city of Srinagar is one of 97 constituencies across 13 Indian states where voting was scheduled Thursday.


The election is taking place in seven phases over six weeks in the country of 1.3 billion people.

Some 900 million people are registered to vote for candidates to fill 543 seats in India's lower house of Parliament.

Voting concludes on May 19 and counting is scheduled for May 23.

The election, the world's largest democratic exercise, is seen as a referendum on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party.

Modi has used Kashmir as one of the top issues of his campaign."
Young Indians could play a crucial role in the ongoing general election in the world's largest democracy. With nearly two-thirds of India's population below 35, and more than 15 million first-time voters aged 18 and 19, young men and women have the power to swing the national vote in any direction. Ambitious, aspirational and impatient for change, these young voters are less focused on issues such as caste and religion than older generations, according to interviews with The Associated Press.
"The biggest election in history is under way. Machines have the responsibility of counting the votes in India, but how should the results be checked? A neat statistical test could be the best way to guarantee that everyone can trust the outcome.

Polls opened earlier this month and, with 900 million eligible voters, the election will take more than a month to complete. Since 2004, people in India have cast their ballots in national elections using electronic voting machines (EVMs)"
"Millions of voters across swathes of southern India cast ballots on Thursday in the second phase of a mammoth, staggered general election, as sporadic violence flared in the east and the insurgency-wracked state of Jammu and Kashmir.The Election Commission said 66 percent of more than 155 million eligible Indians had voted, as per provisional data, in 95 constituencies in 12 states. Results of the election to India’s 545-member parliament are expected on May 23.

In focus are the southern states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, where the main opposition Congress party and its allies need to win big if they hope to stop Prime Minister Narendra Modi from securing a second straight term.

Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have run an aggressive campaign, playing to their nationalist, Hindu-first base and attacking rivals they accuse of appeasing minorities."
"The contest in Kerala has primarily been between two traditional rivals — the ruling CPM-led  LDF  and the Congress-led  UDF
Thanks to the Sabarimala issue, BJP has emerged a force to reckon with in at least some constituencies
Congress President Rahul Gandhi has sprang a surprise by announcing his candidature from the Wayanad"
"Voters across India cast ballots Thursday in the second round of the country's mega elections, amid more violence including a clash between protesters and security forces in tense Kashmir state.

More than 157 million of India's 900 million voters are eligible to cast ballots on the second of seven days of voting in the world's biggest election.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi is seeking a second term but faces a stiff challenge from the opposition Congress party, which is hoping to capitalise on Modi's lacklustre economic record.

Authorities have ramped up security across the 95 constituencies voting Thursday, including restive Kashmir.

Three people were injured in the state's main city Srinagar after security forces opened fire on protesters with shotgun pellets and live bullets, a police officer told AFP on condition of anonymity."
"Voting in the second phase of India’s general election on Thursday remained largely peaceful amid massive security and a lockdown in parts of the main city in Indian-controlled Kashmir.

Indian officials said the turnout was over 60% across 13 Indian states where voting took place.

Kashmiri Muslim separatist leaders who challenge Hindu-majority India’s sovereignty over the disputed region urged a boycott of the vote, calling it an illegitimate exercise under military occupation. Most polling stations in Srinagar appeared deserted, with more police, paramilitary soldiers and election staff than voters. Srinagar was one of 95 constituencies which voted Thursday."
"Bharatiya Janata Party leader Raman Singh speaks at his Raipur residence about his party’s electoral prospects, combating anti-incumbency and naxalism.Three months is a limited time. But in the last three months, the Bhupesh Bhagel government has made so many mistakes that it will be a plus for us.

Within the first 100 days, the Congress government is walking in the exact opposite direction from the vision they presented ahead of the Assembly polls. They promised prohibition. Instead, alcohol prices have gone up and more shops have been opened. They had assured unemployment allowance but out of 23 lakh not even 23 have got a single penny. The farm loan waiver is also extended to a very limited number of farmers. And they have closed down all social welfare schemes of the BJP government, like the Charan Paduka Yojana (under which footwear was distributed to Tribals collecting tendu leaves). The fiscal deficit has shot up to 6%, the State treasury is empty and there is not enough money to pay even salaries."
"Voting began Thursday in India, the world's biggest democracy, to pick the next central government. The world's second most populous nation is a key economic and security ally of the U.S., and the outcome of the elections will have a major impact on stability in the region, and possibly on New Delhi's ties with Washington. 


The election is being watched closely by every major world power, with a focus on India's massive and growing economy, unemployment, and renewed tension with India's neighbor and fellow nuclear weapons state, Pakistan.  

Below are some of the key points that make India's exercise in democracy so interesting, and important"
"The elections for India’s lower house of parliament, the Lok Sabha, are the biggest exercise in democracy in the world. As India’s population has boomed, organising the vote has become a vast logistical operation, costing tens of trillions of rupees (hundreds of millions of dollars).

At stake is leadership of the world’s second largest population, which is on course to eclipse China’s within the next five years, and an economy some predict will overtake the United States by 2030.

The last election in 2014 saw Narendra Modi become prime minister leading a coalition dominated by his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), succeeding Manmohan Singh, whose Indian National Congress party under Rahul Gandhi fared poorly."
The Board of Governors, the highest decision-making body of the IMF, consists of one governor and one alternate governor for each member country. The governor is appointed by the member country and is usually the minister of finance or the governor of the central bank. All powers of the IMF are vested in the Board of Governors. The Board of Governors may delegate to the Executive Board all except certain reserved powers. The Board of Governors normally meets once a year.
"India’s 2019 general-election campaign kicks off on April 11 with the world’s largest exercise in democracy: more than 900 million eligible voters, 1 million polling stations and seven phases spread across five weeks. The drama culminates on May 23, when Indians find out if they’re in for another five years of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or whether the opposition Congress Party, which ruled India for decades after independence, has staged a comeback.

Modi came to power in 2014 promising to supercharge India’s economy. But he has struggled with surging unemployment and implemented unpopular measures that hurt small businesses. The BJP was accused in January of suppressing a report showing joblessness at a 45-year high. Lately, Modi has pivoted to a national-security platform, capitalizing on tensions with Pakistan over a suicide attack in Indian-administered Kashmir. Amid tit-for-tat airstrikes, Modi’s approach appealed to desires for national pride and strength."
" A month before the election in the world’s largest democracy begins on April 11, China’s Global Times newspaper ran an acerbic opinion piece headlined “Modi Playing China Card to Win Election”.
Academic Jabin T Jacob was not amused. On the contrary, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi had stayed studiously circumspect on China, he said. And there had been barely any election spotlight on the neighbour which India views as a strategic rival, said the associate professor of International Relations and Governance Studies.
The Shiv Nadar University don had earlier written a commentary for an Indian news website in which he lamented the lack of political spine to bring China into the campaign."
"With elections under way in many states of India, all Indian citizens who are eligible to vote are given a chance to exercise their franchise and participate in the electoral process. The Indian Constitution has granted the right to vote to all Indian citizens of sound mind above the age of 18, irrespective of an individual’s caste, religion, social or economic status. This right is universally granted to all Indians, with a few exceptions.

As a voter, you are entitled to certain rights and privileges as laid down by the Constitution, which safeguards the rights of the voter. It also lays down the conditions under which this privilege is granted to citizens. Voting is not a fundamental right, but is a legal right granted to citizens.

So what are the rights granted to voters in India? Given below are some of right and duties of voters.

Who Can Vote?
As per the Indian Constitution, all Indian citizens above the age of 18 years who have registered themselves as voters are eligible to vote. These individuals can vote in national, state, district as well as local government body elections.

No individual can be detained or prevented from voting, unless they fulfil the criteria for disqualification.

Every voter is allowed one vote only. A voter can vote at the constituency where he has registered himself only.

Eligible voters have to register themselves in the constituency where they live, upon which they will be issued photo election identity cards (also known as EPIC cards). Individuals are not permitted to participate in the electoral process if they have not registered or do not possess a voter ID card."
"The world's largest democratic elections are due to take place over the next two months.They are so large and involve so many people that they have to be carried out in seven phases.

As many as 879 million Indians are expected to vote, using more than one million polling stations.Some 11 million election officials will be employed to make the process go according to plan - but it is a complex operation to ensure there are no irregularities.

While dozens of parties are taking part, most support one of two leaders of the main parties."
"Following the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s electoral loss in three key states to the opposition, the budget marks the last major opportunity for the BJP to consolidate support from its voter base, pointed out Rajiv Biswas, Asia Pacific chief economist at IHS Markit.
The government’s new budget will likely likely introduce measures to boost support from rural voters, as well as the small and medium businesses.
The need to maintain fiscal prudence, however, will keep the sweeteners in check, putting major constraints on the party’s bid to shape an election budget, analysts say."
"Air pollution is a crisis facing India, which is home to seven of the world's 10 most polluted cities.

Multiple studies show it is a leading health problem, causing millions of deaths and children to grow up with reduced lung capacities.

Yet in the general elections currently under way, air pollution has failed to take off as a political issue.It merits scant mention in the political discourse and little or none in election campaigns and rallies.

That the two main national parties, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress, have dedicated one paragraph each to pollution in their manifestos is being hailed by environmentalists as a good step.

The Congress party said it would recognise pollution as a ""national public health emergency"" in its manifesto, while the ruling BJP, in its 47-page election manifesto, also said it would continue with plans drawn up by the government to reduce pollution."
"The discontent of farmers, the largest workforce in India, might prove decisive in the ongoing general elections, where the ruling right-wing Bharatiya Janata Party, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is looking to win a second term in power.

In the rural areas of the Mathura district in northern India, voting day - earlier this week - had coincided with the harvesting period of the wheat crop, but could not deter angry farmers from queuing up to vote."
"At least four people were killed in clashes Thursday on the first day of polling in India's general elections, a six-week process that's seen as a referendum on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, officials said Thursday.

Police said two workers of Andhra Pradesh state's ruling Telugu Desam party were killed in a confrontation with supporters of a regional opposition party, YSR Congress. One election official was killed in an alleged attack by suspected insurgents in India's remote northeast, the Election Commission said.

Violent clashes were also reported elsewhere in Andhra Pradesh  state, where voters are casting ballots for 25 members of India's lower house of Parliament, the Lok Sabha, and 175 state assembly seats. Another person was killed by government forces during a protest in disputed Kashmir.

Outside of Andhra Pradesh, voting was taking place Thursday in 17 other Indian states and two Union Territories in the first of a seven-phase election staged over six weeks. Turnout was estimated at more than 60% of voters."
"With India's monthlong general elections underway, the country's influential merchants appear to have thrown their weight behind Prime Minister Narendra Modi, despite having suffered from his government's demonetization drive and a chaotic rollout of a goods and services tax.

The drastic demonetization aimed at curbing untaxed wealth, corruption and counterfeit currency was particularly painful as it took roughly 15.4 trillion rupees ($221.2 billion) worth of large-denomination bank notes out of circulation in the cash-heavy economy, which had a huge impact on India's tens of millions of merchants, traders and shop owners.

""It is true that our business was affected during the ban on high-value bank notes in 2016 and also when the GST came into force in 2017, but it was a temporary disruption,"" said Suneet Goyal, a mom-and-pop store owner in New Delhi, which votes on May 12 in a seven-phase election across the country that began on April 11 and ends on May 19. All ballots will be counted on May 23."
"Nine-hundred million people have a chance to cast their votes in India’s general election. The sheer scale of the operation in the world’s largest democracy means that voting is taking place in several different phases, with results to be announced on May 23.

The stakes are high, with the incumbent prime minister, Narendra Modi, and his BJP party seeking a second term in office and the opinion polls pointing to a much closer race than in Modi’s first victory in 2014."
ALMOST ONE in eight of the world’s adult population is eligible to vote in the election for the next Lok Sabha, the lower house of India’s parliament. Something close to one-seventh of them were invited to vote today, April 11th. The rest of the nearly 900m people who may choose to exercise their franchise will wait their turn over the course of the next 37 days, in a series of six more phases. They are staggered, such that about six days pass between each round, and scattered all over the country, in a splotchy-looking map that the Election Commission of India has calibrated carefully. One effect is that no one will know who won any given seat—let alone whether the prime minister, Narendra Modi, keeps control of the government, or lets it slip to some unfathomable assembly of opposition parties—until May 23rd. That morning all the ballots are to be counted within just a few hours.
"The figures involved in India's general election are staggering: 900 million voters, 83 million first-time voters, 11 million poll workers, nearly 4 million electronic voting machines, 1 million polling booths and 570 special trains for migrant laborers and security personnel.

Such numbers convey the scale of the world’s biggest democratic exercise. But it’s smaller numbers that show India’s commitment to reach every voter, no matter how remote.

That includes a single polling booth in Gir Forest National Park in Gujarat set up for the sole human inhabitant, a Hindu priest who lives among the lions. Polling officials hike for a whole day to reach the remote village of Malogam in Arunachal Pradesh, where just one woman is registered to vote.

In India's six-week marathon election that began this week, the Election Commission has ruled that no voter should have to travel more than 2 kilometers, or just over a mile, from their home to cast a ballot, whether they live on a Himalayan peak or an island in the Bay of Bengal."
India has started its multi-phase, weeks long general elections that will determine the composition of the Lok Sabha, India’s lower house of parliament, and also the next prime minister. Results will be announced May 23. To make sense of the world’s largest exercise of democracy, this episode features a discussion led by Brookings Fellow Tanvi Madan, director of the India Project, with three scholars, one each from the American Enterprise Institute, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and Brookings India.
"When India became independent in 1947, few people expected the country to survive. Today, it has not only survived but also emerged as a thriving democracies, says University of York's Indrajit Roy.
Indians are about to start voting in the world’s largest democratic exercise. The country’s 900 million registered voters will vote in national elections between Apr 11 and May 19 across 1 million polling stations in 543 constituencies. 

India has a Westminster-style parliamentary democracy with voters electing their representatives to India’s lower house of parliament, the Lok Sabha. 

Voting has been staggered over seven phases to ensure that the electoral process is provided the necessary security. The results will be declared on May 23.


Read more at https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/commentary/what-at-stake-in-the-india-elections-11429424"
"As Indian voters go to the polls in the first phase of the country’s national parliamentary elections, they may be helping decide whether the world’s largest democracy will continue to deserve that label.

The 2019 Indian election—set to be one of the world’s most expensive—will take place in seven phases up until May 19. In these phases, each conducted in different regions of the country, voters will elect their representatives to the Lok Sabha, the lower house of India’s Parliament. The states of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Sikkim, and Arunachal Pradesh will also hold elections for their state-level legislative assemblies. Following the last phase, votes will be counted, and the newly elected or reelected members of the Lok Sabha will then choose the next prime minister of India. The contest will almost certainly come down to current Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Rahul Gandhi of the Indian National Congress Party. Out of India’s 1.3 billion people, 900 million are expected to turn out to choose their leaders."
"Modi is the front-runner. He and his ruling Bharatiya Janata Party are running for another five-year term. The BJP is a Hindu nationalist party that's brought India's majority Hindu faith into politics and public life in unprecedented ways. Under the BJP, many Indian states have banned beef, because cows are sacred to Hindus. They've revised school textbooks and changed the names of Indian cities with Muslim-sounding names. Modi has campaigned as a pro-business, anti-corruption candidate, and he sought to portray himself as a safe pair of hands during recent violence with neighboring Pakistan.

Modi's main challenger is India's main opposition party, the Congress party, and its leader Rahul Gandhi (no relation to India's freedom leader Mahatma Gandhi). Congress is a secular, socialist party that has pledged to protect India's minorities and improve life for the poor. It's a dynastic party; Gandhi's great-grandfather, Jawaharlal Nehru, was India's first prime minister. The party has been run by his descendants ever since, and it has dominated Indian politics until only recently."
"As India awaits the final results of its marathon elections, officials are getting ready to breathe a collective sigh of relief that the world’s largest democratic exercise is nearly over. Polling, which started on April 7, took place on nine separate days over five weeks, and ended on May 12. Voter turnout hit a record high of over 66%, compared to 58% in the last national polls in 2009, with final results expected on May 16. “Despite the heat of the Indian summer, we have had a historic all-time high voter turnout, which was a great achievement,” says Akshay Rout, director general of India’s Election Commission.This was not India’s longest election cycle — 2009 was a few days longer, says Rout — but it wasn’t exactly speedy. So why does it take so long for India to vote? The short of it is this: India’s big. According to the government, there were some 814 million eligible voters in this election — more than the combined populations of the entire European Union or North America. Those voters speak dozens of languages and live in some of the world’s most chaotic urban spaces and some of its most isolated villages. “This is not only the biggest election in the world, it’s the largest human management project in the world,” says S.Y. Quraishi, former chief election commissioner and author of An Undocumented Wonder — The Making of the Great Indian Election. “It’s a very plural society, and we have to make sure nobody is left out.”

"
The world’s largest democracy will head to the polls in April and May to elect a new parliament amid economic troubles, renewed tensions with Pakistan, and concerns about religious violence. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is asking Indian citizens to give his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) another five years to deliver the economic transformation it promised in 2014, and to keep the country safe after a recent terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir State. Disparate opposition parties, concerned about what rising Hindu nationalism means for India’s minorities, have banded together to try to unseat Modi.
"As India launches into its first national poll in five years, the giant state of Uttar Pradesh in the country’s north looms over the election.

No other state has been so critical to the fortunes of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and its leader Narendra Modi. He is now seeking a second term as prime minister after dominating Indian politics since he swept into power in 2014. And no other state encapsulates the complicated battles the BJP and Mr. Modi have fought—and mostly won—against an array"
"In the days following a suicide bombing against Indian security forces in Kashmir this year, a message began circulating in WhatsApp groups across the country. It claimed that a leader of the Congress Party, the national opposition, had promised a large sum of money to the attacker’s family, and to free other “terrorists” and “stone pelters” from prison, if the state voted for Congress in upcoming parliamentary elections.

The message was posted to dozens of WhatsApp groups that appeared to promote Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s governing Bharatiya Janata Party, and seemed aimed at painting the BJP’s main national challenger as being soft on militancy in Kashmir, which remains contested between India and Pakistan, just as the two countries seemed to be on the brink of war.

The claim, however, was fake. No member of Congress, at either a national or a state level, had made any such statement. Yet delivered in the run-up to the election, and having spread with remarkable speed, that message offered a window into a worsening problem here."
"As many as 900 million people are expected to vote in India’s national elections in April and May. The elections come amid a recent increase in tensions between India and Pakistan, as well as allegations that mobile applications including WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter are fueling the spread of fake news in the world’s largest democracy.

Two surveys conducted by Pew Research Center in 2018 shed light on how adults in India see their elected officials and their democracy – as well as how they feel about the spread of misinformation via mobile technology"
"In The Verdict -- Decoding India's Elections, Dr Prannoy Roy and Dorab R Sopariwala, pioneers and arguably the best names in psephology in India, analyse databases of elections past and point out trends that will impact the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.

And they should know.

Dr Roy, as co-founder of the NDTV media group and Sopariwala, its editorial advisor and a market research veteran, have spent close to 40 years studying Indian elections and the electorate.

Published by Penguin Random House India, The Verdict is the go-to book for the largest exercise in democracy in the world.

""For an important issue to become an election issue, it has to fulfil two conditions -- one, the issue has to be important to me as a voter, and second, one party must be seen to be better than the other parties at solving the problem -- which is why sometimes issues like corruption don't become an election issue because all parties are believed to be equally corrupt,"" Dr Roy says."
"As voting begins in the world's biggest democracy, India's film and creative community is more divided than ever, as well as more vocal, when it comes to the state of the country's politics. 

In a first of sorts, scores of filmmakers and other creative talent have openly urged voters to reject Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP), which is seeking a second term after it swept the 2014 elections in a landslide victory. The BJP is considered a right-wing Hindu nationalist party, and critics have slammed it for fueling a polarizing and charged political atmosphere.The country's diversified film industry not only includes mainstream Hindi-language Bollywood but also a robust regional-language industry and a burgeoning indie scene. More than a hundred filmmakers, mostly indie and art house helmers such as acclaimed documentary-maker Anand Patwardhan, Gurvinder Singh (Anhey Ghodey Da Daan) and South Indian directors Sanal Kumar Sasidharan (Sexy Durga) and Vetrimaaran (Visaranai),  recently issued a statement urging voters to ""do everything in their capacity to keep this harmful regime from coming back to power.""

"
"Godrej and the Ballot Boxes for for India’s First Elections
Posted on April 20, 2019 by arZan • 0 Comments

When independent India was laying the groundwork for its first elections in 1952, clueless to the rest of the world, workers at a factory in Mumbai’s Vikhroli were making history.

They were manufacturing the first-ever ballot boxes to be used in the general elections.

At Plant 1 of the Godrej & Boyce Mfg Co Ltd, these workers burned the midnight oil to produce nearly 12.83 lakh ballot boxes within four months.

Here’s the lesser-known story.
The first election was a result of the continuous efforts of then Chief Election Commissioner, also a mathematician Sukumar Sen, and his team. You can read all about this civil servant who set up India’s extraordinary electoral system here.

The real unsung heroes though were the faceless workers at Godrej & Boyce Mfg Co Ltd who supplied the 12.83 lakh steel ballot boxes.

The Election Commission drew pictorial symbols for political parties, so voters didn’t have to read the names out. This ensured that even those who were not literate could cast their vote without needing someone to help them."
"Now, the time has come when RtoV means Responsibility to Vote.

Irrespective of the fact whether you’re a fan of All India Trinamool Congress, Bahujan Samaj Party, Bharatiya Janata Party, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Indian National Congress & National Congress Party, this guide will be proved most helpful to you in the registration procedure.First of all, just learn that there are a total of four conditions if you’re willing to be a voter in India:

1. The government has not banned you or disqualified you from being a voter/ elector in future. Directly or indirectly, you must be a resident of the region where you want to vote. Thus, it is not possible to enrol in Kanyakumari if all your indirect and direct connections are in Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh).

3. On 1st of January of the year of revision of electoral roll, you must have touched the age of 18 Years. Otherwise, being in the pre-mature category, you will not be eligible to take part in the vote.

4. To be a part of the vote for X country, you must be a permanent resident of that country, in your case, it’s India."
"There are just few days remaining for the 17th Lok Sabha Elections. This year, according to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, there are 90 crore Indians who have registered themselves to elect the new Prime Minister of India. Among them, there are 1.5 crore are new voters in the age group of 18 to 19. But if you haven’t registered yet and above the age of 18 as of January 1, 2019, do it fast.

To enroll yourself as a voter, a person needs to be an Indian citizen. To get a voters ID card, citizens have to fill an application form (Form 6), remember it’s an offline process. Later, they must submit it to the Electoral Registration Officer (ERO) of their constituency in two copies along with two passport size photos and age/residence proof copies. The EC will rectify all the details filled-in and will order the inclusion of the voter in the electoral lists which are three in types, General Electors (residents), Overseas electors (NRI) and service electors (voter having service qualification).

Form 6 will be available with Electoral Registration Officers/Assistant Electoral Registration Officers and Booth Level Officers."
Indian elections began today, the first of several days of voting over the next few weeks. Nearly 900 million people are eligible to vote in what is seen as the world's largest democracy. But the spread of fake news and disinformation across social media is testing the Election Commission. Here & Now's Lisa Mullins talks with the BBC's Rahul Tandon (@rishavtandon) in Kolkata, India.
"India is heading to the polls in the world’s biggest democratic election and a number of different figures could emerge as India’s next prime minister in May.

The incumbent, Narendra Modi, and his main opponent, the Congress Party president, Rahul Gandhi, are obviously the most likely candidates. But if they both fail to gain sufficient seats to form a government, they could be displaced from within their own parties. It is also possible that, in a fragmented parliament, another politician from one of the regional parties could stitch together a coalition."
"  Under the shadow of Jodhpur’s imposing Mehrangarh Fort, the Pokar Sweet Home is famous for its traditional Indian snacks: thick creamy lassis, batter-fried stuffed chilli peppers and chickpea flour dumplings. But these days, the food shop founded 80 years ago has a new stream of thoroughly modern visitors: young men — clad in the bright red and orange T-shirts of rival foreign-backed food delivery services Zomato and Swiggy — collecting orders placed online by customers across the city. 

Om Prakash Bhati, the 51-year-old son of Pokar’s late founder, says the recent launch of Zomato, Swiggy and Uber Eats in Jodhpur has boosted his sales dramatically, after a turbulent period when his business was hit by a draconian 2016 cash ban and a complicated overhaul of India’s tax system.
"
"Facebook announced today that it has removed 1,126 Pages, groups and accounts ahead of India's general election. Most of the accounts, which were based in India and Pakistan, were flagged for ""coordinated inauthentic behavior."" In total, Facebook removed 702 Pages, groups and accounts linked with two networks in India. Another 103 Pages, groups and accounts (across Facebook and Instagram) were deleted in connection with a network in Pakistan, and 321 Facebook Pages and accounts in India were removed for violating the company's rules against spam.

This is the latest in Facebook's ongoing attempts to keep the platform from being manipulated around elections. Earlier this month, Facebook removed 137 accounts in the UK for stoking political tension. In January, the company removed more than 900 Pages in Iran and Indonesia for coordinated inauthentic behavior. And last year, it pulled Pages in advance of elections in Iran and Bangladesh. In the US, Facebook had banned accounts in advance of the midterm elections and suspended accounts for pushing false information in state elections."
"As the first of India’s 900 million eligible voters head to the polls on April 11, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party appears poised for re-election. A recent opinion survey by the Center for the Study of Developing Societies shows Modi’s popularity recovering sharply from a recent slump and returning to its high levels of two years ago. A poll by Firstpost-IPSOS pegs Modi’s approval rating at 63%, or four times higher than the 16% his putative rival Congress President Rahul Gandhi garners.

Needless to say, Indian elections are parliamentary rather than presidential. Powerful state satraps, caste-based coalitions and constituency level dynamics will affect the final outcome. And as the astute commentator Santosh Desai points out, the intensity of many BJP supporters could mislead forecasters. “The BJP’s cheerleaders could well be the force that converts a tight election into one the party wins comfortably,” says Desai. “Alternatively, it could obscure the reality on the ground. We could mistake the noise of a few for the assent of the many.”"
Politics is one conversation that can make every head turn. You can miss sports, movie, the latest trends but you can’t turn your eyes away from diplomacy and country affairs. How is the current government performing and who will win the 2019 Lok Sabha election is always up for debate.While for us it is just a conversation that takes place over a cup of steaming tea, for Gaurav Pradhan it is a passion that drives him.A top ten global social CIO, cyber security, Information Technology expert, data scientist, strategist, advisor, Pradhan is a brand in himself. He rose to fame in 2013 and since then has acquired thousands of followers. Such is his popularity that even India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi is following him.
"Being the largest State of India, Uttar Pradesh will vote for Lok Sabha Elections 2019 in 7 phases. The counting will happen on May 23 and the results will be declared on the same day. 
During 2014 Lok sabha Elections, Uttar Pradesh elected its representatives for the parliament from its 80 constituencies. The BJP got a thumping victory by winning from 71 constituencies. The Congress party got 2 seats, the Samajwadi party won 5 seats and Apna Dal bagged 2 seats from the state. 
"
"The people of India, the world's biggest democracy by population, will begin voting next month to choose a new government in an election that will have major ramifications for stability in a volatile region. The nuclear-armed U.S. ally appeared to be on the brink of war just days ago as tension soared with its nuclear-armed neighbour Pakistan.  


India's general elections -- the world's largest single exercise in democracy with 900 million eligible voters among India's 1.3 billion people -- will be held in seven phases beginning on April 11, the country's Election Commission announced on Sunday. The last phase will be held on May 19, with the results to be declared on May 23. 

Voters will pick 543 members to fill the lower house of parliament, called the Lok Sabha. Any party or coalition of parties which holds a minimum of 272 seats in the house gets to form the government and name the next prime minister."
The Supreme Court, in September last year, upheld the right of voters to reject all candidates contesting the elections, saying it would go a long way in cleansing the political system of the country. The apex court directed the Election Commission to have an option of 'None Of The Above' (NOTA) on the electronic voting machines (EVMs) and ballot papers in a major electoral reform.The EVMs have the NOTA option at the end of the candidates' list. Earlier, in order to cast a negative ballot, a voter had to inform the presiding officer at the polling booth. A NOTA vote doesn't require the involvement of the presiding officer.The NOTA option was first used in the assembly elections held in five states last year. More than 15 lakh people exercised the option in the states polls. The figure, however, was lower than 1.5% of the total voters. Around 50,000 voters opted for NOTA in Delhi; 3.56 lakh in Chhattisgarh; 5.9 lakh in Madhya Pradesh and 5.67 lakh in Rajasthan.
India's 2019 national elections are widely anticipated to be the "WhatsApp elections". Against a backdrop of rapidly improving internet connectivity and rising smartphone use, the number of people using private messaging service WhatsApp has soared since its India launch in mid-2010 to more than 200m – more users than in any other democracy. And now the country's political parties are moving to capitalise on this mass communication channel.
"It’s important that people know more about the ads they see — especially those that reference political figures, political parties, elections, and legislation. That’s why we’re making big changes to the way we manage these ads on Facebook and Instagram. We’ve rolled out these changes in the US, Brazil, and the UK, and next, we’re taking our first steps towards bringing transparency to ads related to politics in India.
This is key as we work hard to prevent abuse on Facebook ahead of India’s general elections next year.Now anyone who wants to run an ad in India related to politics will need to first confirm their identity and location, and give more details about who placed the ad. The identity and location confirmation will take a few weeks so advertisers can start that process today by using their mobile phones or computer to submit proof of identity and location. This will help avoid delays when they run political ads next year."
"At a point in time where corruption is rampant within our government, and the youth of India are becoming more apathetic towards voting, we understand the importance of educating the youth, our future leaders, to rise above and demand the accountability we deserve. In order to do this however, we must first stimulate the youth's political awareness. We want students to know that utilizing their right to vote can maximize the impact they make in their communities.

However, we believe that once these youth are aware of the worsening political scenario and socio-economic conditions present in India, we must empower them to bring about the necessary change. Thus, we focus on developing core leadership skills that will enable the youth to demand accountability and create change. "
"the startup working with WhatsApp  on this election disinformation initiative (aka Project Checkpoint) has released an FAQ which makes it clear the effort is, first and foremost, a data-gathering exercise.

It writes that the tipline has been set up “only as a means to collect information that is otherwise inaccessible given the nature of private messaging”. So, as we suggested earlier, it’s an attempt to get a snapshot of stuff circulating invisibly on WhatsApp’s end-to-end encrypted platform.

“Checkpoint’s research is using a WhatsApp tipline to crowdsource data that would otherwise not be accessible,” confirms Proto."
On April 11, Indians head to the polls to elect a new Lok Sabha—the more powerful lower house of Parliament. But it is not a one-day vote: The election spans five weeks to give a potential 900 million eligible voters a chance to cast their ballots. And while there are several different political parties vying for power, the election is largely a referendum on the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the performance of his Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has ruled India for the last five years with an absolute parliamentary majority. Modi’s 2014 victory marked the first time in three decades that a single party won a majority of seats in Parliament; polling data suggests that won’t happen this time, so a coalition government is a more likely outcome. If that happens, governing the world’s largest democracy is about to get more difficult.
"WhatsApp is launching a new fact-checking service in India ahead of the country’s upcoming elections. Reuters reports that users can now forward messages to the Checkpoint Tipline, where a team lead by local startup Proto will asses and mark them as either “true,” “false,” “misleading,” or “disputed.” These messages will also be used to create a database to study and understand the spread of misinformation. India’s elections are due to start on April 11th, and final results are expected on May 23rd.

The Facebook-owned messaging service has come under continuous fire for facilitating the spread of false and misleading information in India, where viral rumors have been linked to almost a dozen deaths. WhatsApp was also accused of facilitating the spread of viral information during last year’s Brazillian election."
"Young Indians could play a crucial role in the ongoing general election in the world’s largest democracy.

With nearly two-thirds of India’s population below 35, and more than 15 million first-time voters aged 18 and 19, young men and women have the power to swing the national vote in any direction.

Ambitious, aspirational and impatient for change, young voters - at least in India’s capital - are less focused on issues such as caste and religion than older generations, according to interviews with The Associated Press.

They are interested, instead, on landing jobs after college, living in cleaner cities with breathable air, increasing women’s safety and competing with the world’s biggest economies.

Current Prime Minister Narendra Modi seems to be the favorite, riding a wave of Hindu nationalism that peaked after India’s air force attacked an alleged militant base in Pakistan to avenge a suicide attack that killed more than 40 soldiers in disputed Kashmir."
"Polling in Tripura East Lok Sabha seat deferred to April 23, says EC
Lok Sabha polls in Tamil Nadu's Vellore cancelled after cash recovery
Premium Content	Rural Bengaluru seeks policy change to address farm distress, lack of jobs
Central forces to guard 80% booths in Bengal's 3 LS seats in first phase
Strength of 'one vote' enabled surgical, air strike in Pakistan: PM Modi
Lok Sabha elections in Tamil Nadu's Vellore cancelled after cash haul"
"India's election commission on Monday banned a Hindu state chief minister from campaigning for three days after anti-Muslim comments in an election that will end next month.
The saffron-clad Yogi Adityanath, a member of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ruling party, had been warned this month about his campaign speeches, the election commission said.
The commission said Adityanath, chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, had spoken about a ""green virus"" in a speech last week in reference to Muslim voters who he said were being wooed by opposition parties.
Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been playing to its nationalist base and painting its rivals as soft on terrorism and eager to appease Muslims, who make up about 14 percent of India's 1.3 billion population.

A BJP spokesman said the party was inclusive towards all communities.

Spokesman Harish Srivastava said: “The party believes in all-together development for all, and we don't believe in any polarisation.”"
"Voting for the Lok Sabha polls has begun, with two phases completed. Delhi will go to polls on 12 May, the sixth phase. 

To vote, your name must be on the electoral role (here’s how to check). Once you have confirmed your name in the voting list, you should check your polling booth. Mobile phones, cameras and other such gadgets are not allowed inside the booth (here is how to vote).

Political parties are yet to finalise candidates for the seven Lok Sabha seats in Delhi because hectic parleys are going on between the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) over seat-sharing and alliance.

AAP has, however, already announced candidates for all seven seats. The party has fielded Pankaj Gupta from Chandni Chowk, Dilip Pandey from North East Delhi, Atishi from East Delhi, Brajesh Goel from New Delhi, Gugan Singh from North West Delhi, Raghav Chadha from South Delhi and Balbir Singh Jakhar from West Delhi.

Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is “keenly watching” developments related to the alliance and has sped up its candidate selection process."
"An Indian man chopped off his index finger in desperation after voting for the wrong party in the country's national election.
Pawan Kumar became confused by the symbols on the electronic voting machine and voted for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's party instead of its regional rival in Uttar Pradesh state on Thursday, his brother told AFP.
Distraught, the 25-year-old Kumar went home and chopped off his finger with a meat cleaver.
Even though votes are cast electronically at polling stations, the index finger of every voter is marked with indelible ink after they cast ballots, to make sure they do not vote again.
"
"India’s general elections, the biggest democratic exercise in the world, get underway in April and will decide the leadership and direction of the country of 1.3 billion people for the next five years.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party came to power with a historic landslide victory in the last national polls, in 2014."
"The Election Commission of India on Saturday ordered producers to stop streaming a web series about Prime Minister Narendra Modi amid concerns it could give him an unfair advantage in the country's general election.
The decision follows a similar clamp down on a TV channel devoted to the right-wing premier, and the banning of a flattering Bollywood film.
India's mammoth six-week polls — the world's biggest democratic exercise — began on April 11 and will run until May 19. A ban on campaigning is in effect during the 5-1/2-week vote."
"Indians are about to start voting in the world’s largest democratic exercise. The country’s 900m registered voters will vote in national elections between April 11 and May 19 across 1m polling stations in 543 constituencies. India has a Westminster-style parliamentary democracy with voters electing their representatives to India’s lower house of parliament, the Lok Sabha. Voting has been staggered over seven phases to ensure that the electoral process is provided the necessary security. The results will be declared on May 23.
India’s current prime minister, Narendra Modi, is up for re-election as the head of the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies the National Democratic Alliance. A polarising figure, opinions diverge sharply over Modi’s record in government and his legacy.
Supporters insist that Modi has ushered in economic development, military strength, national pride and a sense of confidence among the country’s Hindu majority. Critics challenge such claims, pointing to soaring unemployment (the worst in 45 years), agrarian distress, reassertion of caste privilege and social polarisation."
Maharashtra will vote for Lok Sabha Elections 2019 in 4 Phases. The polling dates for Maharashtra will be on April 11, 18, 23 and 29. The votes will be counted for all the constituencies on May 23, 2019. The results of the Lok Sabha Elections 2019 will be announced on the same day. The Congress party on Wednesday released its second list of 21 candidates including Priya Dutta who will be contesting from the Mumbai North-Central seat
"Indian election authorities have cancelled voting in a constituency in the southern state of Tamil Nadu after seizing more than 110 million rupees ($1.6m) they believe was meant to influence the outcome.
It is the first time a ballot has been cancelled in a national election over attempted vote-buying, officials said on Wednesday.
The decision comes as Indians vote in a mammoth national election being held over several phases. The next phase of voting is scheduled for Thursday."
"An Indian voter has seemingly taken drastic measures after casting his ballot for the wrong party, by chopping off his finger.
The man who meant to vote for the regional Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) cut off his finger after he wrongly voted for the nationally ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the second phase of parliamentary polls 2019. 
Pawan Kumar, said he accidentally pressed the wrong the button.""I accidentally pressed the button having Lotus symbol instead of an elephant. I chopped my finger for the mistake,"" he told news agency ANI."
"It’s the world’s largest democratic election, and the stakes are incredibly high: Voters will ultimately get to decide whether India remains a secular nation, as enshrined in its constitution, or become a Hindu nation.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are seeking reelection after a successful five years of being in power. Modi and the BJP swept into power in the 2014 elections, with a majority win that had not been seen in 30 years. Since then, Modi hasn’t hesitated to push a strident form of Hindu nationalism that has polarized India."
"India’s most anticipated events of 2019 — General Elections of Lok Sabha is knocking our doors! The prominent parties standing for the elections, party leaders and representatives have a busy schedule organizing campaigns and convincing people to vote. While the media is busy capturing all events starting from press conferences to any gatherings, and putting it in front of public, the public is deeply engrossed with latest news and developments.

The phenomenal growth in real time data tracking and analyzing techniques has inspired data scientists to visualize and predict sentiments, build real-time models to predict the winners, etc."
"Priyanka Chaturvedi, a spokesperson for India's main opposition Congress, has resigned from the party.
Sanjay Raut, a spokesman for the Shiv Sena - a hardline Hindu party - has said she has joined them instead. She has not confirmed this.
Her decision comes two days after she tweeted her anger with a party decision to reinstate some workers who she alleged had ""misbehaved"" with her during a press conference in the northern town of Matura."
"Voters in Kerala's Wayanad constituency are going to have plenty of Gandhis to choose from when they go to polls on April 23.
Out of the 20 contesting candidates, three are namesakes of Rahul Gandhi, the scion of the Nehru-Gandhi political dynasty.
Rahul Gandhi K E, Raghul Gandhi K, and K M Sivaprasad Gandhi are the other three men who will be competing against the leader of India’s main opposition party, Congress.
The more famous Rahul Gandhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s main opponent, is contesting elections from two seats, one from his traditional seat in Amethi in Uttar Pradesh Kerala's Wayanad -- which he chose during this election cycle."
"The Election Commission of India (ECI) announced the dates for Lok Sabha and some state Assembly elections. Chief Elections Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora said that the elections for the 17th Lok Sabha will be held in seven phases. The elections will start on April 11 and continue till May 19. The counting will be held on May 23. Nearly 90 crore voters will be eligible to vote for 543 Lok Sabha constituencies across the country. With the announcement of dates the moral code of conduct comes 
"
"India is a nation with 29 states. The country has elections that are held annually in different states, after any state government completes its five-year tenure.
In 2016, assembly elections were held in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.
In 2017, assembly elections were held in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur. Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh also had assembly elections in November 2017 and December 2017, respectively. In 2018, assembly polls are being held in Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Rajasthan and Tripura.
The Lok Sabha elections took place in 2014, where the NDA government came into power and Narendra Modi became prime minister.
The next Lok Sabha elections shall take place in 2019, and the NDA, the UPA and other parties have already started preparing for them."
"India's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has made 75 promises, which include the contentious decision to scrap a decades-old law providing special rights to the residents of disputed Kashmir region, according to the party's election manifesto.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi's BJP has consistently advocated ending Kashmir's special constitutional status, which prevents non-residents from buying property in Indian-administered Kashmir, arguing that such laws have hindered its integration with the rest of the country."
"The request, part of a budget offer that focuses on broad spending cuts, sparks new shutdown fears.

By JENNIFER SCHOLTES and CAITLIN EMMA

03/09/2019 08:25 PM EST

Updated 03/10/2019 03:01 PM EDT

President Donald Trump will ask Congress for another $8.6 billion to complete a 722-mile wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, a senior administration official told POLITICO on Sunday, part of a cost-cutting opening budget offer that will dismiss hopes for a grand budget deal and likely stoke fresh fears of another government shutdown.

The president will make the request on Monday in his broader proposal for the upcoming fiscal year, which ends just one month before the 2020 presidential election. The sum — billions of dollars higher than the $5.7 billion border-security demand that sparked the 35-day government shutdown — will surely divide spending negotiators again this year, likely resulting in static funding levels for much of the rest of the government or another lapse.

"
" The longest ever government shutdown drags on, as President Trump continues to demand more than $5 billion for a U.S.-Mexico border wall and Democrats continue to say they won't agree to any new money for it. A number of agencies have been shut since Dec. 22, meaning no employees are being paid and some are not working. Democrats continue to say they won't agree to any new money for the wall, and Trump has said he won't declare a national emergency even after the White House started to lay the groundwork for one.

The effects on Americans who rely on the federal safety net are growing. Here's everything to know about this shutdown. If we missed anything, or if you have a tip, there is a form below for you to ask us a question. While the president claims he’s the dealmaker-in-chief, it was veteran lawmakers who got it done.

By BURGESS EVERETT and HEATHER CAYGLE

02/15/2019 10:11 AM EST

The day before the 35-day government shutdown ended, Chuck Schumer and Mitch McConnell huddled privately to figure out some way everyone could save face and end the biggest congressional crisis in years.

The Senate majority leader first floated providing a pro-rated piece of wall money for President Donald Trump, which Schumer rejected. Then the minority leader tried to isolate the troubled Department of Homeland Security spending bill and fund the rest of the government, which McConnell spurned."
"The Trump administration expects the partial government shutdown to hit gross domestic product growth, but thinks the economy will bounce back quickly after it ends, White House economic advisor Larry Kudlow said Tuesday.

The closure, which started on Dec. 22, is in its 32nd day. About 800,000 federal workers have already lost one paycheck and will miss another Friday amid an impasse over President Donald Trump’s proposed border wall.

The White House now expects the funding lapse to sap 0.1 percentage point from GDP growth every week it lasts, double the administration’s initial estimate of the economic damage. While the effect on fourth-quarter 2018 GDP may prove small, the shutdown could knock a chunk off first-quarter 2019 growth."
"

A government shutdown is when non-essential discretionary federal programs close. It occurs when Congress fails to appropriate funds.

In the normal budget process, Congress appropriates funds by September 30 for the following fiscal year. When that doesn't happen, it enacts a continuing funding resolution. If Congress can't even agree on that, it forces a shutdown. That signals a complete breakdown in the budget process.
Current Status of Shutdown Negotiations

On January 25, 2019, President Donald Trump and Congressional leaders agreed to end the most recent shutdown. Trump signed a bill that funded the government for three weeks while a bipartisan committee negotiated plans for increased border security.

On February 12, 2019, the committee approved a budget package that included $1.375 billion for 55 miles of new border fences. It adds $1.7 billion to Homeland Security's budget for additional border security. On February 14, 2019, the Senate and House passed the measure, avoiding another government shutdown.

"
"Border barrier money

Trump's demand for $5.7 billion for the wall was at the center of the impasse that led to the shutdown. The deal pieced together by Capitol Hill negotiators includes $1.375 billion – far less than that. The agreement would place restrictions on how the money could be spent, specifying that it could pay only for structures that deployed before 2017, such as ""bollard"" fencing. Trump has gone back and forth in his public comments on how he would define a ""wall,"" but the White House has been increasingly open to steel slat barriers.The funding can only be used along the Texas border and cannot be used to pay for a barrier through what Democrats describe as ""sensitive environmental areas,"" such as wildlife refuges and the National Butterfly Center.

Last summer, the Senate Homeland Security Committee advanced a bill that included $1.6 billion ""for approximately 65 miles of pedestrian fencing in the Rio Grande Valley Sector in Texas."" That bill never went anywhere, but after a 35-day shutdown the president is getting less money and miles than the bipartisan bill last year offered.

The White House is also looking for ways to find more money for the barriers, through executive actions – including the possibility of declaring a national emergency. 
New barrier, technology

The president's proposal in January for $5.7 billion in wall funding was intended to pay for 234 miles of ""new physical barrier."" That's a shift from late last year, when the administration indicated that it would use the money to build about 215 miles of barriers, only 100 miles of which would be new. The legislation would fund 55 miles of new barrier in Texas. The U.S.-Mexico border is roughly 2,000 miles. 

In addition to the barrier, the bill includes $725 million for border security technology. It also makes $570 million available to pay for screening at ports of entry. "
"A president can declare a national emergency under the 1976 National Emergencies Act, which was passed in the aftermath of the Watergate crisis in an attempt to limit, not expand, executive power. The act does not define what constitutes a “national emergency.” But it does require the White House to put forward a legal justification for any emergency declaration and requires a congressional review every six months.

Presidents have declared 59 national emergencies since the law went into effect, according to the Brennan Center for Justice.

Separate laws govern various emergency powers that a president might invoke, from deploying troops inside the United States to restricting electronic communications. Trump reportedly wants to activate emergency military construction under a 1980s-era law that explicitly awards the defense department such power in the event of a national emergency declared by the president “that requires use of the armed forces.”"
"The Federal Government is composed of three distinct branches: legislative, executive, and judicial, whose powers are vested by the U.S. Constitution in the Congress, the President, and the Federal courts, respectively.

There are hundreds of Federal agencies and commissions charged with handling such responsibilities as managing America’s space program, protecting its forests, and gathering intelligence. For a full listing of Federal Agencies, Departments, and Commissions, visit USA.govFederal elections occur every two years, on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November. Every member of the House of Representatives and about one-third of the Senate is up for reelection in any given election year. Federal elections are administered by State and local Governments, although the specifics of how elections are conducted differ between the states."
"Most of the key words commonly used to describe governments—words such as monarchy, oligarchy, and democracy —are of Greek or Roman origin. They have been current for more than 2,000 years and have not yet exhausted their usefulness. This suggests that humankind has not altered very much since they were coined; however, such verbal and psychological uniformity must not be allowed to hide the enormous changes in society and politics that have occurred. The earliest analytical use of the term monarchy, for example, occurred in ancient Athens, in the dialogues of Plato (c. 428–c. 348 bce), but even in Plato’s time the term was not self-explanatory. There was a king in Macedonia and a king in Persia, but the two societies, and therefore their institutions, were radically different. To give real meaning to the word monarchy in those two instances, it would be necessary to investigate their actual political and historical contexts. Any general account of monarchy required then, and requires today, an inquiry as to what circumstances have predisposed societies to adopt monarchy and what have led them to reject it. So it is with all political terms.

This article discusses the historical development of governments, primarily in the societies of the West. (See also political science; political system; state.)"
"he Federal Government consists of three types of services, the competitive service, the excepted service, and the Senior Executive Service.
Competitive service

Competitive service positions are positions subject to the civil service laws passed by Congress to ensure that applicants and employees receive fair and equal treatment in the hiring process.

In the competitive service, individuals must go through a competitive hiring process (i.e., competitive examining) before being appointed which is open to all applicants. This process may consist of a written test, an evaluation of the individual’s education and experience, and/or an evaluation of other attributes necessary for successful performance in the position to be filled."
"CNN)Mali's Prime Minister Soumeylou Boubèye Maïga and his entire government have resigned, said the country's secretary general in a statement.
The mass resignation was accepted by President Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta, who offered thanks for ""loyalty"" and ""high sense of duty,"" said the statement released Thursday.
After stepping down, Maïga took to Twitter to express his gratitude to the president for having permitted him and his government to ""serve our country and our citizens"" in a ""crucial time in history.""
The resignations took place in accordance with Article 38 of the Malian Constitution, which states that the president ""shall put an end to the Prime Minister's functions on presentation by the Prime Minister of the resignation of the Cabinet."""
"BAMAKO, Mali — The ethnic violence that has gripped central Mali, resulting in the death of as many as 600 people, has led to the fall of the government.

The office of President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita said late Thursday that he had accepted the resignations of Prime Minister Soumeylou Boubeye Maiga and his entire cabinet.

Mr. Maiga was appointed in December 2017 and reappointed last September, after Mr. Keita was re-elected. But he became a lightning rod for deep anger, expressed by influential Muslim clerics and at mass protests, over massacres in the Mopti region, a mixed ethnic area in the center of the country.

Lawmakers from both the governing and opposition parties submitted a motion of no confidence on Wednesday that held Mr. Maiga and his administration responsible for failing to curb the violence."
"Government to Government Services Online (GSO) is a suite of applications enabling governmental organizations and authorized individuals to conduct business with and submit confidential information to the Social Security Administration. You must be registered to use any service included in the GSO suite of applications. Government to Government Services
Birth and Death Reporting

A mechanism for state and jurisdiction bureaus of vital statistics to submit birth and death information to SSA.
Black Lung Part B and C Reporting

A mechanism for the Department of Labor to submit Black Lung Part B and Part C information to SSA.
Fugitive Felon Reporting

Fugitive Felon reporting provides a mechanism for law enforcement agencies to submit arrest warrant information to SSA. Outstanding felony warrants and parole/probation violation warrants may lead to the suspension of Social Security benefits and SSI payments. "

"

By 2020, as Artificial Intelligence Is More Widely Adopted in Back-Office Systems and Citizen Self-Services, 15% of National Government Workers Will Shift Their Job Roles to More Complex, Idiosyncratic Tasks, Problems, and Interactions.

IDC Government Insights works with Governments throughout the world to digitally transform - to provide better quality services to citizens, while improving the efficiency, effectiveness, and delivery of government programs and services.

Its global team of analysts with decades of industry experience, advise central and local governments how to make the delivery of government services more efficient, effective, and engaged.
"
" wish some one would offer a prize for a good, simple, and intelligent definition of the word “Government.”

What an immense service it would confer on society ! In the midst of this tumult, and now that the country has again and again changed the administration, for not having satisfied all its demands, I wanted to show that they were contradictory. But, what could I have been thinking about? Could I not keep this unfortunate observation to myself!

I have lost my character forever! I am looked upon as a man without heart and without feeling - a dry philosopher, an individualist, a plebeian - in a word, an economist of the practical school. But, pardon me, sublime writers, who stop at nothing, not even at contradictions. I am wrong, without a doubt, and I would willingly retract. I should be glad enough, you may be sure, if you had really discovered a beneficent and inexhaustible being, calling itself the Government, which has bread for all mouths, work for all hands, capital for all enterprises, credit for all projects, oil for all wounds, balm for all sufferings, advice for all perplexities, solutions for all doubts, truths for all intellects, diversions for all who want them, milk for infancy, and wine for old age - which can provide for all our wants, satisfy all our curiosity, correct all our errors, repair all our faults, and exempt us henceforth from the necessity for foresight, prudence, judgment, sagacity, experience, order, economy, temperance, and activity. 

The Government! what is it? where is it? what does it do? what ought it to do? All we know is, that it is a mysterious personage; and, assuredly, it is the most solicited, the most tormented, the most overwhelmed, the most admired, the most accused, the most invoked, and the most provoked of any personage in the world.

I have not the pleasure of knowing my reader but I would stake ten to one that for six months he has been making Utopias, and if so, that he is looking to Government for the realization of them.

And should the reader happen to be a lady: I have no doubt that she is sincerely desirous of seeing all the evils of suffering humanity remedied, and that she thinks this might easily be done, if Government would only undertake it.

But, alas! that poor unfortunate personage, like Figaro, knows not to whom to listen, nor where to turn. The hundred thousand mouths of the press and of the platform cry out all at once —

“Organize labor and workmen.”
“Repress insolence and the tyranny of capital.”
“Make experiments upon manure and eggs.”
“Cover the country with railways.”
“Irrigate the plains.” "
"The Center for Government Excellence (GovEx) at Johns Hopkins University has taken its work on the road, holding a series of pop-up workshops in cities across the country.

GovEx, for those who are unfamiliar, is an organization that basically works to train and support local government in the use of data and analytics. For the most part, GovEx does this from its headquarters at Johns Hopkins University. That has now changed, however, with the advent of the pop-up trainings, which have been held in a wide range of cities, from Scottsdale, Ariz., and Topeka, Kan., to Fort Worth, Texas.

Eric Reese, the director of training and learning at GovEx, said the pop-ups are one- or two-day workshops, for which the core audience is mostly local government, along with those who work closely with local government, including members of nonprofit organizations. The pop-ups have been held in cities where GovEx has relationships via its collaboration with What Works Cities."
"For 2019, the Cities Summit and Government Track have been combined. Topics covered in the Cities, Government & Politics Track include livable cities and the future of urban planning; civic engagement; government’s intersection with tech innovation and data tracking; and privacy/security concerns.

Interested in 2019 programming for Cities, Government & Politics? Take a look at privacy issues, as well as all levels of government policy, in the wake of continued technological disruption with Cities, Government & Politics sessions like The Future of Government Surveillance in the US, Generation Z Is Poised to Revolutionize Politics, Wombats & Wood Ducks: CIA’s Secrets to Creative Problem Solving, and more.

Browse 2019 speakers in the Cities, Government & Politics Track below and explore more programming from the 25 Tracks for the SXSW Conference."
"Artificial intelligence systems can -- if properly used -- help make government more effective and responsive, improving the lives of citizens. Improperly used, however, the dystopian visions of George Orwell’s “1984” become more realistic.

On their own and urged by a new presidential executive order, governments across the U.S., including state and federal agencies, are exploring ways to use AI technologies.As an AI researcher for more than 40 years, who has been a consultant or participant in many government projects, I believe it’s worth noting that sometimes they’ve done it well -- and other times not quite so well. The potential harms and benefits are significant.

An early success

In 2015, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security developed an AI system called “Emma,” a chatbot that can answer questions posed to it in regular English, without needing to know what “her” introductory website calls “government speak” -- all the official terms and acronyms used in agency documents.

By late 2016, DHS reported that Emma was already helping to answer nearly a half-million questions per month, allowing DHS to handle many more inquiries than it had previously, and letting human employees spend more time helping people with more complicated queries that are beyond Emma’s abilities. This sort of conversation-automating artificial intelligence has now been used by other government agencies, in cities and countries around the world."
"The Department of Government is an open, dynamic, and publicly engaged community of scholars, students, and professional staff. We believe in the ideal of scholarship for its own sake but are also deeply committed to the role of cutting-edge research in informing politics and public life

The department has a strong tradition in the major subfields of political science: American politics, political theory, international relations, comparative politics, and political economy. Our Ph.D. program trains new generations of scholars to tackle some of the most pressing conundrums in political and social life. They go on to become academics in the world’s leading colleges and universities as well as to positions of influence in government and global affairs. Our four master’s degrees offer challenging, policy-oriented programs focused on such issues as democracy, conflict, development, and U.S. politics at the federal, state, and local levels. Through jointly appointed faculty and shared programming, the department has strong links to Georgetown’s other major units concerned with politics and policy: the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, the McCourt School of Public Policy, and the Georgetown Law Center."
Federal Government employees can purchase select Apple products and third-party solutions for themselves and their immediate family members at a special price. Note, this program is for personal use only and not intended for purchases using agency funds.State and Local Government employees can purchase select Apple products and third-party solutions for themselves and their immediate family members at a special price. Note, this program is for personal use only and not intended for purchases using agency funds.
"From distributing tax forms to taking passport photos and delivering ballots overseas, the US mail moves government services. USPS is the only delivery service that reaches every mailbox in the nation, including PO Box™ addresses and APO/FPO/DPO addresses.

Passport Services

You can apply for your passport at many Post Offices™ around the country and USPS will forward your application to the State Department. Some locations can even take your passport photo."
Government and Opposition is one of the world's leading global comparative politics journals. This means that we publish papers dealing with any part of the world, and on any theme, to do with comparative politics, liberally defined. We accept papers that cover a single case, so long as they are positioned within the comparative politics literature and seek to advance comparative political analysis. We also publish substantial review articles, many of which are commissioned, and some of which are the result of proposals made to our review editor. We are tied to no substantive position, nor to any methodological orthodoxy beyond the fundamental principle of intellectual rigour. To ensure rigour we practise blind refereeing. We publish four issues a year. 
India is a "Sovereign, Socialist, Secular, Democratic Republic" with a parliamentary system of government. This section seeks to introduce the Constitution of India, its origin, the Parliament, various Acts and Rules that govern the nation, Documents, Public Notifications, Welfare Schemes and Application Forms to avail them, apart from updates on what’s happening around us. Know the "Who's Who" of the Indian Government and check out a range of such vital information that may help you in your daily life.
The president serves as commander-in-chief, can grant pardon or reduce the sentence of a convicted person, and appoints various governors and other positions.Enforces fundamental rights; issues directions, orders, or writs; and may direct the transfer of any civil or criminal case.Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha are the main legislative bodies of government that are responsible for executing the legislative tasks of the government.
"The Articles of Confederation served as the written document that established the functions of the national government of the United States after it declared independence from Great Britain. It established a weak central government that mostly, but not entirely, prevented the individual states from conducting their own foreign diplomacy. The Albany Plan an earlier, pre-independence attempt at joining the colonies into a larger union, had failed in part because the individual colonies were concerned about losing power to another central insitution. As the American Revolution gained momentum, however, many political leaders saw the advantages of a centralized government that could coordinate the Revolutionary War. In June of 1775, the New York provincial Congress sent a plan of union to the Continental Congress, which, like the Albany Plan, continued to recognize the authority of the British Crown.

Some Continental Congress delegates had also informally discussed plans for a more permanent union than the Continental Congress, whose status was temporary. Benjamin Franklin had drawn up a plan for “Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union.” While some delegates, such as Thomas Jefferson, supported Franklin’s proposal, many others were strongly opposed. Franklin introduced his plan before Congress on July 21, but stated that it should be viewed as a draft for when Congress was interested in reaching a more formal proposal. Congress tabled the plan."
"Like anthropologists immersed in ground research, Mazda engineers diligently and doggedly study humans, extending into the fields of cognitive psychology and brain science. They learn our patterns, decode our habits, understand our comforts–all to design better cars–cars with a stronger connection to their human drivers.

The all-new Mazda3 begins with this same human-centric focus, committed to elevating the enjoyment drivers feel when traveling from point A to B. Starting from a deep study of human physiology and movement, the all-new Mazda was designed from the inside out around the driver."
"A spokeswoman for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif, responding to Warren's call, said, “As the speaker has said repeatedly, one step at a time.""

""We’re focused on getting the full unredacted version of the report and its underlying documents — as well as hearing from Mueller,"" the spokeswoman said in a statement. ""The report raises more questions and concerns that we believe the American people deserve answers to.""

Tom Steyer, a billionaire Democratic donor who has led a crusade to impeach Trump, called Warren ""one of the people in Washington who has the moral courage to do what's right.""

""Eight million Americans are thanking her for her leadership and for taking a strong stand against this dangerous President,"" he said in a statement Friday."
"WASHINGTON — The federal government has announced that it will be closing its offices in the Washington, D.C., area at noon Friday as the nation's capital braces for what could be a historic blizzard.

The Office of Personnel Management says offices will be open Friday morning, although non-emergency employees have the option to telework or use unscheduled leave.Those who do come into work are being told they must leave before noon, when all federal offices will be closed.

The National Weather Service says more than 2 feet of snow could land on Washington Friday and Saturday. States of emergency have been declared in five states and the District of Columbia."
"PARIS (AP) — French yellow vest protesters set fires along a march route through Paris on Saturday to drive home their message to a government they see as out of touch with the problems of the poor: that rebuilding the fire-ravaged Notre Dame Cathedral isn’t the only problem France needs to solve.

Like the high-visibility vests the protesters wear, the scattered small fires in Paris appeared to be a collective plea to the government to “look at me — I need help too!”

Police fired water cannon and sprayed tear gas to try to control radical elements on the margins of the largely peaceful march, one of several actions around Paris and other French cities.

The protesters were marking the 23rd straight weekend of yellow vest actions against economic inequality and President Emmanuel Macron’s government, which they see as favoring the wealthy and big business at the expense of ordinary workers. Protesters see themselves as standing up for beleaguered French workers, students and retirees who have been battered by high unemployment, high taxes and shrinking purchasing power."
"Sen. Bernie Sanders is making mainstream Democrats nervous.

But some of the presidential candidate’s supporters say it’s not because they’re worried Sanders can’t defeat President Donald Trump in 2020. It’s because he can, they say.

The Vermont democratic socialist may have surprised the party’s establishment with his strong performance so far. He’s been polling second, behind only former Vice President Joe Biden, who has yet to enter the race. Sanders also took the lead in an Emerson poll released Tuesday. He raised more than $18 million in the first quarter of 2019, the most money of any Democratic contender. And his base of loyal followers, who made him a force in the 2016 primary, has not gone anywhere.

“Bernie right now has a better chance of winning than the rest of field combined,” said Cenk Uygur, founder of progressive news network TYT and host of “The Young Turks,” who supported Sanders in 2016. Uygur has not decided whom he will back in 2020, but says he likes Sanders and Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass.

Uygur said the establishment’s concerns about Sanders raised in a New York Times article on Tuesday, will only make Sanders stronger.

The article quotes"
"Hundreds of thousands of federal employees around the country are returning to work after being furloughed for more than a month. Thousands of others in the federal workforce did work during the 35-day shutdown but didn't get paid.

The Trump administration promises that by Friday federal workers will be paid the two consecutive paychecks that were missed as a result of the government being shuttered.

""Some of them could get paid early this week,"" said acting White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney on CBS's Face the Nation. ""Some of them may be later this week but we hope that by the end of this week all of the back pay will be made up.""

The scramble to get paychecks sent out is a result of the stopgap funding measure President Trump signed on Friday ending the longest U.S. government shutdown in history."
"The longest ever shutdown of the U.S. government is over.

President Trump tonight signed the continuing resolution that provides funding until Feb. 15. 

The bill was signed in private tonight, without reporters present."
"Stuart Varney said a new report about federal employee pay is a sign that government bureaucracy is out of control.

According to the report, titled “Mapping the Swamp” and released by government watchdog group OpenTheBooks, 400,000 federal employees make more than $100,000 a year, 30,000 make more than $190,000 and 78 departments and agencies have an average employee salary of $100,000 or more.

It also revealed that the average federal employee is given considerable paid time-off, including 10 federal holidays, 13 sick days and 20 vacation days per year.

""Granted, many of these highly-paid government workers have professional qualifications. Got it. And they work in very stressful situations. Got that too. But it grates, doesn't it?"" Varney said on Fox Business Network on Wednesday."
"WASHINGTON - President Donald Trump signed a measure late Friday to reopen the federal government for three weeks, ending the longest shutdown in U.S. history even though the bipartisan legislation included no additional money for his proposed border wall.

The bill, which breezed through Congress in a matter of hours by unanimous voice votes, capped a 35-day partial shutdown that exposed the new power dynamic at play in a divided Washington and set off negotiations to avoid a repeat outcome when the money runs out again next month.

“We have reached a deal to end the shutdown and reopen the federal government,"" Trump said during a hastily arranged address in the White House Rose Garden.

Trump's decision to back the deal came amid mounting pressure from members of Congress to end the impasse and in the face of public opinion polls showing that most Americans blamed him and Republicans for the shutdown. Pressure to reopen the government intensified as airports along the East Coast reported delays because of a lack of air traffic controllers."
"The government shutdown is slated to become the longest one in the nation’s history when the clock strikes midnight, but White House officials are expecting a quiet weekend at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.

No meetings between White House officials and congressional staff are scheduled, and no appearances by President Trump are expected. 

The White House’s hope is that once lawmakers are at home this weekend and hear complaints about the shutdown from their constituents, they will be more open to negotiating when they’re back in Washington Monday. 

Remember: Last weekend, senior White House staff traveled to Camp David for meetings with White House Acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney, who has led shutdown talks, and officials pre-taped interviews with television networks so they could get their message out on the Sunday shows. Right now, only Secretary of State Pompeo is appearing on TV Sunday. 
6:31 p.m. ET, January 11, 2019
White House looking at options beyond national emergency

From CNN's Sarah Westwood"
"The March announcement that President Trump would nominate former Federal Labor Relations Authority Chairwoman Dale Cabaniss to be director of the Office of Personnel Management prompted a mixed response from stakeholder groups. Organizations representing federal managers and the Partnership for Public Service expressed support for the choice, while labor unions mostly focused on what her nomination might mean for the administration's plan to dismantle OPM and transfer its functions to other federal agencies.

But the announcement turned heads among those who once worked at the FLRA, the independent agency tasked with handling labor-management disputes. Former officials at the agency were puzzled that the White House would nominate someone to the government's top HR position whose previous executive branch leadership experience was marked by an exodus of employees and ballooning case backlog. Morale at the agency, as measured by governmentwide employee survey data, was the lowest in government by the time Cabaniss left the top job there.

“Needless to say, I was quite surprised to see she had been nominated to lead OPM,” said a former senior official at the agency who spoke to Government Executive and requested anonymity. “There was a deficit of leadership” when she was in charge."
"

What are the political issues that concern you most right now? Political issues today run the gamut from domestic and foreign issues of all kinds. Are they national security or economic? Social issues or legal? What should we be focusing on most in the coming years and election cycles? And are you concerned about something even if it doesn't directly effect you? This political issues list lets you have your voice heard. 

Vote up the topics on this list of political issues that matter to you most, and vote down the ones that you think are irrelevant or that are distractions from what America and US politicians should really be focused on. And if you feel there are any issues not on the list that are important to the future of the United States, feel free to add them. There are more than enough issues for everyone out there to have a spirited debate.

No matter how you feel about these issues, or what side of the debate you're on, as long as you think they are important topics that matter to all Americans, then vote them up!"
"Thanks in large part to 2017’s federal tax overhaul, state income tax collections soared in 2018. But the big unknown for lawmakers and budget directors this year is how much of that revenue bump can be relied on going forward. 

Two forces resulted in unprecedented growth in income tax revenue, which swelled by 69 percent year-over-year in December 2017. The first was high-income earners and small businesses who held off on declaring what income they could from 2016 and 2017 in anticipation of an income tax cut last year. They got it, but it wasn’t as big as expected. The other force was taxpayers in high-tax states rushing to pre-file their 2018 taxes before the $10,000 cap on state and local tax deductions went into effect. 

There’s evidence that some of that initial revenue bump will carry forward, as income tax revenues have continued to outpace expectations. During the first three months of 2018, for instance, income tax collections increased in 38 states, with 23 of them reporting double-digit growth, according to research by the Urban Institute’s Lucy Dadayan.

But whether the revenue bump continues is really up to the states. Thanks to the overhaul, fewer dollars are subject to the state and local tax deduction. That will result in more income taxed at the federal level and higher overall tax bills. In at least 19 states, taxpayers who itemize have deductions that total more than the $10,000 cap. This includes traditionally high-tax blue states such as California, Connecticut, New Jersey and New York and more conservative states such as Nebraska, Ohio and Wisconsin. That will create more pressure than ever on lawmakers to fix the problem, says Rudy Salo, a public finance attorney at Nixon Peabody. “The vast majority of the country,” he says, “is going to feel the pain come April.” 

Last year, Connecticut, New Jersey and New York created workarounds allowing taxpayers to fully deduct their state and local taxes, but the Internal Revenue Service issued regulations aimed at ending those loopholes. 

Still, states have other policy options available. New York, in fact, has already enacted one involving a new payroll tax. But it’s a hard sell because it’s complicated to execute. So far, less than 0.1 percent of the state’s employers have taken it up."
"Nothing big happens in election years. At least, that’s the conventional wisdom on legislative action in many state capitols.

And in a year when 36 states will choose governors and 44 will elect state lawmakers, that feeling is understandable. Political paralysis in Congress is also keeping many states in a holding pattern, as their officials try to judge how best to react to potential changes from Washington.Few developments in Washington will have as direct an effect on state budgeting as the Republican efforts to revise the federal tax code. As of press time, lawmakers were still working to reconcile the House and Senate tax plans. But the Republicans’ priorities are clear.

One of the main GOP goals is to simplify tax returns for most Americans. This would be done in part by increasing the amount of the standard deduction while eliminating certain itemized deductions. The idea is to give taxpayers an incentive to use the uncomplicated standard deduction rather than undertaking the often thorny process of itemizing deductions.

But in the 43 states with their own income tax, the idea has more sobering implications. A dozen states automatically use the same standard deduction as the federal government. They risk losing out on revenue because residents will have less taxable income. Meanwhile, 31 states and the District of Columbia use the federal list of itemized deductions. Congress is considering eliminating a few of those, such as the student loan interest paid and medical expenses. States that stay linked to federal itemized deductions could see revenues increase. This all means that lawmakers in each state will have to determine how their revenue will react to tax reform and whether or not to stay linked to federal tax definitions.

But many state issues are simply too important or too timely to wait. Here are a few that will likely draw a lot of attention this year."
" The 2016 presidential election has largely been defined so far by personal attacks and horse race polling. But significant policy differences exist between the candidates, especially Republicans and Democrats. And while those differences will be hashed out on the campaign trail over the next 11 months, some topics are destined to help define the nation's next election. Elections are usually categorized into one of two compartments: the economy or foreign policy.For instance, the 2004 election, just three years after 9/11, was undoubtedly a foreign policy election. In 2008, the election was economic focused as the recession had just begun.

In 2016, it's still unclear if this will be a foreign policy or economic election. Millions of Americans feel left behind as wages have stagnated and the middle class shrinks. But the rise of ISIS and the recent terrorist attacks in the west have revived fears about terrorism. 

Here are some of the issues to watch in 2016.  Elections are usually categorized into one of two compartments: the economy or foreign policy.For instance, the 2004 election, just three years after 9/11, was undoubtedly a foreign policy election. In 2008, the election was economic focused as the recession had just begun.

In 2016, it's still unclear if this will be a foreign policy or economic election. Millions of Americans feel left behind as wages have stagnated and the middle class shrinks. But the rise of ISIS and the recent terrorist attacks in the west have revived fears about terrorism. "
"THE LATEST MUELLER FALLOUT … DONALD VS. DON -- “Giuliani Attacks McGahn’s Account to Mueller,” by NYT’s Mike Schmidt and Maggie Haberman: “President Trump’s lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, attacked the credibility of a former White House counsel on Friday, saying his account of how Mr. Trump told him to remove the special counsel was inaccurate. Mr. Giuliani’s statement was the most extensive pushback by the president’s lawyers against the former counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, who cooperated extensively with the special counsel’s investigators. The report detailing the findings of the investigation, released on Thursday, also included several damning examples of how Mr. Trump tried to interfere with the investigation, like Mr. McGahn’s account.

“‘It can’t be taken at face value,’ Mr. Giuliani said in an interview. ‘It could be the product of an inaccurate recollection or could be the product of something else.’ Mr. McGahn’s lawyer, William A. Burck, pushed back on Mr. Giuliani’s attack. ‘It’s a mystery why Rudy Giuliani feels the need to relitigate incidents the attorney general and deputy attorney general have concluded were not obstruction,’ Mr. Burck said. ‘But they are accurately described in the report."
"Toward the end of the 2017 legislative session, Wisconsin ended its nearly 20-year moratorium on nonferrous metallic mining in the state. In doing so, the Legislature recognized a shared responsibility between state and local governments in the regulation of mining. Mining presents unique land use regulatory issues and it is important for local government policy makers and administrators to understand what regulatory tools are at their disposal and how those tools may be used when it come to considering, approving and monitoring a nonferrous metallic mine. The presenters in this session will provide an overview of the regulatory tools and provide perspective on how various towns and counties have chosen to proceed.
Presented by Carol Nawrocki, Attorney, Wisconsin Towns Association; and Andy Philips, Attorney, von Briesen & Roper, S.C.
This teleconference has already taken place. To purchase a recorded version,"
Venezuela, home to the world’s largest oil reserves, is a case study in the perils of petrostatehood. Since its discovery in the 1920s, oil has taken Venezuela on an exhilarating but dangerous boom-and-bust ride that offers lessons for other resource-rich states. Decades of poor governance have driven what was once one of Latin America’s most prosperous countries to economic and political ruin. If Venezuela is able to emerge from its tailspin, experts say that the government must establish mechanisms that will encourage a productive investment of the country’s vast oil revenues.
The federal government works in partnership with the states to address mental health. The federal role in mental health includes regulating systems and providers, protecting the rights of consumers, providing funding for services, and supporting research and innovation. As a major funding source for mental health services, the federal government establishes and enforces minimum standards that states can then expand upon.
"A majority of voters in both political parties support making cannabis legal for adults and 70% of Americans oppose the enforcement of federal marijuana laws in states with legal cannabis. With such clear public support for the cannabis policies already succeeding in state-after-state, it’s long past time for Congress to take action by enacting sensible federal marijuana policies.

In January 2018, Attorney General Jeff Sessions rescinded the Obama-era “Cole Memo,” guidelines which directed the directing the Department of Justice DOJ to de-prioritize enforcement of federal marijuana laws in states with well-regulated cannabis programs. This move sparked outcry from policymakers and state regulators across the nation and further stresses the urgent need for Congressional action."
"On September 5, 2017, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that the government was terminating the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program. That same day, then–Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine Duke issued a memorandum directing the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to reject all initial DACA applications and associated applications for work authorization received after Sep. 5, 2017; to reject all renewal applications after Oct. 5, 2017, from current DACA recipients whose status expired between Sep. 5, 2017, and March 5, 2018; and to reject all other renewal applications from DACA recipients.[1]

In the days and months following, multiple lawsuits challenging the Trump administration’s actions to terminate DACA were filed across the country. Two U.S. district courts have since enjoined, or halted, the government’s termination of DACA and required U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to continue accepting DACA applications from individuals who have previously had DACA. A third U.S. district court has ordered the government to follow its original 2012 policy of not sharing DACA recipients’ private information for enforcement purposes, and a fourth U.S. district court (in the District of Columbia) has twice issued orders striking down the termination of DACA and reinstating the original program. However, the court in DC partially “stayed” its order that vacated the Trump administration’s termination of the DACA program.[2] This stay postpones the effective date of portions of the court’s order that would require USCIS to accept DACA applications regardless of whether the applicants previously had DACA."
"The state legislative services office offers an array of options for residents from across the state to follow all of the committee meetings and discussions on the floors of the House and Senate.

Click here for a list of all legislators’ emails, which is their preferred method of contact.

During the session you can contact a legislator to leave a message by calling the Senate receptionist at 307-777-7711 or the House receptionist at 307-777-7852.

To check on committee schedules, view bills, listen to live broadcasts of the legislative session or find out how individual legislators vote, log on to the Legislative website at http://legisweb.state.wy.us"
"I’ve heard from countless people who say that as taxpayers, they have come to regard government as unresponsive, inefficient, and lacking transparency. While I fundamentally believe in government’s ability to help confront America’s most pressing social and economic challenges, I know that we need to do much more to improve public trust and connect members of Congress with their constituents. 

During my time at the Department of Commerce, I insisted on adopting the latest technology to increase program efficiency and introduced a metrics based approach to measure the rate of return for taxpayers. When I first arrived at Commerce, it was shocking that staffing decisions were made often for political rather than practical reasons. While this is just one example, there are plenty of others like this that illustrate just how inefficient and opaque the federal government has become. 

To remove the “black box” and restore faith in our government institutions, it’s going to take a concerted effort from both parties. For starters, we must employ modern practices that produce measurable results – and we need to post these findings in a timely fashion and in an accessible format. This means taking a Silicon Valley approach to governing – leveraging innovative technology wherever possible. This will help us save taxpayer dollars in a time of severe budget constraints – and it will also increase transparency.

"
Thailand’s National Council for Peace and Order (NCPO) junta failed in 2017 to keep its repeated promises made at the United Nations and elsewhere to respect human rights and restore democratic rule. The government announced the national human rights agenda in November, but did not end repression of civil and political liberties, imprisonment of dissidents, and impunity for torture and other abuses.
"Artificial intelligence systems can – if properly used – help make government more effective and responsive, improving the lives of citizens. Improperly used, however, the dystopian visions of George Orwell’s “1984” become more realistic.

On their own and urged by a new presidential executive order, governments across the U.S., including state and federal agencies, are exploring ways to use AI technologies.

As an AI researcher for more than 40 years, who has been a consultant or participant in many government projects, I believe it’s worth noting that sometimes they’ve done it well – and other times not quite so well. The potential harms and benefits are significant."
The US government, with assistance from major telecommunications carriers including AT&T, has engaged in massive, illegal dragnet surveillance of the domestic communications and communications records of millions of ordinary Americans since at least 2001. Since this was first reported on by the press and discovered by the public in late 2005, EFF has been at the forefront of the effort to stop it and bring government surveillance programs back within the law and the Constitution.
"Congress today missed a historic opportunity to reform an unconstitutional surveillance law, instead passing a version that makes it worse. Both Democrats and Republicans deserve sharp criticism for continuing to allow the NSA to engage in mass, warrantless spying.

(You can see how your member of Congress voted here and here, so they can be held accountable.)

The vote concerned Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act — a law disclosed by Edward Snowden that revealed the NSA had been spying on Americans in unprecedented ways. As a result of the expiration of this law, Congress needed to decide, for the first time since those revelations, whether to reform, reauthorize, or do away with the law altogether."
"For tech companies, there was a confounding juxtaposition in the news this week.

On Monday, the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Communications Commission announced a joint effort to assure that businesses are safeguarding their customers’ data. The FCC sent a letter to mobile carriers, citing “a growing number of vulnerabilities … that threaten the security and integrity of a user’s device and all the personal, sensitive data on it,” and asking how carriers address those vulnerabilities.

The FTC simultaneously ordered eight manufacturers of mobile devices to respond to a detailed set of questions about how they update the devices’ security protections and keep customers informed of those updates.
"
"WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Bill Gates said on Monday that no one was an “absolutist” on either side of the digital privacy debate, but the co-founder of Microsoft Corp <MSFT.O> said he supports his company’s lawsuit against the U.S. government seeking the freedom to tell customers when federal agencies have sought their data.The move comes as rival Apple Inc <AAPL.O> is locked in a showdown with the U.S. government over access to an iPhone belonging to one of the killers in the December shooting in San Bernardino, California.

Gates said more collaboration between law enforcement and privacy advocates would help determine which “legislative framework ... strikes the perfect balance” on government access to private data.

“There probably are some cases where (the government) should be able to go in covertly and get information about a company’s email,” Gates said at a Reuters Newsmaker event in Washington.

“But the position Microsoft is taking in this suit is that it should be extraordinary and it shouldn’t be a matter of course that there is a gag order automatically put in,” he said in an interview with Reuters Editor-in-Chief Stephen Adler.

The lawsuit, filed last week in federal court in Microsoft’s home town of Seattle, argues that the government is violating the U.S. Constitution by preventing Microsoft from notifying thousands of customers about government requests for their emails and other documents, sometimes indefinitely."
"How much does the US government know about you? It’s not a question easily answered. The US government operates the largest and most advanced spying, surveillance, and data collection programs on the planet. It’s made up of multiple law enforcement and intelligence agencies, some of which operate in secret. The federal government, of course, consists more than two dozen major agencies that perform regular record keeping for operational purposes, such as the Internal Revenue Service, Department of Housing and Urban Development, and Social Security Administration.

Aside from official government entities, third parties often comply with government requests for information. These include big tech companies like Google, Apple, Microsoft, and Facebook, all of which were shown by Edward Snowden to have cooperated with the NSA’s spying efforts. And while we’re thinking about Edward Snowden, recall that he was a private contractor at the NSA at the time and not a government employee. Contractors and private companies can collect information on behalf of the US government as well.

The amount and accuracy of information that the government varies from one person to the next. Someone who spends a lot of time online, sharing on social media, creating accounts at different services, and/or communicating with friends and relatives overseas will leave a much more clear trail of data than someone who shuns Facebook and takes proactive steps to protect their privacy. Government employees must undergo rigorous background checks, while someone getting paid under the table at a local restaurant can fly under the radar.

Attempting to cover all the information that the US government knows about any one person quickly becomes overwhelming and full of caveats. With all of this in mind, it’s clear we need to narrow down our parameters. To that end, we’ll create three typical archetypes–Alice, Bob, and Chris–who fit the following profiles:"
"Last week the Guardian newspaper reported that the National Security Administration (NSA) has been secretly tracking the phone records of millions of Americans using data supplied by Verizon.

The administration defended the surveillance program, saying that it is lawful and is a “critical tool” to protect national security.

But civil liberties advocates say the program goes too far.

“I was astounded, first of all, to learn for the first time that the government thinks the law allows this, and even more astounded to learn that they were doing it,” Kate Martin of the Center for National Security Studies said on the NewsHour.

The person who leaked the information on the surveillance programs revealed himself as Edward Snowden, a 29-year-old employee of defense contractor Booz Allen Hamilton, who had once been assigned to work with the NSA. He says he felt compelled to speak out about what he calls wrongdoing.

“The more you talk about it, the more you are ignored, the more you’re told it’s not a problem,” he said in a video statement to The Guardian newspaper. “Until eventually you realize that these things need to be determined by the public, not by somebody who was simply hired by the government.”
Government sifts through Facebook and Google

Meanwhile, the Washington Post revealed that the NSA and FBI have two other spying programs that target American citizens, including one that uses the data of Facebook, Google and Apple, and one that uses information from major credit card companies.

Audio, video, photographs, e-mails, documents and connection logs “enable analysts to track a person’s movements and contacts over time,” the article explains. “They quite literally can watch your ideas form as you type,” an unnamed career intelligence officer told the Post."
"Brian Hochman assumes this conversation is being recorded. It’s a professional hazard for the Georgetown associate professor of English and American studies. For the last several years, Hochman has been studying electronic surveillance—both the technological developments that have made eavesdropping possible and the cultural and political realities that have made it a part of American life for more than 150 years. “Americans have come to terms with the inconvenient truth that there is no such thing as electronic communication without electronic eavesdropping,” says Hochman, a 2017-2018 National Endowment for the Humanities Public Scholar, who is currently writing a book on the subject. With wiretapping in the headlines and “smart” speakers in millions of homes, we asked Hochman to take us back the early days of eavesdropping and to consider the future of “dataveillance.”


It starts long before the telephone. The earliest statute prohibiting wiretapping was written in California in 1862, just after the Pacific Telegraph Company reached the West Coast, and the first person convicted was a stock broker named D.C. Williams in 1864. His scheme was ingenious: He listened in on corporate telegraph lines and sold the information he overheard to stock traders.

Read more: https://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/brief-history-surveillance-america-180968399/#mUpY8phfqyJY8YJF.99
Give the gift of Smithsonian magazine for only $12! http://bit.ly/1cGUiGv
Follow us: @SmithsonianMag on Twitter"
"Five years ago this month, news organizations broke stories about federal government surveillance of phone calls and electronic communications of U.S. and foreign citizens, based on classified documents leaked by then-National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden. The initial stories and subsequent coverage sparked a global debate about surveillance practices, data privacy and leaks.

Here are some key findings about Americans’ views of government information-gathering and surveillance, drawn from Pew Research Center surveys since the NSA revelations:

1Americans were divided about the impact of the leaks immediately following Snowden’s disclosures, but a majority said the government should prosecute the leaker. About half of Americans (49%) said the release of the classified information served the public interest, while 44% said it harmed the public interest, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted days after the revelations. While adults younger than 30 were more likely than older Americans to say the leaks served the public interest (60%), there was no partisan divide in these views.

At the same time, 54% of the public said the government should pursue a criminal case against the person responsible for the leaks, a view more commonly held among Republicans and Democrats (59% each) than independents (48%). Snowden was charged with espionage in June 2013. He then fled the U.S. and continues to live in Russia under temporary asylum. "
"Let’s define the Surveillance State as a state that aims at preventive, everyday, mass surveillance.

Many people don’t mind the Surveillance State. Some like to be surveilled because it shows that somebody is paying attention to them. Others think that no information about them can be incriminating. Mark Reid, the city manager of Bluffdale, Utah, where a large NSA (National Security Agency) data center was being built, did not worry: “If someone reads my emails,” he said, “they’ll be pretty bored.” James Watson, winner of a Nobel Prize for his work on the structure of DNA, argued that compulsory DNA fingerprinting would only “take away our liberty to commit crime.”

Last week’s issue of The Economist describes one incarnation of the Surveillance State. It happens in China and, more particularly, in Xinjiang province, home of the Uighurs, an ethnic minority that also has the drawbacks of being Muslim and not especially enlightened. The indignity to which the Chinese state submits them are not more enlightened. The Uighurs can be tightly controlled because they are closely surveilled: ID cards tied to massive databases, constant video-surveillance and checkpoints, house-to-house inspections, a “convenience police station” for every square territory of 500 inhabitants (in the town of Hotan), government agents “adopted” by families, etc. This surveillance allows the authorities to rank individuals by degree of “trustworthiness,” and to send to reeducation camps those deemed unreliable."
"The federal government could soon pay more in interest on its debt than it spends on the military, Medicaid or children’s programs.

The run-up in borrowing costs is a one-two punch brought on by the need to finance a fast-growing budget deficit, worsened by tax cuts and steadily rising interest rates that will make the debt more expensive.

With less money coming in and more going toward interest, political leaders will find it harder to address pressing needs like fixing crumbling roads and bridges or to make emergency moves like pulling the economy out of future recessions.

Within a decade, more than $900 billion in interest payments will be due annually, easily outpacing spending on myriad other programs. Already the fastest-growing major government expense, the cost of interest is on track to hit $390 billion next year, nearly 50 percent more than in 2017, according to the Congressional Budget Office."
"The disruption caused by reports of drones flying over Gatwick airport in December 2018 was a magnificent illustration of the uselessness of the UK’s big-ticket defence spending. The United Kingdom is not short of high-end military kit. Apart from its nuclear deterrent (which may or may not be in working order), the nation’s £37 billion annual defence spending has allowed it to build, buy and maintain a formidable array of weapons systems. Britain’s new aircraft carrier provides a platform for F-35 fighter planes and, according to the UK defence secretary, the power “to strike decisively from the seas anywhere in the world”.

Yet, despite all this firepower, the country’s second busiest airport (a strategic asset if there ever was one) was immobilised for more than 24 hours, leaving tens of thousands of people stranded. In time a military grade jamming system was deployed, but by that stage the stable door was flapping in the wind and the horses had bolted.

The Gatwick example raises the question: what is the point of the UK’s defence spending and posture? The question is timely as the UK government is currently undertaking a strategic defence and security review in order to update its 2015 national security strategy. The chaos and keystone cops incident at Gatwick leads us to ask: who or what is being secured?

"
"WASHINGTON – The national debt is $21 trillion and counting.

The federal deficit soared last year to $779 billion and is projected to approach $1 trillion in 2019.

For most Americans, it’s difficult to comprehend a dollar figure that has that many digits. ($1 trillion, when written out in long form, is $1,000,000,000,000. Yes, that’s 12 zeroes.) The numbers are so huge that they almost seem surreal.

But the impact of the rising national debt and federal deficit is very real, even for average Americans, financial experts warn.

So here’s what you should know about the debt and the deficit – and why you should care.
Deficit and debt: What’s the difference?

The terms deficit and debt often appear in the same government reports that spell out the country’s financial woes. But they’re not the same.

Put simply, the deficit refers to the difference between what the federal government spends and the revenue it takes in annually. The debt is the amount of money the federal government must borrow to cover years of budget deficits.

Both are on the rise.

The deficit hit $779 billion in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 because tax revenues are not keeping pace with government spending, the Treasury Department announced Monday. That’s a 17 percent increase over the previous year – the highest deficit in six years."
"hat 90% of Silicon Valley start-ups fail is often mentioned in these columns, and it’s in many ways the theme of my upcoming book, They’re Both Wrong. Investor and writer Andy Kessler alerted me to the number, and it’s one that anyone aiming to understand economics should internalize.

The 90% number is a reminder that bad ideas in Silicon Valley quickly fail. The Valley’s immense wealth isn’t an effect of constant success; rather it’s a certain consequence of persistent failure that forces constant learning and improvement. What makes no sense dies with great rapidity in northern California, so that good ideas can be born.The truth about Silicon Valley’s economics is an inconvenient one for members of the right convinced that the center of technological innovation is a hive of socialists. Please. The latter is a myth that the overly sensitive have chosen to focus on in order to promote their alarmist narrative about the U.S. going the way of Venezuela, or Greece, or Zimbabwe.

Just the same, the Valley’s relentlessly capitalist ways similarly mock members of the left who defend government spending as compassionate. No, it’s waste. Plain and simple. All wealth is initially created in the private sector, and government spending is the wasteful consequence. We know it’s wasteful because we know that bad ideas in government almost never die. What’s mindless persists. "
"In the second quarter of this year, investment spending by the federal government dropped below 1.4 percent of gross domestic product for the first time since the 1940s, according to the latest data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. OK, at 1.397 percent, it wasn’t much below, and federal government investment as a share of GDP isn’t exactly a closely watched economic indicator. But the decline through the decades is still pretty striking: The federal government isn’t the only investor in town, of course. Since 1994, state and local governments have been investing more than Washington has. Include them, and the decline in overall government investment is less precipitous, and it has actually rebounded a teeny-weeny bit since last year, although it’s still lower as a share of GDP than at any point between 1948 and 2017.
Government Investment Isn't What It Used to Be

Gross federal investment as a percentage of gross domestic productThe federal government isn’t the only investor in town, of course. Since 1994, state and local governments have been investing more than Washington has. Include them, and the decline in overall government investment is less precipitous, and it has actually rebounded a teeny-weeny bit since last year, although it’s still lower as a share of GDP than at any point between 1948 and 2017."
"Finance Minister Olaf Scholz has set aside more than 150 billion euros ($170 billion) for infrastructure, education, housing and digital technology over the next four years. The push on infrastructure is helping construction, which grew at an annual pace of more than 3 percent in the second half of 2018.

At the same time, changes to social-security contributions and taxation are putting more money in consumers’ pockets, which should help domestic demand. Unemployment figures on Friday showed another drop in the number of jobless.“Slowly but surely, Germany is delivering the boost to government spending that observers have asked for many years,” said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank.

The argument for less frugality has been espoused by everyone from U.S. President Donald Trump to Nobel laureate Paul Krugman, and with German growth cooling, calls from outside Germany for more have grown louder recently. “There is basically no downside” to more spending, according to Brad Setser, a senior fellow for international economics at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York."
"South Korea’s economy gained some speed in the fourth quarter as increased spending by the government helped offset slowing exports.

Gross domestic product expanded 1.0 percent from the previous quarter, versus economists’ median estimate of 0.6 percent. From a year earlier, the economy expanded 3.1 percent, compared with an estimate of 2.7 percent.""The government made a good effort to boost growth in the last quarter, but I don’t think this can last for long,"" said Joo Won, an economist at Hyundai Research Institute. ""Conditions will probably worsen this year because of weakening exports and that will lead to a slowdown in investment in the end, especially semiconductors."""
" This paper evaluates the impact of government spending on economic performance. It discusses the theoretical arguments, reviews the international evidence, highlights the latest academic research, cites examples of countries that have significantly reduced government spending as a share of national economic output, and analyzes the economic consequences of those reforms.
Key Takeaways

Most government spending has a negative economic impact.

The deficit is not the critical variable. The key is the size of government, not how it is financed.

There is overwhelming evidence that government spending is too high and that America's economy could grow much faster if the burden of government was reduced.
"
"Within two years of President Trump taking office as the nation’s first “very stable genius,” external opposition and internal dissension have led to a string of funding lapses and threats of shutdowns if policy demands are not met. Even as rhetoric of compromise spills from the mouths of newly-elected officials, our leaders have allowed political differences to distract them from their purpose: to create legislation that’s beneficial to the masses.

The game of politics is often marred by false promises and catchy jargon. While I admit that I am mildly entertained by the backbiting during campaign season, I still believe that political leaders can assuage the political divide in Washington. As I recall the 2013 government shutdown, a daunting memory that still creates palpitations in the hearts of many government workers, my faith in politics is razed. I remember the anxiety I felt as I awaited news on budget negotiations and feeling my hope dashed as another day without a resolution passed by."
"In its federal budget, Canada’s Liberal government announced plans to create a Canadian Drug Agency to reduce the costs of drugs for Canadians and to expand a program to create 40,000 work placements for students within five years, among other initiatives.

But the documented litany of failures by governments of all levels, far and wide, to effectively implement policy and build programs and infrastructure doesn’t always provide much hope for the future.

Are governments bound to chronically fail, go over-budget or botch the big projects necessary to make major policy changes and introduce new systems or infrastructure to the public? There’s a mountain of research suggesting government projects routinely fail in Canada, the United States and Great Britain.

But now let’s look at a list of key success factors gleaned from the research into failure."
"The United States spends more on health care than any other country in the world, and a large share of that spending comes from the federal government.

In 2017, the United States spent about $3.5 trillion, or 18 percent of GDP, on health expenditures – more than twice the average among developed countries.

Of that $3.5 trillion, $1.5 trillion, is directly or indirectly financed by the federal government. In other words, the federal government dedicates resources of nearly 8 percent of the economy toward health care. By 2028, we estimate these costs will rise to $2.9 trillion, or 9.7 percent of the economy. Over time, these costs will continue to grow and consume an increasing share of federal resources."
"Puerto Rico’s federal oversight board on Thursday approved a sweeping fiscal recovery plan calling for steep cuts in government spending and pensions over the strong objections of the U.S. territory’s government.

The congressionally created panel approved the plan in a 6-1 vote. Several board members expressed concern that Puerto Rico's government would undermine the plan, prolonging the commonwealth's more than decadelong recession.The board also unanimously certified new plans for the debt-laden power and water utilities, which were hard hit by last year’s storms. Thursday’s meeting in San Juan took place only a day after an island-wide blackout, which came amid the longest electrical repair project in U.S. history. The plan sets the stage for privatization of the power utility.The plan, which also includes a controversial provision making it easier for companies to fire employees, is designed to help Puerto Rico get out from under more than $70 billion in debt and emerge from its crippling recession, exacerbated by last year’s devastating hurricanes. It projects a surplus of $6.7 billion over the next six years if the recommendations are carried out.

Gov. Ricardo Rosselló is vehemently opposed to the recommendations and has backed a resolution in Puerto Rico’s Senate that would cut off the board’s funding. That move would run afoul of the U.S. Congress, which directed the commonwealth to fund the board as part of a debt relief package for the U.S. territory it approved in 2016.

It’s likely the governor and legislature will raise the stakes by refusing to enact reforms it mandates and fighting the fiscal plan in court.

Rosselló, who is counting on $50 billion in U.S. emergency aid to revive the economy, took to Twitter to criticize the board while it met.

"
"That’s when the federal debt ceiling, as written into federal law, will be breached. There won’t be an immediate crisis, because the US Treasury Department can take “extraordinary measures” to delay a default on US debts. But the clock will start ticking. Those measures will probably be exhausted by the late summer or early fall, so Congress will need to act by then.

The fall is also, serendipitously, the time that Congress needs to reach a deal to avert automatic spending cuts. The budget caps from the 2011 budget deal are still in place for two more years, something Democrats and Republicans hate. The caps require across-the-board cuts on domestic and military funding, known as sequestration, if federal spending exceeds them. Congress has reached deals every two years since 2013 to lift the caps. The next deadline for a deal to prevent big spending cuts is October 1.

Aides from both parties think that convergence means it’s likely the next debt ceiling increase will end up being paired with a deal to lift those federal spending caps. Nobody wants a debt default, nobody wants automatic spending cuts, so it makes sense to tackle both of those issues in one package.

But just because Democrats and Republicans agree on the goals doesn’t mean it will be easy to find a compromise. They’re going to have to figure out exactly how much to boost both defense and non-defense spending — and there could be an even pricklier fight about whether those increases should be offset by tax increases or spending cuts elsewhere.

The negotiations are just getting started, with the shutdown crisis and immigration talks finally behind us. But the contours of the next big spending fight in Congress are already clear."
The macroeconomic and health policy changes in India have generated some hopes, fear and complexity in public health spending. Health policies turned ineffective even to meet the required level of resources for providing basic health facilities. Fund allocation towards rural area (with missing health facility), preventive services, medicines and equipments was recorded to be noticeably low and inadequate with a declining trend. After the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM, 2005), public funds in health somewhat increased but remained lower than ambitious commitment of 2–3 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP). Central fund transfer to state, which was (before NRHM) passing through state budget, now bypasses the state budget. This has resulted in discontinuation of some of the health programmes/schemes running in the states and also made the centre–state finance relation more complex. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, conditional central fund allocation criteria, inadequate absorptive capacity and priority of state are further slowing down the effective policy implementation and progress in health outcomes.
"Researchers in Brazil are up in arms after President Jair Bolsonaro’s government announced late last month that it had frozen 42% of the budget for the country's science and communications ministry (MCTIC).

The decision is especially painful because the science ministry was already struggling with a budget that was among its lowest in 14 years. Brazil’s congress approved 5.1 billion reais (US$1.45 billion) for the MCTIC in 2019; the freeze, announced on 29 March, leaves the ministry with just 2.9 billion reais for the rest of this year.

Unless government officials release some of the frozen funds, agencies within the MCTIC, such as the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq) ― Brazil’s main research funding agency ― could run out of cash as early as July. The government tried to slash the MCTIC's budget by 44% in 2017, but it restored some of the money later that year.

The freeze will cripple Brazil’s scientific and technological development if the government does not reverse it, said the Brazilian Science Academy and five other scientific societies in a statement on 1 April. “It will take many decades to rebuild the country’s science and innovation capacity.” "
"As the global economy weakens and markets grow more volatile, it is hard to imagine a worse time to stop 25% of US federal spending for over a month. The government shutdown has already cut into the pocketbooks of hundreds of thousands of government employees and contractors who rely on a federal paycheck. While the markets have been largely ignoring it so far, the absence of so much government activity is gathering force. It’s hard to believe it won’t damage the economy.

Previous experience shows that the price of long shutdowns is always high. There have been 18 budget stalemates since 1974 that forced at least partial government closures (under presidents Ford, Carter, Reagan, Bush Sr, Clinton and Obama). The 16-day day shutdown in 2013 cost the federal government $2.5 billion in lost productivity, slowed GDP growth, and lowered consumer and investor confidence, according to the Congressional Research Service.

Regardless of who is declared the political “winner” of the current shutdown, this protracted episode will produce economic damage. Aside from the well-publicized direct costs, there are at least five hidden costs a shutdown of this magnitude.

First, the loss of government spending has multiplier effects that ripple across the economy. Every $1 of reduced federal spending can lower GDP by between $0.40 and $1.90, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
"
"

Congress just passed a bipartisan bill to fund much of the government to a tune of $854 billion. I voted for it in order to avert a partial government shutdown and because the bill funds American taxpayers' priorities--most importantly, a pay raise for troops and money to rebuild our armed forces.

But despite securing these priorities, people across the political spectrum say this process of having single up-or-down votes on packages of spending bills ""stinks.""

As legislators, we hold the purse strings under Article I of the U.S. Constitution. In fact, approving funding and providing federal government oversight are among our most fundamental constitutional duties; however, the budget process is so broken it forces us into an annual government funding showdown where both parties leverage impending crises to score political points.

This budget mess is becoming too toxic, and Congress needs to start cleaning it up.

To fix the process itself, we must update the outdated Congressional Budget and Impoundment Act of 1974 (also known as the Budget Act), which is the framework we work within to exercise our Article I power of the purse. There are few incentives in the current process for the government to run on a timely, realistic budget that puts the American people first.
"
"In a few weeks, members of Congress will face voters who ought to be in a better mood. The economy is growing twice as fast as it did under the previous administration. Tax and regulatory reform are bringing capital back into the economy. Still, taxpayers feel uncertain and nervous.
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) have confirmed that Russian hackers targeted all 50 states during the 2016 elections – not just the 21 states previously reported. This new information highlights the urgent need to replace South Carolina’s old, vulnerable digital touchscreen “DRE” voting machines. As a cyber operations expert with nearly forty years of national security experience, I feel the need to speak up: It’s critical to deter and mitigate these threats before the 2020 elections. South Carolina is moving in the right direction. The legislature has appropriated $40 million for a new voting system and, to ensure a smooth procurement process, given responsibility for procuring the system to the S.C. Department of Administration (SCDOA). As the department examines the available systems, it should carefully consider the efficiency, cost, and security of each system. It should also avoid the mistakes made in Georgia, where the legislature fast-tracked a bill requiring a $150 million voting system comprised of ballot-marking devices (BMDs) without considering a more secure, lower-cost system of hand-marked paper ballots. BMDs, which require voters to select their preferred candidates using a touchscreen, may be more high-tech than paper ballots but are by no means higher quality. BMDs contain vulnerable computer systems that can be hacked to change ballots after they are cast. Although BMDs print a paper record of votes cast, they often do so in barcode format, making it impossible for voters to ensure that their vote will ultimately be recorded accurately. And like any machine, BMDs are susceptible to technical glitches and power outages, increasing chances that voters will be forced to wait in long lines on election day.
"Egyptians were being asked Saturday to vote on constitutional amendments that would allow President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi to stay in power until 2030.

The three-day voting period for the nationwide referendum starts at 9 a.m. (0700 GMT) Saturday on proposed changes that would also further enshrine the military's role in politics.

Parliament, packed with el-Sissi supporters, overwhelmingly approved the amendments on Tuesday.

The proposed changes are seen by critics as another step back toward authoritarianism. The referendum comes eight years after a pro-democracy uprising ended autocrat Hosni Mubarak's three-decade rule, and nearly six years after el-Sissi led a popular military overthrow of the country's first freely elected but divisive Islamist president, Mohammed Morsi.

The vote comes as authorities waged an unprecedented crackdown on dissent in recent years, arresting thousands of people — mostly Islamists but also prominent secular activists — and rolling back freedoms won in 2011.

Two international rights groups, Human Rights Watch and the International Commission of Jurists, on Saturday urged the Egyptian government to withdraw the amendments."
"Most voters in metro Atlanta have nothing on the ballot until the fall. 2019 is an off-year election, falling between the governor’s race balloting in 2018 and the upcoming presidential election in 2020. Most of the voting in metro Atlanta this year will involve city government elections. Many metro cities will hold elections for mayor and city council on Tuesday, Nov. 5, 2019.

Latest AJC election results

Runoff elections will be held on Tuesday, April 16 in:

Atlanta: Electing one city council member, Council District 3. The seat was left vacant by the death of Councilman Ivory lee Young Jr.

Cherokee County: A special election for County Commission District 3.

The next elections for president will be in 2020, starting with Georgia’s presidential primary, usually scheduled early in the year. The next elections for the Georgia Legislature and U.S. Congress and Senate are also in 2020.The next elections for Georgia governor and other state constitutional offices will be in 2022. Gov. Brian Kemp was elected in 2018."
"Democrats have been living in a fantasy world since the clock struck midnight after November 8, 2016. Rather than accept reality and the results of historic victory of Donald Trump over Hillary Clinton in the last presidential election, Democrats have clutched to conspiracy theories.

The first fantasy was that the 2016 election was tainted by “fake news.” When that backfired, because after all it was the mainstream media that had to apologize for its biased coverage of the race, the narrative had to change. Democrats then settled on another conspiracy theory, hand woven by the Clinton campaign and deeply entrenched within the Obama administration Justice Department that was led by collusion truthers"
"The release of the special counsel report on Russian interference in the 2016 election marks the end of political shadow-boxing over a secret investigation of President Trump and the beginning of open warfare over whether he should be reelected in 2020.

The long-awaited report from Robert S. Mueller III will almost certainly inflame partisan passions on both sides, even if it changes few voters’ minds about Trump. And it will pose new challenges to Democratic presidential candidates, who have mostly steered clear of the Russia investigation to develop distinctive brands that stand for more than opposing the president.
"

One reason could be Congress’ failure to curtail spending. Polls taken before President Trump took office showed the public perceived that government wasted about half the money it collected. Congress and the administration can do a lot more to get our fiscal house in order."
"Editor's Note: Lawmakers reached a temporary agreement with the president to reopen the government on Friday.

In our Principles of Microeconomics courses, we sometimes consider whether a firm should shut down some line of production. A firm shuts down when it ceases operations—when it closes down and stops its production. The firm stops spending money on everything except its fixed costs.In order to have some baseline for comparison, consider the budget for Fiscal Year (FY) 2018. The Treasury Department reports on all of the dollars withdrawn from federal accounts. In one sense, this is all federal spending. In FY 2018, withdrawals from federal accounts totaled $13,961.9 billion. That works out to a daily average of $38.3 billion.

A federal government “shutdown” has a completely different meaning.
The Definition of a Government Shutdown

There has been much handwringing over the current government shutdown that began on December 22 of last year. The Treasury Department, with its Daily Treasury Statements, has provided us with details regarding federal spending through January 18. So we have the data on the first four weeks of the shutdown. Let’s try to determine the definition of a government shutdown.

"
"Government Spending

Spending by federal, state, and local governments accounts for about twenty percent of the GDP. Actually, spending is the easy part - politicians love to shop - it's paying for it that gets messy. This diagram shows how it flows; it's mainly self-explanatory (except for the pies-in-the-sky, which is a subtle metaphor). Click on a hot zone for an explanation.

 

 

So there it is: government spending can be a short-term stimulus, deficits can cause a long-term drag... and the ""pies"" are tempting but menacing.

"
"

U.S. construction spending rose 1% in February, following an upwardly revised 2.5% surge in January, the Commerce Department said in a report today.

The value of all construction put in place during February increased to a seasonally adjusted $1.32 trillion, the highest level since May 2018, the report said. Homebuilding rose 0.7% to $540.9 billion, while government spending jumped 3.8% to $303 billion.

“The numbers are clearly better than expected, and they included fantastic upward revisions to January,” said Christopher Low, chief economist with FTN Financial in New York.

The boost in residential construction spending along with falling mortgage rates signal the next few months may be a strong period for home sales, he said.

“For builders to come back like this, they must be optimistic for a reason,” Low said. “After coming out of a period of weakness at the end of last year, they must sense stronger demand.”

State and local government construction spending rose 3.8% after soaring 5.7% in January. Federal construction projects rose 0.9% to the highest level since October 2017. Spending on private nonresidential buildings, such as power plants, fell 0.5% in February after gaining 1.1% in January."
"SEC. 1.  The total annual appropriations subject to limitation of
the State and of each local government shall not exceed the
appropriations limit of the entity of government for the prior year
adjusted for the change in the cost of living and the change in
population, except as otherwise provided in this article.



CALIFORNIA CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE 13B  GOVERNMENT SPENDING LIMITATION


SEC. 1.5.  The annual calculation of the appropriations limit under
this article for each entity of local government shall be reviewed as
part of an annual financial audit.



CALIFORNIA CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE 13B  GOVERNMENT SPENDING LIMITATION
"
"Resurrect the “Byrd Committee.” 
One good idea for spending restraint is to restore a committee that once existed, the Joint Committee on Reduction of Nonessential Federal Expenditures (known in the post-War years as the “Byrd Committee”).  First proposed in 1941, the committee was a bipartisan, joint committee with subpoena powers that focused only on making rescissions in federal spending. Its proposals enacted over $38 billion (in 2010 dollars) in savings. The fatal flaw in many other “fiscal commissions” is this lack of narrow focus – only when tax hikes are taken off the table are meaningful spending cuts made. Any recommendations from a committee modeled on the Byrd Committee should be privileged and require an up-or-down vote on the floor. To give an idea of the sort of spending that this committee might curb, the federal government made at least $98 billion in improper payments in 2009, Medicare spends $47 billion (12.4 percent of its budget) annually improperly or fraudulently, and Congress recently spent $2.4 billion on 10 new jets that the Pentagon claims it does not need and will not use. With regards to duplicate programs, the Government Accountability Office reports hundreds of wastefully duplicated programs in areas as wide ranging as economic development, serving the disabled, helping at-risk youth, early childhood development, funding international education, and providing safe water. Indeed, according to the Bush administration OMB's PART program reviews, 22 percent of all federal programs, costing a total of $123 billion per year, fail to show any positive impact on their target populations."
"

The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) has excellent data on military spending by nation. According to SIPRI research, the five biggest spenders in 2017 were the United States, China, Saudi Arabia, Russia and India. Together, these countries made up 60% of global military spending. USA military expenditure did not change in 2017, at $610 billion. China increased its military spending by 5.6%, Saudi Arabia by 9.2% and India by 5.5%. As with any government spending, these dollars have an impact. 
The Why of Military Spending

Military spending is one area where there is no private solution to replace the public purse. No single corporation or group of citizens is sufficiently motivated (or trustworthy) enough to take financial responsibility for the cost of having a military. Adam Smith, one of the fathers of free market economics, identified the defense of society as one of the primary functions of government and justification for reasonable taxation. Basically, the government is acting on behalf of the public to ensure that the military is sufficiently well resourced to defend the nation. In practice, however, defending the nation expands to defending a nation’s strategic interests, and the whole concept of “sufficient” is up for debate as other nations also bulk up their militaries. (For related reading, see: What Is the Broken Window Fallacy?)
"
"Opponents of federal waste and questionable spending policies have seized on President Donald Trump's latest executive branch expense cuts as a good first step to bringing fiscal restraint to Washington.

Trump last year signed an executive order to cut federal government waste and encourage executive-level agencies to provide services more efficiently and at reduced costs. And in October, Trump called on Cabinet secretaries to outline ways to make 5 percent budget cuts as the federal deficit continued to edge upward.

A recent opinion article in The Hill by government transparency advocates Adam Andrzejewski and former U.S. Sen. Tom Coburn called on Trump and Congress to make questionable federal spending a key issue facing the nation."
"In January, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its Budget and Economic Outlook for 2019 to 2029. It is horrific reading. Federal budget deficits are projected to rise from $779 billion annually to $1.37 trillion over the next ten years. Federal government debt will rise to 93 percent of GDP by 2029, “its highest level since just after World War II.” It is forecast to be “about 150 percent of GDP in 2049—far higher than it has ever been.”

On top of this, politicians have been announcing grand schemes for further spending: $47 billion on free college tuition; $1 trillion for new infrastructure; $1.4 trillion to write off student loan debt; at least $7 trillion on a “Green New Deal”; $32 trillion on “Medicare for All.” By one estimate, these new proposals total an estimated $42.5 trillion over the next decade.

Adding these new spending proposals to the flood of red ink the CBO projects just from following the current path, the federal government is set to face a serious fiscal crisis in the not too distant future.
"
"

The founding fathers of the United States wanted to create a nation where the federal government was limited in its authority to dictate one's inalienable rights, and many argued this extended to the right to the pursuit of happiness in the context of starting one's own business.

Initially, the government did not meddle in the affairs of businesses, but the consolidation of the industry after the Industrial Revolution resulted in a monopoly of markets by increasingly powerful corporations, so the government stepped in to protect small businesses and consumers from corporate greed.

Since then, and especially in the wake of the Great Depression and President Franklin D. Roosevelt's ""New Deal"" with businesses, the federal government has enacted more than 100 regulations to control the economy and prevent monopolization of certain markets.
Early Involvement of Government

Near the end of the 20th century, the rapid consolidation of power in the economy to a few select corporations spurred the United States government to step in and begin regulating the free trade market, starting with the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, which restored competition and free enterprise by breaking up corporate control of niche markets.
"
"Government intervention in the e-cigarette industry on both sides of the Atlantic Since their launch back in 2004, e-cigarettes have grown enormously in popularity, across the globe. The growth of vaping, across all age groups and social demographics, is nothing short of phenomenal, and companies from small startups to multi-billion dollar corporates are clamouring to get a slice of the e-cigarette market. Since both the US and the UK operate more or less free market economies, it comes as no surprise that the e-cig market has developed so successfully over the last 13 years. More recently, though, legislation on both sides of the Atlantic has shown just how far each country is willing to go with free market principles, before wading into the debate.

The basic principle behind a free market economy is that supply and demand dictates how an economy grows. Champions of this system assert that it creates competitive markets, gives consumers influence and generates a free and unconstrained political and economic environment. On the other side of the argument, critics argue that consumers need to be protected, as most businesses are motivated by profits and not consumer safety and wellbeing. It seems that vaping has given the governments of both the US and the UK much to think about, in terms of what legislation this nascent industry requires."
Should the government intervene in the economy?One of the main issues in economics is the extent to which the government should intervene in the economy. Free market economists argue that government intervention should be strictly limited as government intervention tends to cause an inefficient allocation of resources. However, others argue there is a strong case for government intervention in different fields, such as externalities, public goods and monopoly power.
"Governments can sometimes intervene in markets to promote other goals, such as national unity and advancement. Most people agree that governments should provide a military for the protection of its citizens, and this can be seen as a type of intervention. Growing a large and impressive military not only increases a country’s security, but may also be a source of pride. Intervening in a way that promotes national unity and pride can be an extremely valuable goal for government officials.
Price Ceilings

A price ceiling is a price control that limits how high a price can be charged for a good or service."
"Ministers should establish a new energy commission to spur on construction of power stations because successive governments have failed to encourage enough fresh power capacity in the UK, according to a House of Lords report.

Subsidy-backed growth in renewable energy projects, such as windfarms, has deterred the construction of new conventional power plants, the economic affairs committee claimed.The report has sparked an angry response. Robert Gross, director of the centre for energy policy and technology at Imperial College, London, said: “The term ‘post truth’ has become over-used. Yet it would be possible to take all the evidence the committee presents and tell a completely different story: there’s been huge success in growing renewables and reducing emissions from the power sector.”

Lord Hollick, the committee’s chair, said: “We are critical of the drift that’s taken place over the last 15 years or so, which has delivered on the decarbonisation agenda but very much at the expense of consumers paying 58% more than they were in 2003. On the affordability front we haven’t looked after consumers.” 

The peers envisage the new energy commission would oversee auctions where all technologies, including fossil fuel power plants, competed for guaranteed electricity prices. The auctions would cap carbon emissions.

At present the government only allows low-carbon power, such as windfarms and new nuclear power stations, to compete in auctions for such deals, known as contracts for difference.

The influential cross-party group of peers concluded that successive governments have got their priorities wrong on energy policy by giving priority to carbon emissions cuts – a statutory duty under the Climate Change Act – over keeping costs down and keeping the lights on."
"It may be hard to remember, but Americans once appreciated the government that serves them. That’s long gone.

Over the last six years, according to the Pew Research Center, four out of every five — or more — have said the government makes them feel either angry or frustrated. Last March, the ranks of the incensed included 78 percent of Bernie Sanders’s supporters and a whopping 98 percent of those backing Donald J. Trump.

More than half of voters — including 61 percent of Mr. Trump’s supporters — feel they are not keeping up with the rising cost of living. Three-quarters of Mr. Trump’s supporters feel that life for people like them is worse than it was 50 years ago.

Some of this is caused by irreversible forces. The days when white men kept an uncontested hold on political power, when young adults without a college degree could easily find a well-paid job, are not coming back.Yet it’s not as if nothing can be done. These frustrated Americans may not fully realize it, under the influence of decades worth of sermons about government’s ultimate incompetence and venality. But there’s a strong case for more government — not less — as the most promising way to improve the nation’s standard of living.

"
4 Consequences of Government Intervention in China's Markets On 2016's first day of trading, the CSI 300, an index of China’s biggest stocks, fell abruptly by 7%, triggering the use of newly established circuit breakers designed to temporarily halt trading until calm was restored. The Chinese markets continued to fall another 5% when the markets reopened 15 minutes later, triggering another circuit breaker and a complete suspension of trading for the day. The global markets responded with steep declines of their own, resulting in the worst first-week decline in the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) in decades. Analysts were quick to attribute the contagion to fears of a crashing Chinese economy, but later examination suggests that the quick intervention by the Chinese government actually exacerbated the panic by creating more uncertainty. The market has been the target of unrelenting intervention by the Chinese government for several years, which seems to make and change rules without regard for their consequences.
"
4 Government-to-Company Interventions: Did They Work? 
During the BP (NYSE:BP) Deepwater Horizon oil spill on April 20, the American government deployed 17,500 National Guard troops to respond to the environmental crisis. Over 484 miles of shoreline were impacted, and 81,181 square miles of Gulf of Mexico waters were closed to fishing. When the government steps in, things get done, but many are left wondering just how much the government should intervene–and if it even works.
Cleveland's Railroad Dilemma

Workers at Chicago's Pullman Palace Car Company walked out one spring day in 1894 in protest of smaller wages. The American Railway Union supported the workers and announced that, after negotiations failed, no trains that had Pullman cars would be operated. President Grover Cleveland became involved in the dispute when routes beyond Chicago were disrupted.

He deployed military soldiers to force the protesters to return to work, claiming that because the U.S. mail service had been disrupted, he had the constitutional right to do so. More than 30 people died in the violence between those on strike and the military, garnering sympathy from the public for the labor activists.
"
"LONDON (Reuters) - Constant government intervention in Britain’s energy sector has led to a complex system of subsidies and an uncompetitive market that fails to deliver low-cost and secure electricity, a report by an upper-house parliamentary committee said on Friday. Successive governments have taken measures since the early 2000s to encourage lower-carbon electricity generation, such as the closure of coal plants and subsidies for renewables and new nuclear plants, the Economic Affairs Committee report said.

Power generated from fossil fuels is still cheaper than from renewables, the report said, and the average domestic electricity bill has risen 58 percent since 2003.

The government is under pressure to act on rising energy costs after three of Britain’s biggest energy suppliers announced price rises over the last few months. "
This paper examines the problems of establishing a basis for intervention and the effectiveness of measures taken. The discussion is in terms of the Australian experience with the exception of public investment outlays where British experience is drawn upon. The initial sections deal with how public intervention might be supported; the confusions and pitfalls are examined. The policymakers’ role in choosing between possible measures is discussed and then illustrated by means of specific examples. This part is intended to bring out the complexities of policy choices and the uncertainty of the basis for making decisions. The final part indicates some further difficulties for determining policy preferences in view of recent discussions of individual rights. At least the themes spelt out in gaining an understanding of ‘rights’ issues help to explain the handicaps to reconciling the theoretical basis for much intervention with the results.
"Economists argue so much about everything that people are always asking them “Is there anything you folks agree on?” The usual stock response is “free trade.” But when Stanford economics professor Jon Levin took the question on Quora, he gave a very different answer:

This might seem like a dry, scholarly response, but for those of us who watch the econ profession, it is eye-opening. This is the first time I’ve seen a professor at a top school cite government intervention in the economy as the main example of agreement in the field.
"
"What is laissez faire economics?

    In a free market system, governments take the view that markets are best suited to allocating scarce resources and allow the market forces of supply and demand to set prices.
    The role of the government is to protect property rights, uphold the rule of law and maintain the value of the currency.
    Competitive markets often deliver improvements in allocative, productive and dynamic efficiency
    But there are occasions when they fail – providing a case for intervention.

What are the main reasons for government intervention in markets?

The main reasons for policy intervention by the government are:

    To correct for market failures
    To achieve a more equitable distribution of income and wealth
    To improve the performance of the economy"
"

We are unapologetic defenders of the economic way of thinking, not merely because it helps us understand why—as economist Joseph Schumpeter explained—capitalism allows factory girls to buy more and better stockings for progressively decreasing amounts of effort, but because with good economic analysis, some of the great atrocities of human history could have been avoided. For example, the Progressive eugenics movement of the early twentieth century was offensively anti-economic, even though some who were called “economists” encouraged it.1 As Bryan Caplan has pointed out, the Holocaust found some of its roots in Malthusianism, the idea that population growth would outstrip the growth of agricultural output.2 The disasters of central planning in the USSR, China, and elsewhere speak for themselves. We don’t exaggerate when we say that sound economic reasoning could have saved tens, if not hundreds, of millions of lives.

But economic knowledge incompletely applied can be dangerous. In introductory economics classes, students learn about several types of “market failure,” which occurs when some attributes of the market prevent it from producing an efficient outcome. In the context of twentieth-century neoclassical economics, these represent failures of the actual market to reach the equilibrium of the perfectly competitive model. In this framework, market failures are possible when there are externalities (uncompensated costs or benefits that spill over onto people who are not party to a trade); public goods (goods that are non-rival in consumption and for which it is prohibitively costly to exclude non-payers); asymmetric information; and market power like monopoly (when there is one seller of a good or service), monopsony (when there is one buyer of a good or service), or natural monopoly (when the cost structure of the industry makes it more efficient for a single firm to produce the entire market’s output)."
"Governments played an important role in creating capitalism
Other blog posts in Free exchange's economic history series have included the economic consequences of the Black Death, the importance of institutions and what Adam Smith really meant. In the festive spirit, we ask our readers to suggest the economic-history topic that we should write about next. Please add your suggestions in the comments and we will choose the most popular. 

MANY people think that governments play only a negative role in relation to the economy: enforcing irritating regulations, taxing individuals, spending inefficiently. Economies do better when the government gets out the way. "


































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































