AdvertisementSupported byletterA Williams College professor recalls the thinking of President Theodore Roosevelt.To the Editor:Re “Soak! The! Rich!” (Sunday Business, Feb. 10):With “40 percent of the world’s wealth ... controlled by 1 percent of the people,” as the economist Joseph E. Stiglitz points out, some Democrats want to “soak the rich.” They are not alone. President Theodore Roosevelt, a Republican, repeatedly advocated tax policies that would create more equality — for moral and nationalistic reasons, not merely to raise revenue.In his yearly message in 1907, Roosevelt proposed a steeply graduated inheritance tax, explaining that “no advantage comes either to the country as a whole or to the individuals inheriting the money by permitting the transmission in their entirety of the enormous fortunes.” Moreover, “such a tax would help to preserve a measurable equality of opportunity for the people of the generations growing to manhood.”President Trump and his fellow Republicans might be interested to know that T.R. added, “We have not the slightest sympathy” with the “socialistic idea.”Susan DunnWilliamstown, Mass.The writer, a professor at Williams College, is co-author with James MacGregor Burns of “The Three Roosevelts: Patrician Leaders Who Transformed America.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byToday’s G.O.P. is burying Reagan’s legacy faster than Elizabeth Warren ever could.By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistAnd Abraham said, “Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak yet but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for ten’s sake.”In the Senate this week, the Lord found twelve.Alas, it was 12 of 53. Less than a quarter of the G.O.P. caucus was prepared to block a national-emergency declaration most of them know violates the separation of powers, tramples on their legislative prerogatives, makes a mockery of long-held conservative principles, and establishes a political precedent they will come to regret bitterly and soon.Nor will it solve the border problem it’s ostensibly intended to address, much less build anything except a small section of Donald Trump’s fantasy wall. Thomas More’s great line to Richard Rich from “A Man For All Seasons” may be shopworn, but it’s apt: “It profits a man nothing to give his soul for the whole world . . . but for Wales?” In this week’s drama there’s more than one perjurious Rich. But special mentions must be made of Nebraska’s Ben Sasse and North Carolina’s Thom Tillis. Both of them previously opposed the emergency declaration. Both are up for renomination and re-election next year. And both found ways to vote something other than their consciences.In mid-February, Sasse issued a statement in which he warned, “If we get used to presidents just declaring an emergency any time they can’t get what they want from Congress, it will be almost impossible to go back to a Constitutional system of checks and balances.”As for the Tillis, he too has his principles — or had them. “As a U.S. senator, I cannot justify providing the executive with more ways to bypass Congress,” he wrote in a Washington Post op-ed. “As a conservative, I cannot endorse a precedent that I know future left-wing presidents will exploit to advance radical policies that will erode economic and individual freedoms.”“These are the reasons,” Tillis grandly concluded, “I would vote in favor of the resolution disapproving of the president’s national-emergency declaration, if and when it comes before the Senate.”That op-ed was published on Feb. 25. On Wednesday, the day before the Senate vote, The Hill reported that Mark Walker, a Baptist preacher and Trump loyalist, was mulling a primary challenge against Tillis. “North Carolina Republican primary voters have made their voices clear,” Walker told The Hill. “They stand with the president. Our senators should as well.”It’s remarkable how quickly principles become liquid when a Senate seat is at stake. Remarkable, also, how completely the G.O.P. is now defined by self-abasement.Trump suggests Ted Cruz’s wife is ugly. The senator from Texas bends the knee. Trump reads out Lindsey Graham’s cell number at a campaign event. The senator from South Carolina bends the knee. Jeff Sessions? Paul Ryan? Formerly anti-Trump pundits? The entire conservative movement now looks like an immense prostration ceremony. Only it’s in the service of something the novices know at some level is dangerous and unholy.The larger question is what this means for Republicans in 2020, and the conservative movement beyond that.Tillis and Sasse (along with Colorado’s Cory Gardner), may have spared themselves nomination fights with their vote. But voters can always smell a sellout. Mark Walker should challenge Tillis on the view that North Carolina deserves a man in Congress who is faithful to bad ideas, rather than one who is faithless to good ones. Ditto for Nebraskans, who shouldn’t have to endure Sasse’s high-flown pedantry about the appropriate reach of the 1976 National Emergencies Act before he cravenly bows to political expediency.As for conservatives, this episode is another reminder of the Faustian bargain of Trumpism, in which victories in policy and personnel appointments are gained at the cost of surrenders of principle. As with all such bargains, the victories are partial and temporal, the surrenders total and irrevocable.Now the majority of Republicans in the Senate have surrendered to the idea that a president can spend taxpayer money from a partisan whim in express defiance of Congress. It’s one more capitulation to Trumpism in a list that now includes the abandoned beliefs that international alliances make us safer, free trade makes us richer, immigration makes us stronger, a free press makes us freer, human rights make us better, and tyrants should be confronted, not coddled. The Republican Party is burying the legacy of Ronald Reagan in ways Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders could only dream of.It would be nice to look on the bright side and celebrate the 12 Republicans willing to defy the president, and much of their base, to keep faith with the Constitution. But of those 12 only one, Susan Collins, faces re-election; for the rest, from Mitt Romney to Marco Rubio, it was an easier vote.There aren’t 12 good men in this foul city.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byA louche administration takes aim at reproductive rights.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistIn “The Handmaid’s Tale,” Margaret Atwood’s ever-resonant tale of misogynist dystopia, Christian fascism has a sordid, perverse underbelly. On the surface, the Republic of Gilead, Atwood’s imaginary successor to America, is a place of totalitarian religious austerity. But as the book’s enslaved narrator discovers, the society’s leaders also maintain a brothel, Jezebel’s, full of women who couldn’t fit into the new order. It’s the inevitable flip side of a regime that dehumanizes women, reducing them to their reproductive organs. “Nature demands variety, for men,” says a character called the Commander.Donald Trump’s administration turns the Gilead model upside down. Its public image is louche and decadent, with tabloid scandal swirling around the president and many of his associates. This can make it hard to focus on the unprecedented lengths the administration is going to curtail American women’s reproductive rights and enrich the anti-abortion movement.On Friday, the Trump administration escalated its war on Planned Parenthood and the women who use it. It released a rule prohibiting Title X, a federal family-planning program that serves around four million low-income women, from funding organizations that also provide abortions. Further, the administration instituted an American version of the global gag rule, barring doctors and nurses receiving Title X funds from making abortion referrals to their patients except in certain emergency situations.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]The rule is meant to cut Planned Parenthood, which serves 41 percent of Title X recipients, out of the program. But for many women who rely on Title X, there are no alternatives. Planned Parenthood’s president, Dr. Leana Wen, told me that in Wisconsin, as of 2017, Planned Parenthood served 80 percent of Title X patients and was the only Title X provider in seven counties. In Ohio, Planned Parenthood was the only Title X provider in nine counties. “We know that when patients cannot access their provider of choice, they delay care,” or they end up forgoing care altogether, she said.The administration appears to think that religious anti-abortion groups, including those opposed to contraception, will fill some of the gaps. The new regulation jettisons a requirement that Title X clinics provide “medically approved” family planning services. That means that funds that once went to Planned Parenthood could flow instead to anti-abortion groups that promote so-called natural family planning. Unless the courts halt the new policy, struggling women who need refills on their birth control pills could get federally funded lectures on the rhythm method instead.This move to turn a lifesaving women’s health program into pork for the religious right should be major news. Instead, it’s been overshadowed by a series of scandals, each offering telling glimpses of the sexual ethics of Trumpworld’s golf-shirted Commanders.On Thursday, a federal judge ruled that prosecutors working under former Miami U.S. attorney Alex Acosta, now Trump’s secretary of labor, broke the law in the process of making an inexplicably lenient plea deal with the financier Jeffrey Epstein, who’d been accused of sexually abusing underage girls. (Trump once counted Epstein as a friend, saying of him: “He’s a lot of fun to be with. It is even said that he likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the younger side.”) Acosta would have already been forced out of any normal administration, but so far he seems secure in this one.Then, on Friday, news broke that the billionaire Robert Kraft, owner of the New England Patriots and a close friend of and donor to Trump, was being charged with soliciting prostitution, part of a wide-ranging Florida sex-trafficking investigation. One of the 100 richest men in the country, Kraft was allegedly a patron of a strip-mall massage parlor staffed by women who, according to police, were virtual prisoners, forced to service up to 1,000 men a year. It’s hard to imagine why a man with Kraft’s resources would visit such a place unless the squalor, and the women’s evident powerlessness, were part of the point. (Kraft has denied the allegations; the police reportedly have video evidence.)On Monday there was another minor sex scandal involving Trump himself, when Alva Johnson, a former Trump campaign staffer in Florida, sued the president and his campaign, claiming, among other things, that he’d given her an unwanted kiss while she was at work. To Trump, the suit says, “Ms. Johnson was nothing more than a sexual object he felt entitled to dominate and humiliate.” The Trump camp denies Johnson’s charges, but the behavior she described is in keeping with Trump’s self-description on the “Access Hollywood” tape: “It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait.” More than 22 women have accused Trump of sexual misconduct.Now Trump, payer of hush money to a pornographic film actress, employer of Bill Shine, a man forced out of Fox News for his role in abetting sexual harassment, is putting himself between over a million poor women and their doctors. It’s ugly, but I’m not sure it’s hypocritical. Ultimately, the patriarchs of the fictional Gilead and the dreadfully real Mar-a-Lago share an ethos: harsh restrictions for powerless women, unbounded license for powerful men.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThey’ve gone beyond cynicism to pathology.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistOf all the political issues that divide us, health care is the one with the greatest impact on ordinary Americans’ lives. If Democrats hadn’t managed to pass the Affordable Care Act, around 20 million fewer Americans would have health insurance than currently do. If Republican-controlled states hadn’t refused to expand Medicaid and generally done as little as possible to support the act, national progress might have tracked progress in, say, California – so another 7 or 8 million people might have coverage.You obviously know where I stand on this political divide. But I’m starting to believe that I misjudged Republican motives.You see, I thought their behavior was cynical and strategic: They opposed Obamacare because they thought there was political mileage in scaring people about change, and also in denying Obama any successes. Oh, and their donors really hated the taxes on the rich that pay for the ACA’s subsidies. And right up through 2016 they could hope to convince voters that they had a secret plan for something much better than Obamacare.Indeed, all of these things surely played a role in GOP health care strategy. But at this point they’ve clearly lost the political argument. In 2017, Republican attempts to repeal Obamacare made it clear to everyone that their party didn’t have any better ideas, and never did; everything they proposed would have devastated the lives of millions.Then health care became the top issue in the 2018 midterms, and voters who considered it the most important issue went Democratic by a three to one margin.So you might have expected Republicans to cut their losses. Maybe Trump could have done what he did with NAFTA: keep Obamacare basically intact, but make a few minor changes, give it a new name – the Yuge Maga Care Awesomeness, or something – and claim that it was totally different and better.But no. Most Republican-controlled states are still refusing to expand Medicaid, even though Washington would bear the vast majority of the costs. Utah held a direct referendum on Medicaid expansion, which passed easily – so the will of the voters was clear, even in a very conservative state. Yet GOP legislators are blocking the expansion anyway.And now the Trump administration, having failed to repeal the ACA when Republicans controlled Congress, is suing to have the whole thing declared unconstitutional in court – because what could be a better way to start off the 2020 campaign than taking insurance away from 20 million Americans?As an aside, this latest Trump move completes his utter betrayal of the people who put him in office. Consider a place like West Virginia, where a lot of people gained health insurance thanks to Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion. The state went overwhelmingly for Trump anyway, because he promised not to cut health care, and also promised to bring back those good jobs in coal. So I made a little chart to show what he’s actually offering West Virginians:The point is that it’s no longer possible to see any of this as part of a clever political strategy, even a nefariously cynical one. It has entered the realm of pathology instead. It’s now clear that Republicans just have a deep, unreasoning hatred of the idea that government policy may help some people get health care.Why? The truth is that I don’t fully get it. Maybe it’s anger at the thought of anyone getting something they didn’t earn themselves, unless it’s an inheritance from daddy. Maybe it’s a sense that a lot of gratuitous suffering is or should be part of the human condition, or God’s plan, or something. I try to understand how others think, but in this case I really do find it hard.Whatever the reason, however, the fact is that whatever they may claim, today’s Republicans hate the idea of poor and working-class Americans getting the health care they need.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe absurdity of denying Trump’s bigotry.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistIt’s hard to say what’s a bigger taboo in American politics: being a racist, or calling someone one.Sure, the Republican Party will occasionally try to distance itself from one of its more egregiously hateful members, like Representative Steve King of Iowa, who lost committee assignments after seeming to defend white nationalism. But mostly, right-wing politicians and their media allies pretend, to the point of farce, that the primary racial injustice in America involves white people unfairly accused of racism. This makes talking openly about the evident racism of our president harder than it should be.To see how this works in microcosm, consider the House Oversight Committee hearing at which Donald Trump’s former consigliere Michael Cohen testified on Wednesday. Cohen said, in his opening statement, that, in addition to being a con man and a cheat, Trump is a racist. This should be clear to all people of good faith, given that Trump was a leading figure in the birther movement, defended white supremacist marchers in Charlottesville, and claimed he couldn’t get a fair hearing from a judge of Mexican heritage, to mention just a few examples.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]But Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina, strenuously objected to Cohen’s description, and came up with what he seemed to think was an airtight rejoinder. Meadows, who is white, had Lynne Patton, an African-American woman and longtime Trump employee now at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, stand behind him, and quoted her saying that she would not work for a racist. Checkmate!In the past, one person who would often publicly vouch for Trump’s non-racism was Omarosa Manigault Newman, the “Apprentice”-star-turned-White House aide. Then Manigault Newman came out with a book calling Trump “a racist, a bigot and a misogynist.” As part of her promotional tour for that book, she released an audio recording of a conversation she had with Patton and another African-American Trump supporter, Katrina Pierson, strategizing about how to handle the fallout should a tape surface of Trump using a racist slur. On the recording Patton, the person Meadows called upon as a character witness for the president, didn’t seem doubtful that Trump could have said such a thing.Many liberals were agog at this stunt by Meadows; on the left it's largely accepted that responding to charges of racism by pointing to black friends — never mind black employees — is clueless at best. Some white conservatives, however, seem convinced that you can’t be racist if you have an affectionate relationship with a person of color. And so when Representative Rashida Tlaib, Democrat of Michigan, called out Meadows toward the end of the hearing, he was so aggrieved he nearly melted down.The “fact that someone would actually use a prop, a black woman, in this chamber, in this committee, is alone racist in itself,” said Tlaib, who is Palestinian-American. Red-faced, indignant and seemingly on the verge of tears, Meadows demanded that Tlaib’s words be stricken from the record, turned the charge of racism back on her, and said that he has nieces and nephews who are people of color. In a stunning dramatization of how racial dynamics determine whose emotions are honored, the hearing momentarily came to a halt so that Tlaib could assure Meadows that she didn’t mean to call him a racist, and the committee chairman, Elijah Cummings, who is African-American, could comfort him. “I could see and feel your pain,” Cummings told him.So Meadows emerged as the victim. There was, however, another twist. It turns out that in 2012, Meadows said some very racist things about Barack Obama, promising, on at least two occasions, to send the American president “home to Kenya or wherever it is.” As recordings of these comments ricocheted through the news, Meadows didn’t quite apologize, but he did tell reporters that his words were “not the way that I should’ve answered the questions.” (In only one instance did he appear to be responding to a question.) “I can tell you that anyone who knows me knows that there is not a racial bone in my body,” he added.I don’t know Meadows, or what a “racial bone” is, but I suspect he may not be the best arbiter of what constitutes bigotry. Then again, when it comes to Trump, no arbiter is really needed. Why, after all, was Meadows’s rediscovered birtherism so newsworthy, automatically understood as pertinent to a debate about his racism, or lack thereof? Because there’s a mainstream assumption that it is racist to say that Obama secretly hails from Africa. This should, but somehow doesn’t, translate into a mainstream assumption that Trump, who rode birther conspiracies to political prominence, is an unrepentant racist. He should be shunned as Steve King is shunned, but he can’t be shunned because he is the president.This contradiction is behind some of the madness of our public life right now. Normalizing Trump, which has become a central mission of the Republican Party, depends on denial about what racism is. Not for the first time, Tlaib got in trouble for pointing out the obvious — the president is a bigot, and that in bringing out Patton to exonerate him, Meadows only demonstrated his own gross insensitivity.On Thursday, Tlaib and Meadows reportedly had a warm conversation on the House floor; according to a CNN reporter, they hugged. I’m glad; given how much she’s been demonized in her short time in Congress, it’s probably in her interest to make Meadows feel better about their earlier exchange. Who knows, if she’s friendly enough, maybe he’ll be able to cite their relationship next time he’s caught saying something awful.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWhat they left out of their questioning of Michael Cohen says more about the degradation of my former party than anything they said.By Peter WehnerContributing Opinion WriterMichael Cohen’s testimony before Congress on Wednesday revealed as much about the Republican Party as it did about President Trump and his former lawyer. In the aftermath of Mr. Cohen’s damning testimony, several things stand out.The first is that unlike John Dean, the former White House counsel who delivered searing testimony against President Richard Nixon in 1973, Mr. Cohen produced documents of Mr. Trump’s ethical and criminal wrongdoing. (Mr. Dean had to wait for the Watergate tapes to prove that what he was saying was true.)Mr. Cohen’s most explosive evidence included a copy of a check Mr. Trump wrote from his personal bank account, while he was president, to reimburse Mr. Cohen for hush money payments. The purpose of that hush money, of course, was to cover up Mr. Trump’s affair with a pornographic film star in order to prevent damage to his campaign.Other evidence produced by Mr. Cohen included financial statements, examples of Mr. Trump inflating and deflating his wealth to serve his interests, examples of charity fraud, efforts to intimidate Mr. Cohen and his family and even letters sent by Mr. Cohen to academic institutions threatening legal actions if Mr. Trump’s grades and SAT scores were released. (Mr. Trump hammered President Barack Obama on this front, referring to him as a “terrible student, terrible,” and mocking him for not releasing his grades.)Yet Republicans on the House Committee on Oversight and Reform, in their frantic effort to discredit Mr. Cohen, went after him while steadfastly ignoring the actual evidence he produced. They tried to impugn his character, but were unable to impugn the documents he provided. Nor did a single Republican offer a character defense of Mr. Trump. It turns out that was too much, even for them.In that sense, what Republicans didn’t say reveals the truth about what happened at the hearing on Wednesday as much as what they did say. Republicans showed no interest, for example, in pursuing fresh allegations made by Mr. Cohen that Mr. Trump knew  that WikiLeaks planned to release hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee in the summer of 2016.In a sane world, the fact that the president’s former lawyer produced evidence that the president knowingly and deceptively committed a federal crime — hush money payments that violated campaign finance laws — is something that even members of the president’s own party would find disquieting. But not today’s Republican Party.Instead, in the most transparent and ham-handed way, they saw no evil and heard no evil, unless it involved Mr. Cohen. Republicans on the committee tried to destroy the credibility of his testimony, not because they believe that his testimony is false, but because they fear it is true.By now Republicans must know, deep in their hearts, that Mr. Cohen’s portrayal of Mr. Trump as a “racist,” “a con man” and “a cheat” is spot on. So it is the truth they fear, and it is the truth — the fundamental reality of the world as it actually is — that they feel compelled to destroy. This is the central organizing principle of the Republican Party now. More than tax cuts. More than trade wars. More even than building a wall on our southern border. Republicans are dedicated to annihilating truth in order to defend Mr. Trump and they will go after anyone, from Mr. Cohen to Robert Mueller, who is a threat to him.He is their emperor, and they are his political Praetorian Guard.A second thing that stands out from Mr. Cohen’s testimony is that the Republican Party has been as corrupted by its association with Mr. Trump as Mr. Cohen was by his. As Mr. Cohen told Republican lawmakers, “I did the same thing that you’re doing now. For 10 years. I protected Mr. Trump for 10 years.” He then issued this warning to them: “The more people that follow Mr. Trump — as I did blindly — are going to suffer the same consequences that I’m suffering.” Mr. Cohen later explained the ethos of Trumpworld: “Everybody’s job at the Trump Organization is to protect Mr. Trump. Every day most of us knew we were coming and we were going to lie for him about something. That became the norm.”The ethic that became the norm at the Trump Organization —- defacing the truth and disfiguring reality in the service of Donald J. Trump — is the ethic that has become the norm of the Republican Party and the American right.This is what some of us who are conservatives and who have been lifelong Republicans have warned since Mr. Trump began his quest for the presidency — that his corruptions would eventually become theirs.It didn’t take long.The way these things happen is simple and insidious. In this case, because Mr. Trump was their party’s nominee, many Republicans felt duty bound to defend him, even though they would from time to time call him out for his worst offenses. They also held out the hope that Mr. Trump would grow in office and become more presidential.What happened is quite different: As Mr. Trump was elected and then inaugurated, Republicans became more and more reluctant to call him out and more and more vocal in defending him and attacking his critics; rather than weakening, their loyalty to him intensified. And the president, rather than becoming more responsible, has become less restrained, more volatile, more unhinged. The result is the ethical wreckage we saw on display Wednesday.Republicans should brace for even more damaging revelations. The evidence presented on Wednesday was harmful to the president, but Mr. Cohen quite likely revealed only a small fraction of what the Southern District of New York and the Mueller investigation have amassed. Mr. Cohen did suggest that federal prosecutors are investigating unspecified criminal allegations involving the president that have not been made public.When this story is finally told — when the sordid details are revealed, the dots finally connected — the Republican Party will be the political and institutional version of Mr. Cohen, who squandered his integrity in the service of a man of borderless corruption.Peter Wehner (@Peter Wehner), a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, served in the previous three Republican administrations and is a contributing opinion writer.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBelligerence, shamelessness and partisanship can take you far.By Jamelle BouieOpinion ColumnistWatergate, the modern template for an impeachment-worthy scandal, has informed much of the coverage of the Russia scandal, from congressional inquiries to the special counsel’s investigation into President Trump and his campaign. Central questions — Did the president conspire to illegally influence the election? Did he obstruct justice? — have clear antecedents in Watergate. And Trump himself bears more than a slight resemblance to Richard Nixon at his most paranoid and intransigent.But while Trump’s belligerent and at times bizarre behavior may mirror that of his predecessor, he is operating in a vastly different political context than Nixon was in the 1970s. Then, the Republican Party had an influential moderate faction willing to work with Democrats. Now it’s synonymous with the right-wing. Then, fact-finding produced public consensus and eventually pushed Republicans to do the right thing. Now it heightens the partisan divide.For this and other reasons, the Watergate example doesn’t fit the circumstances of the moment. But Iran-contra, the major scandal of the Reagan administration, does.The main details of Iran-contra are straightforward. In 1982, the United States began backing the contras, the right-wing paramilitary opposition to Nicaragua’s left-wing Sandinista government. Late in 1983, controversy over this assistance led Congress to pull its support. President Ronald Reagan, determined to stop what he saw as the spread of communism in Central America, directed his national security adviser, Robert McFarlane, to “keep the contras together body and soul.”Over the next two years, multiple administration officials would work to circumvent Congress’s prohibition on American involvement, first through fund-raising — soliciting $32 million from Saudi Arabia over several years — and then through illegal arms sales to Iran, spearheaded by a National Security Council staff member, Oliver North. In 1986, the scheme exploded into public view after the Lebanese magazine Al Shiraa published the story of the arms sales to Iran and Sandinista forces downed a cargo plane carrying weapons and other supplies for the contras.The scandal implicated top cabinet and administration officials, with strong evidence tying Vice President George H.W. Bush to the conspiracy as well. Figures with direct involvement, like North and Adm. John Poindexter (who succeeded McFarlane as national security adviser), altered records and lied to Congress in an attempt to stymie investigators and insulate the president from culpability.The particular twists and turns of Iran-contra don’t mirror the Russia scandal’s. The politics, however, do. As with Trump and Russia, the White House itself was defiant. “Admiral Poindexter and Colonel North put their careers on the line to protect our country,” Pat Buchanan, then serving as White House communications director, said at a rally in Miami in December 1986. “If Colonel North broke any rules, he will stand up and take it as the Marine he is. But I say, if Colonel North ripped off the ayatollah and took some $30 million to give to the contras, God bless Colonel North.”Most Republicans outside the administration also stood firmly behind the Reagan administration, even in the face of clear wrongdoing. “I don’t want you prosecuted,” Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah said to North during the colonel’s testimony before a House and Senate select committee on the scandal in 1987. “I don’t. I don’t think many people in America do. And I think there’s going to be one lot of hell raised if you are.”The minority report of the select committee — written by its Republican members, including Dick Cheney, then representing Wyoming — was dismissive of claims of malfeasance. “The bottom line,” it reads, “is that the mistakes of the Iran-contra Affair were just that — mistakes in judgment, and nothing more. There was no constitutional crisis, no systematic disrespect for ‘the rule of law,’ no grand conspiracy, and no Administration-wide dishonesty or cover-up.”Later, as congressional hearings gave way to a federal investigation, Republicans would attack the inquiry outright.“Lawrence Walsh’s bungling Iran-contra operation has struck out again,” said the Senate minority leader, Bob Dole, slamming the independent counsel who led a yearslong investigation of the affair. “Unfortunately, the American taxpayers continue to be the real losers, watching their tax dollars going down the drain to maintain Mr. Walsh’s exercise in futility.”The public might have been initially skeptical of President Reagan’s claims of ignorance, but Republican unity in the face of intense scrutiny kept that from spiraling into a full-blown political crisis. Reagan left office on a high note, with 63 percent approval in December 1988. Nor did the scandal derail Bush, who won the presidency just a month before.For the 22 months of Robert Mueller’s inquiry into Trump and his associates, Republicans have followed an almost identical approach. They’ve stuck by his side, shielding him from congressional investigators and defending his public conduct. Unlike Nixon, and to a greater extent than Reagan, Trump has also had the help of a powerful conservative media ecosystem ready to amplify his rhetoric, attack his political adversaries and even provide material for his verbal assaults.If Mueller’s inquiry had ended with a bombshell revelation like the one in Watergate — where Nixon essentially confessed to obstruction of justice on tape, asking the director and the deputy director of the C.I.A. to pressure the F.B.I. into ending its investigation of the break-in — this protective strategy might have collapsed against the force of the facts. Instead, the report, at least as summarized by Attorney General William Barr, landed with a thud.Barr clears Trump of wrongdoing, using Mueller’s inability to “establish that members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities” to conclude that neither Trump nor his campaign “conspired or coordinated with Russia in its efforts to influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election.”Barr — who recommended pardons for key actors in Iran-contra as attorney general for George H.W. Bush in 1991 and who ruled out charging a president with obstruction in an unsolicited June 2018 memo — also determined that the “evidence developed” during the investigation “is not sufficient to establish that the president committed an obstruction-of-justice offense.”Instead of ending in drama like Watergate, the Russia scandal is likely to fade away like Iran-contra. There is still a report to read — reportedly more than 300 pages long — but President Trump has already declared victory. He is now a little less damaged ahead of his re-election campaign, a testament to how belligerence, shamelessness and partisanship can undermine any attempt to hold a president or his allies accountable for wrongdoing.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Jamelle Bouie became a New York Times Opinion columnist in 2019. Before that he was the chief political correspondent for Slate magazine. He is based in Charlottesville, Va., and Washington.  @jbouie Advertisement
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
AdvertisementSupported byG.O.P. lawmakers who started by making excuses for the president’s most repulsive personal traits have now moved on to bedrock principles. They are headed for a reckoning.By Timothy EganContributing Opinion Writer The character sketch of Donald Trump by the keeper of his secrets was no surprise to anyone who has given a passing glance at the hulk of malevolence in the Oval Office. He cheats. He defrauds. He lies by way of respiration.He thinks his son is an idiot, and that only suckers served in Vietnam. He believes blacks are incapable of governing. He acts like a gangster. He stiffs contractors and pays off porn stars. We knew all of that. Getting it under oath from a man who was once executive vice president and special counsel to Trump just gave historians a formality for the obvious.But if Michael D. Cohen’s description of a president who morphed into “the worst version of himself” was not news, certainly the way Republicans took the baton from the ex-loyalist was. They have now become Trump’s fixers, doing his dirty work, issuing threats and ditching long-held principles like so many empty beer bottles thrown from a car.Cohen’s portrayal of the fraud in the White House, and the details of a Trump Organization run like a criminal enterprise, are not disqualifying to Republicans. Just the opposite. Trump is a racist, a con, a cheat, in Cohen’s words — but those are among the reasons people voted for him. Proving it only strengthens his standing with a large sector of the electorate and many members of Congress.When Cohen described how Trump would fail to pay people who’d done work for him, or weaseled his way out of his share of taxes, or inflated his assets for what sounds like insurance and bank fraud — well, those are marks of a good businessman who knows how to game the system.And when Cohen recounted Trump’s belief that he couldn’t name a country run by a black that wasn’t a “shithole,” he was also trashing the United States under President Barack Obama. But it’s an insult that has found a home in right-wing media.“Every day, most of us knew we were coming in and we were going to lie for him,” Cohen said of a typical shift at Trump Tower. Professional prevarication on behalf of Trump “was normalized,” he said. “And no one around him questioned it. In fairness, no one around him today questions it, either.”The hearing before the House committee proved his point. Did one Republican stand up and decry Cohen’s litany of presidential lies? They blasted Cohen the liar, but not the man he lied for. Did one Republican decry the $35,000 check — proof, as Cohen said, that “The president of the United States thus wrote a personal check for the payment of hush money as part of a criminal scheme to violate campaign finance laws”?It’s been clear, ever since the last of the never-Trumpers were rooted out of the party, that the G.O.P. would be an extension of the grime and grift of Trump’s personal brand. But now the enablers are willing to do what Cohen said he once did for Trump — take a bullet for him.Among Cohen’s duties as Trump fixer was to threaten people; he did this maybe 500 times, by his recounting. That job has been taken over by Republican elected officials like Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida. He threatened Cohen on the eve of his testimony, mentioning his family in an ominous tweet.Initially, Gaetz compared witness intimidation to the “marketplace of ideas.” Sure. In the same way that pushing someone in a wheelchair down a flight of stairs is like a sled ride. Gaetz has taken his tweet back, but his crude attempt at thuggery stands out for how loathsome his party has become.The creepy criminal world that surrounds Trump is not off-putting to many Republicans. It was R. Alexander Acosta who helped to negotiate the deal that gave a ridiculously low sentence to Trump’s billionaire buddy Jeffrey E. Epstein, accused of trafficking children for sex. Acosta is now Trump’s labor secretary, approved by the Republican Senate.Trump had called Epstein, who pled guilty to soliciting prostitution, “a terrific guy,” adding that, “It is even said that he likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the young side.” This is disgusting.Republicans who started down this road by making excuses for Trump’s most repulsive personal traits have moved on to bedrock principles. The party of deficit hawks didn’t blink at the trillion-dollar hole in the budget that came with the tax cut, so long as it gave Trump a “win.” They were fine with a president who sided with Vladimir Putin in a traitorous exchange in Helsinki. And the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, who has fashioned himself as an institutional guardian of the Constitution, threw that document in a dumpster after he backed Trump’s brazen violation of the separation of powers.They are headed for a reckoning. In years to come, people will ask, “What did we do to make sure our democracy is intact?” as Representative Elijah Cummings, the committee chairman, put it. For Trump’s new fixers, Cohen gave them an answer: “I did the same thing you’re doing now.”I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan).The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this article misstated the size of the budget deficit that accompanied the tax cut. It was in the trillions of dollars, not billions. It also described the House panel in the Michael Cohen hearing incorrectly. The House Oversight Committee is a standing committee, not a select one.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe idea sounds crazy — until suddenly it doesn’t. By Jonathan Rauch and Peter WehnerMr. Rauch is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and Mr. Wehner is a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center.At first glance, in the wake of the roars of approval President Trump received from Republican lawmakers during his State of the Union address on Tuesday night, it may seem fanciful to think the president might be forced out of office by members of his own party. At second glance, too. Yet sometimes things that seem impossible one moment become inevitable the next.We believe that Mr. Trump’s strength among Republicans is more precarious than it appears. For reasons both substantial and practical, we believe his disgorgement by Republicans can happen, might happen — and should happen. Contrary to conventional wisdom, removal by his party would be as healthy for America’s democracy as his removal by the voters, perhaps more so.Being sane, we understand why the prospect of Mr. Trump’s being forced to resign or face impeachment and conviction before the end of his term is unlikely. His losing a renomination fight seems only slightly more likely. After all, his ejection depends on a significant part of the Republican Party turning against him — and right now it belongs to him.Mr. Trump’s Gallup approval rating among Republicans is almost 90 percent and has never dipped significantly below 80 percent. His followers defenestrate Republicans who defy or repudiate him. In the recent midterm elections, Mr. Trump and his backers further consolidated their grip on the party, even as they lost their grip on the House of Representatives.But that is hardly the whole story. Recent developments should deeply worry Republicans, starting with those disastrous midterms. The Republican Party may have held on to the Senate, but Democrats now control the House of Representatives because they won more congressional seats than they had since the post-Watergate tsunami of 1974. They gained seven governorships and nearly 350 state legislature seats. According to exit polls, Democrats improved over their 2014 midterm showing by six or more percentage points among men, women, married voters, unmarried voters, whites, Hispanics, Asians, voters under 30, voters over 59, moderates, independents, urbanites and voters with college degrees.In other words, Republicans lost significant ground among everyone except Mr. Trump’s core base of rural, evangelical and “noncollege” supporters (and even among them, the Republican margin shrank a bit). This happened with unemployment lower than at any time since 1969 and with Republican turnout at its highest level in a century.Mr. Trump’s hard-core base is large enough to dominate the Republican Party, at least for now, but it is not large enough to dominate the country. In the long run, a third or so of the country cannot effectively govern the other two-thirds with an unpopular agenda and a Twitter account. Mr. Trump will almost surely achieve less legislatively in the second half of his term than he did in the first, when Republicans controlled both branches of Congress — and even then their record was not impressive.In short, by consolidating behind Mr. Trump, the Republican Party is isolating and alienating itself from the broader public. Indeed, the Trump paradox is that his support deepens among his most persistent admirers even as it erodes everywhere else. As a result, Mr. Trump headed into his third-year State of the Union message with the second-lowest approval rating in history, despite a roaring economy. (Ronald Reagan, who bested Mr. Trump for this dubious honor in 1983, spoke at the nadir of a deep recession.)Meanwhile, chaos is consuming the Trump administration. The president, cowed by his base, engineered a very unpopular government shutdown for which most people held him (and his party) responsible. He finally agreed to a deal to reopen the government, but only on terms dictated to him by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, to the dismay of some of his most prominent right-wing supporters. In December, his mercurial decision-making drove his widely respected defense secretary to quit in protest. Scandals and corruption besiege the president on every side. His administration is being investigated by a special counsel, by the Southern District of New York and soon by House Democrats armed with subpoena power. The president’s behavior is becoming more erratic and bizarre, and his own aides have confided that he is “unhinged.”What, then, might flip Mr. Trump’s removal from impossible to inevitable? The most likely possibility is also the most obvious: the collapse of his support among center-right Republicans who so far have wavered but not completely turned against him.Whether this happens depends on future events, the most ominous of which would be the discovery of clear criminality by the president or those closest to him (including family members). Another inflection point might be an economic recession. A third might be Mr. Trump’s mismanagement of a crisis. A fourth would be the continued deterioration of the president’s behavior. (By most accounts the president feels less constrained than ever.) And yet another might be the prospect that he will lead his party to comprehensive defeat in 2020, especially if he is weakened by a primary challenge. We would be surprised if one or more of these developments did not occur, and a combination is easily within the bounds of probability.Watergate showed how a president’s standing can cave in. Congressional Republicans supported and protected President Richard Nixon until the Watergate tapes provided irrefutable evidence of his wrongdoing. Then they withdrew their support and he resigned to avoid impeachment and conviction. There may be no single smoking-gun tape in Mr. Trump’s case, but the sheer weight of financial and ethical wrongdoing could become too much, even for many Republicans. And today’s Republican politicians, while more partisan than in Nixon’s day, remain acutely sensitive to public opinion. If some combination of criminality, incompetence or crisis moves the center-right against the president, his end could come quickly.If that happens, Mr. Trump might step down to avoid impeachment, particularly if he were promised clemency for himself and his family. Short of outright resignation or removal, he could suffer enough defections so that he might announce he will not seek re-election. That would be a half-measure, but one that would allow the post-Trump conversation to begin. The Johnson-Nixon era provides precedents for all of these scenarios.We understand the argument that the best result would be for voters, rather than the Republican Party, to do the job of removing Mr. Trump. But we believe this argument neglects an important reason that Mr. Trump’s removal by his party would be at least as healthy, democratically speaking: It would reinvigorate the idea that political parties exist not just as vehicles for politicians but also as protectors of vital democratic norms.The most troubling — and from our point of view the most disappointing — development of the Trump era is not the president’s own election and subsequent behavior; it is the institutional corruption, weakness and self-betrayal of the Republican Party. The party has abandoned its core commitments to constitutional norms, to conservative principles and even to basic decency. It has allowed itself to be hijacked by a reality television star who is a pathological liar, emotionally unsteady and accountable only to himself. And Republicans have embraced presidential conduct that, had it been engaged in by a Democrat, they would have denounced as corrupt, incompetent and even treasonous.We disagree with those who think that Mr. Trump’s removal by his own party would weaken democratic accountability; if anything, the opposite is true. The United States has only two major political parties, and it needs both to be healthy, rational and small-d democratic. They are our system’s most durable and accountable political institutions and they comprise its first and most important line of defense against political demagogues and conscience-free charlatans. By reasserting its institutional prerogatives — by setting limits to the depredations and recklessness it will accept — the Republican Party would be acting to deter hijackers in the future. In doing so, it would defend our democracy, not weaken it.In any event, the Republican gamble that the party can ride out the Trump era without suffering tremendous damage is looking worse every day. As Republican lawmakers have privately told us and others, they know Mr. Trump will not change. The incontestability of his psychological defects and character flaws has finally sunk in. What remains to be done is for Republicans to prevent what many of them privately know is quite likely for their party if Mr. Trump remains their leader: a crash landing.In that sense, Mr. Trump’s presidency has become to the Republican Party what Vietnam was to President Lyndon Johnson. By 1965, Johnson saw Vietnam for the unwinnable quagmire that it was, but he feared and ultimately bowed to the short-term consequences of withdrawing. “It’s like being in an airplane and I have to choose between crashing the plane or jumping out,” he told his wife. “I do not have a parachute.” We know today that Johnson made the wrong decision.Increasingly, it is dawning on Republicans that they are making the same mistake. But they do have a parachute, one named Mike Pence. The vice president would continue many of Mr. Trump’s policies, if that’s what they want, but potentially without all the dysfunction, a result that conservatives could live with and that the voters could judge for themselves in 2020.In a recent column about the sudden possibility that Britain would change its mind about Brexit, the economist Anatole Kaletsky remarked: “In times of political turmoil, events can move from impossible to inevitable without even passing through improbable.” The same is true of Trexit.Of course, Mr. Trump’s exit is a long shot. In democracies, sick political parties usually need years in the wilderness before they can heal. We have not talked ourselves into being confident, or even particularly optimistic, that the Republican Party will treat its own fever. But if there is one thing that the age of Trump has clarified, it is that “unimaginable” and “impossible” are not at all the same thing.Jonathan Rauch (@jon_rauch) is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and the author of “Political Realism: How Hacks, Machines, Big Money and Back-Room Deals Can Strengthen American Democracy.” Peter Wehner (@Peter Wehner), a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, served in the previous three Republican administrations and is a contributing opinion writer.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — Democrats hoped to put their wrenching intraparty debate over anti-Semitism to rest when they passed a catchall antibigotry resolution in the House this month, but Senate Republicans, eager to court American Jews outraged by the rise of anti-Semitism, have other plans.Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, is backing two new bills timed to be trumpeted at this week’s annual meeting in Washington of the largest pro-Israel advocacy group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. Mr. McConnell has already passed a measure this year giving local and state governments the authority to break ties with companies that boycott or divest from Israel.The actions are part of a larger political strategy aimed, in part, at showing that Republicans are more willing to directly tackle anti-Semitic hate speech and anti-Israel language than divided Democrats in the lower chamber, Republican aides and operatives said. But hate speech has hardly been a longtime cause célèbre for the Republican Party, whose members have opposed efforts to expand similar protections to victims of discrimination based on gender and sexual orientation.One measure, a “sense of the Senate” resolution, is intended as a direct rebuke of comments made by Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, who suggested that some American Jews had dual loyalties to both Israel and the United States. The bill, sponsored by Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, could reach the floor as early as this week, leadership aides said, and is likely to be passed unanimously or with only minimal opposition.The centerpiece of the resolution is the declaration that “anti-Semitism has for hundreds of years included attacks on the loyalty of Jews.”A draft circulated in the Senate also links the dual loyalty charge to the “circulation of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion by the secret police of Russia,” a reference to a fabricated early-20th century document intended to whip up anti-Semitism by purporting to show a Jewish plot for global domination.Senate Republicans have not always been so enthusiastic about toughening anti-discrimination enforcement. Efforts by Democrats during the Obama administration to pass the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which added gender, sexual orientation and disability to the list of federally recognized hate crimes, were initially blocked by Republicans, led by Jeff Sessions, then a senator and later Mr. Trump’s first attorney general.The measure eventually passed in 2009, but only five Senate Republicans voted yes. Mr. McConnell and many members of his current leadership team opposed it.The sense of the Senate measure is intended as a challenge to Ms. Omar, although her name was intentionally omitted from the text to attract Democrats who might otherwise object, according to an aide involved in the drafting process.“It’s absolutely critical for the United States Senate to stand up, speak with one voice and condemn” anti-Semitism, said Billy Gribbin, a spokesman for Mr. Cruz.A second, less drastic bill — a bipartisan effort to target anti-Semitism on college campuses through the Education Department’s civil rights enforcement division — poses a far more substantial political threat to Democrats trying to move quickly past the dust-up over Ms. Omar.The Anti-Semitism Awareness Act, which is working its way through committee, is likely to pass the Senate this year, and could force Speaker Nancy Pelosi into the uncomfortable position of brokering another deal between progressives and Jewish Democrats at a time when she wants the chamber to focus on presenting unified opposition to President Trump.The measure, co-sponsored by Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, and Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, passed the Senate in 2016 with bipartisan support. But it quickly stalled in the House, which was then controlled by Republicans, and attracted the opposition of many civil liberties groups that believe it threatens free speech on campuses.The bill broadly defines anti-Semitism as “harassment on the basis of actual or perceived shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics with a religious group” and also targets “discriminatory anti-Israel conduct that crosses the line into anti-Semitism.”Under the measure, the Education Department would be required to investigate and possibly penalize universities that receive federal aid if they failed to crack down on incidents, using the same process laid out under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which has historically been used to deal with discrimination based on race.Ms. Pelosi has not said whether she would support the bill if it passed the Senate, and a spokeswoman declined to comment. A House leadership aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized publicly, said the bill was likely to draw extended scrutiny in House committees before — or if — it was ever considered on the floor.It is not clear how Ms. Omar and other progressives would vote on the measure, although similar efforts have attracted opposition on the basis of objections by the American Civil Liberties Union and progressive Jewish groups.“This legislation appears designed less to combat anti-Semitism than to have a chilling effect and to crack down on campus critics of Israel,” Jeremy Ben-Ami, the president of J Street, a liberal advocacy group that has been sharply critical of Israel’s government under Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said in a text message.“It’s misguided to legislatively declare a broad range of nonviolent campus criticism of Israel as anti-Semitism, especially at a time when the prime driver of anti-Semitism is the xenophobic, white nationalist far-right,” he said. “This bill is part of a cynical effort by some of its right-wing proponents to turn the issue of anti-Semitism into a partisan political weapon.”But in the past, the bill has had widespread support among lawmakers in both parties, and it has the backing of Aipac and the Anti-Defamation League. It also has the support of a powerful outside advocate: David Krone, the hard-driving former chief of staff to Harry Reid, the former Senate Democratic leader, who has used his contacts in the party to push the measure for several years in response to a wave of anti-Semitism on college campuses.“I find great irony in what Congresswoman Omar said about the issue of Jews and dual loyalty,” Mr. Krone said in an interview. “I am certain that she found the whole birther movement disgusting, vile and flat-out racist. I agree. It was abhorrent to question the loyalty of President Obama. But how, on one hand, can she say it is wrong about people questioning President Obama’s loyalties, but on the other hand, question mine as a Jew? What she said and what some stupid birther said are equally idiotic.”Ms. Omar’s spokesman did not immediately return a request for comment.Top Democrats are hardly ready to cede support of Israel to Republicans. Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the Democratic leader, gave a rousing defense of the American-Israeli relationship at the Aipac conference Sunday evening, promising to push for a resolution that opposes the boycott Israel movement. Without naming her, he took several jabs at Ms. Omar.“Ladies and gentlemen, when someone accuses American supporters of dual loyalty, I say: Accuse me.” Mr. Hoyer declared.And he also took a shot at two other freshman Democrats who are critical of Israel, Representatives Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York: “By the way, there are 62 freshman Democrats. You hear me? Sixty-two, not three.”Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A new research paper tracked the political donations of thousands of C.E.O.s from 2000 through 2017. The results, Andrew writes in his latest column, reveal what top business leaders really think about politics.They’re usually Republican. Nearly 58 percent of C.E.O.s showed a preference for the G.O.P., with just 18 percent designated as Democrats. (For executives to be counted as either, two thirds of their donations had to go to candidates affiliated with one party.)About a quarter were considered neutral. The report doesn’t disclose who was in each category, but its authors told Andrew that Tim Cook of Apple was neutral, having donated to both Hillary Clinton and Paul Ryan over the years.The disparity was narrower in some sectors. Tech and internet companies had somewhat more Democratic-leaning C.E.O.s. And female leaders were nearly evenly split between the G.O.P., Democrats and neutral territory.But the Republicans are quieter. The study found that there was a statistically significant association between a company having a Republican C.E.O. and less disclosure of political contributions.Why it matters: “The opinions held by executives have always resonated beyond their own industries, but their importance is more pronounced today,” Andrew writes. “Mr. Trump, for example, has not hesitated to equate economic policy with foreign policy. It is, then, instructive to understand the political views of our business leaders.”The U.S. and China will embark on another round of high-level trade talks in a final attempt to hash out an agreement, according to the WSJ.• “U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin plan to fly to Beijing next week to meet with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He, Trump administration officials said.”• “The following week, a Chinese delegation led by Mr. Liu is expected to continue talks in Washington.”There are conflicting views on how far they’ve got: America seems upbeat. President Trump yesterday said that talks were “going very well,” and Myron Brilliant, executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said that “we’re in the endgame.” But China may be wary. “Some U.S. negotiators are concerned that China is pushing back against American demands in trade talks,” Bloomberg reports, citing unnamed sources. It may walk back some promises because they didn’t prompt assurances about American concessions.A deal could be ready by the end of April if the next talks go well, the WSJ estimates, about a month later than previously expected.Meanwhile, in Europe:  President Xi Jinping’s trip to Italy and France this week is drawing attention to Europe’s conflicted views on China.After years of criticism, Facebook said it would no longer permit advertisers in key categories to show their messages only to people of a certain race, gender or age group, Noam Scheiber and Mike Isaac of the NYT report.• Anyone advertising housing, jobs or credit would no longer have the option of explicitly aiming ads on the basis of those characteristics.• The new rules also cover advertising on Instagram and Messenger, which Facebook owns.• Facebook said it planned to carry out the changes by the end of the year.• The changes are part of a settlement with groups that have sued Facebook over these practices in recent years.The shift will annoy advertisers. Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s C.O.O., told the NYT that the changes could make advertising on Facebook less efficient for some customers, but that it was “a cost well worth bearing.”And it has limits. “I don’t think it solves the problem of the potential for biased serving of ads,” Pauline Kim, a professor of employment law at Washington University in St. Louis, told the NYT. She explained that Facebook’s algorithms could show any ad to a particular audience if that audience were determined to be likelier to click on it.More Facebook news: Representative David Cicilline, the head of the House antitrust subcommittee, explains why he is calling on the F.T.C. to investigate the company. And are we asking it the wrong questions in the wake of the Christchurch shooting?In the wake of two fatal crashes involving Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane, a new focus for investigations is how the F.A.A. certified the jet as safe, David Gelles and Tom Kaplan of the NYT report.• “The 737 Max was one of the first commercial jets approved under new rules, which delegated more authority to Boeing than had been the case when most previous planes were certified.”• “Top F.A.A. officials, who are briefed on significant safety issues, were not aware” of an automated piloting system suspected in the crashes, Mr. Gelles and Mr. Kaplan report, citing unnamed sources.• “The software did not elicit what are known as special conditions, usually applied to a novel feature that requires additional regulations before it can be certified as safe.” But other features, like non-rechargeable lithium batteries, received that designation.• Skepticism about the F.A.A.’s approval process existed before the crashes. “In 2012, an investigation by the Transportation Department’s Office of Inspector General found that F.A.A. managers had not always been supportive of efforts by agency employees to ‘hold Boeing accountable.’ ”• “The United States transportation secretary, Elaine L. Chao, on Tuesday called for her agency’s internal watchdog to open an inquiry into the process.”More aviation news: President Trump nominated Stephen Dickson, a former Delta Air Lines executive, to lead the F.A.A. And an off-duty pilot reportedly helped save a Lion Air 737 Max 8 flight in software-driven trouble just one day before the same jet crashed.The tech giant introduced a service yesterday that allows people to play high-definition games instantly over the internet. It’s hoping to lead a revolution in the $135 billion industry.Think of it as Netflix for video games. “The new service, called Stadia, will work for anyone with a fast internet connection and a computer, phone or tablet,” Daisuke Wakabayashi and Brian Chen of the NYT write. “Users pay a subscription to access a library of games that they can immediately play, as opposed to the traditional model of paying for a disc or waiting to download a game.”This isn’t the only game-streaming option. Sony offers one called PlayStation Now, and Microsoft plans to test something similar this year. The idea hasn’t yet hit the mainstream because streaming games is more technically demanding than streaming movies — and therefore prone to glitches.Plenty of unanswered questions hang over the announcement. What games will be available? How much will the service cost? And more fundamentally, what is Google’s business model? None of that is clear.But Google has not-so-secret weapons. “Using the global network of data centers that run its internet empire, it is set to unleash enough raw computing power to blow away the industry’s current way of doing things,” the FT writes, and it has “YouTube as a shop window.” Shares in Sony and Nintendo tumbled after the announcement.More Google news: In Europe, the company is changing how it displays some search results, and is giving Android users a choice of web browser to stave off complaints — and potential fines — from antitrust regulators.Just after midnight Eastern Time, Walt Disney closed its $71.3 billion takeover of 21st Century Fox. It has become, Brooks Barnes of the NYT writes, “an entertainment colossus the size of which the world has never seen.”Disney now owns an enviable array of assets. It already runs blockbuster properties like Marvel, Lucasfilm and ESPN, and a huge global theme-park operation. But buying most of Rupert Murdoch’s media empire brings:• The 20th Century Fox movie and TV studios, home to “X-Men” and “The Simpsons”• The Nat Geo and FX cable channels• Most of the Hulu streaming service• Star, the fast-growing Indian video providerThe consequences could be huge. Smaller studios may have to merge. Theater owners could lose out on box-office splits. And Disney’s efforts to dominate streaming could pose big challenges to Netflix, Amazon and Apple.But the stakes are high. “Mr. Iger and his lieutenants need to persuade investors to start viewing Disney more like a technology company, where near-term financial turbulence is often overlooked,” Mr. Barnes writes. And melding two corporate cultures isn’t easy.Anheuser-Busch InBev named Marty Barrington, the former C.E.O. of Altria, as its new chairman. Alex Behring, the head of the investment firm 3G Capital, stepped down from the board.Paul Ryan, the former House speaker, has joined the board of Fox.WarnerMedia named Toby Emmerich, Peter Roth and Kimberly Williams as interim co-heads of Warner Bros. while it seeks a replacement for Kevin Tsujihara.Kickstarter’s co-founder Perry Chen is stepping down as C.E.O.Barclays has hired Bob Peck, who was global head of internet investment banking at Credit Suisse, as a chairman of global internet banking.Deals• Lyft’s I.P.O. is reportedly oversubscribed, just two days after it started pitching to prospective investors. (Reuters)• Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany plans to stay out of merger talks between Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank. (NYT)• Apax and Warburg Pincus are leading a $3.3 billion takeover bid for Inmarsat, the satellite operator. (FT)• Glossier, the online cosmetics company, raised $100 million from investors led by Sequoia at a $1.2 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• Hyundai shareholders are expected to back the company in its fight against Elliott Management, which aims to shake up the carmaker’s board. (Nikkei)Politics and policy• Joe Biden reportedly told supporters that he plans to run for the Democratic presidential nomination. (WSJ)• Robert Mueller began investigating Michael Cohen’s emails in 2017, within months of starting as special counsel. (NYT)• How billions of dollars from military projects across the country could be used for President Trump’s border wall. (Axios)• The Trump administration has lost at least 63 court battles in the last two years, often for failing to provide clear explanations and allow public comment on decisions. (WaPo)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain will seek a short delay — reportedly up to three months — to Brexit. (FT)• The European Commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that European leaders may decide whether to grant a delay next week. The current Brexit deadline is next Friday. (Guardian)• Financial services companies may move an estimated £1 trillion, or $1.32 trillion, in financial assets out of Britain because of Brexit, according to the consulting firm EY. (FT)Tech• Apple is working with three nonprofits to develop anti-disinformation programs. (Axios)• Instagram introduced a feature that lets users buy clothes within its app. (NYT)• Myspace, the once-popular social network, says it may have permanently lost millions of photos, videos, and audio files from its peak period. (NYT)• An argument against breaking up Big Tech: Innovation could stagnate. (FT op-ed)• Airbnb hasn’t raised money in two years, so valuing it for an I.P.O. is tricky. (Recode)Best of the rest• Chinese companies are defaulting at “unprecedented” levels. (CNBC)• Economists around the world are trying to find an alternative to G.D.P. as a measure of prosperity. Here’s how that’s going. (Axios)• The S.E.C. plans to examine whether consolidation is reducing competition among U.S. asset managers. (FT)• The center fielder Mike Trout is reportedly near a $430 million deal with the L.A. Angels, which would be the biggest contract in North American sports history.. (ESPN)• Bill Gates has joined Jeff Bezos in the club of centibillionaires. They’re the only members. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan Blinder and Jonathan MartinRICHMOND, Va. — The political tumult in Virginia widened Thursday as the State Senate’s top Republican faced an onslaught of questions about racist photographs and slurs in a college yearbook that he helped oversee, transforming the Capitol’s nearly week-old crisis into a bipartisan reckoning over personal conduct.The senator, Thomas K. Norment Jr., who is the majority leader, was the managing editor of the 1968 Virginia Military Institute yearbook, which included slurs and images of students in blackface. Mr. Norment called the use of blackface “abhorrent” while pointing out that he did not take or appear in any of the photographs.He said he was not surprised that “those wanting to engulf Republican leaders” in the controversies that have rocked Virginia Democrats “would highlight the yearbook from my graduation a half-century ago.”[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]As Mr. Norment sought to defuse the fresh controversy, Lt. Gov. Justin E. Fairfax, a Democrat, faced mounting calls from leading members of his party for an investigation into a woman’s allegation that he sexually assaulted her in 2004. Several high-profile Democrats, including some 2020 presidential candidates and members of Virginia’s congressional delegation, said they thought the woman’s account was credible.The spiraling developments left Virginia bracing for a sustained stretch of upheaval as fears about the behavior of leading government officials showed little sign of abating. Yet there were also increasing signs that the besieged officials, including Gov. Ralph Northam, who on Saturday admitted to using blackface in 1984, and Attorney General Mark R. Herring, who made a similar acknowledgment on Wednesday, would remain in their posts.On Thursday night, the Virginia Legislative Black Caucus, which had not spoken collectively about the allegation against Mr. Fairfax or the blackface admission by Mr. Herring, issued a statement that may help the attorney general salvage his job. The black lawmakers praised Mr. Herring’s “candor” but said “we await further action on his part to reassure the citizens of the Commonwealth of his fitness for leadership.”Regarding Mr. Fairfax, they called the charges against him “troubling,” but said that he deserved due process and that they would monitor the matter closely “and act accordingly.”Mr. Northam, who has been out of public view since Sunday, called Mr. Fairfax and Mr. Herring on Thursday. It was the first conversation between the governor and the lieutenant governor since Saturday, and a Democrat familiar with the call said the two embattled state officials said they were praying for each other.[Read more about how Mr. Northam could hold onto his office despite the scandals.]Mr. Fairfax appeared to be in the gravest political peril, in part because he is the only official to have been accused of a possible crime. He has not been charged and has strenuously denied wrongdoing, but support for Mr. Fairfax, who just last week appeared poised for an imminent ascendance to the governor’s office, was tenuous.Virginia’s congressional Democrats met privately for about 40 minutes in Senator Tim Kaine’s office Thursday, and an official directly familiar with the discussion said Mr. Fairfax’s standing with the delegation is “deteriorating.”Some of the Democratic women newly elected to the House expressed anger at the way Mr. Fairfax has handled the claims leveled against him by Vanessa C. Tyson, a college professor from California, and particularly reports that he used profanity in a private meeting with State Senate Democrats to describe her claims. (Mr. Fairfax denies he referred to Dr. Tyson with an expletive.)But some of the African-American members of the delegation complained that Mr. Fairfax was being held to an unfair standard because of racial stereotypes about angry black men.Shortly before 8 p.m., Virginia’s entire Democratic congressional delegation released a statement that was similar to that from the legislative black caucus.Mr. Herring “must stand ready to answer questions from the public if he is to regain their trust,” the lawmakers said.They added that they were “deeply disturbed” by the claims against Mr. Fairfax. “We believe these allegations need to be taken very seriously, and we respect the right of women to come forward and be heard,” they said.The party’s presidential candidates, treading cautiously at the intersection of race and gender, are not going that far, instead publicly calling for an investigation and privately hoping more facts will emerge to lend clarity to the episode.“I thought her story was deeply disturbing and credible so there must be an investigation,” Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, a 2020 candidate who was one of the first major Democrats to call for the ouster of former Senator Al Franken, said on a Crooked Media podcast Wednesday night.Senator Kamala Harris of California, another presidential hopeful, called Dr. Tyson’s claims “credible” and said there should be an inquiry.In a two-and-a-half-page statement on Wednesday, Dr. Tyson provided an exhaustive account of her encounter with Mr. Fairfax in 2004, saying that he had forced her to perform oral sex on him.“I never gave any form of consent,” Dr. Tyson said.Mr. Fairfax has suggested that Dr. Tyson had misrepresented what occurred but called for her to “be treated with respect.” On Thursday, the lieutenant governor, who has regularly stopped to speak with reporters in recent days, rushed through the State Capitol. Ignoring questions about Dr. Tyson, he said only that he was headed to a Senate session and that he had spoken with Mr. Northam.It was only hours later that a new prong of the state’s scandal rattled the Capitol, after The Virginian-Pilot reported that Mr. Norment, a state senator since 1992, had served as the managing editor of a V.M.I. yearbook that showed racist imagery. Pages from the book that were viewed by The New York Times showed students in blackface and included slurs against African-Americans, Asians and Jews.Mr. Norment sought to put distance between his role with the yearbook and the pictures that appeared in it.“As one of seven working on a 359-page yearbook, I cannot endorse or associate myself with every photo, entry or word on each page,” Mr. Norment said.The disclosures about Mr. Norment marked the second time in about a day — and the third time since Friday — that a powerful state official faced scrutiny about the use of blackface. But in Richmond and Washington, Mr. Herring was being credited for how he navigated his own past mistake, even though he failed to mention his history when he called for Mr. Northam’s resignation last week.Speaking to reporters Thursday, Mr. Kaine praised Mr. Herring for his contrition and his candor with black legislators, to whom he first revealed his use of blackface.“He reached out to each of us individually, very apologetic, he is in dialogue with the legislative black caucus and African-American leadership in the state and they have been impressed with his sincerity while they’ve been very disappointed with what happened,” Mr. Kaine said.Gov. Ralph Northam DemocratMr. Northam faces calls for his resignation after a racist photo in his medical school yearbook emerged last week and he admitted he once blackened his face as part of a Michael Jackson costume.Lt. Gov. Justin E. FairfaxDemocratTwo days later, Mr. Fairfax, the next in line for governor, faced allegations of sexual assault.Attorney General Mark R. HerringDemocratOn Wednesday, Mr. Herring acknowledged that he put on blackface and wore a wig while an undergraduate at the University of Virginia in 1980.Speaker of the House of Delegates Kirk CoxRepublicanIf all three men were to resign without immediate replacements, Mr. Cox would become governor.If the speaker is ineligible to serve, then a replacement would be chosen by the House of Delegates.By The New York TimesRepublicans, however, were suspicious that the forbearance being offered Mr. Herring also owed to a political calculation: The Republican-controlled Legislature would be able to appoint the attorney general’s successor were he to resign while the General Assembly is in session.For their part, beleaguered Democrats in Richmond largely avoided questions about the fate of their executive branch as they ducked in and out of a Capitol that is now filled with state and national television crews.Rising on the floor of the House of Delegates, Delegate Eileen Filler-Corn, the minority leader, acknowledged that “the past few days have been incredibly difficult and painful for us personally and for the Commonwealth of Virginia” but did not address any of the transgressions.The torrent of missteps has left officials who so far are untainted answering questions about whether they have misconduct in their past that has not yet been disclosed.“I have never been in blackface, unequivocal,” Kirk Cox, the Republican speaker of the House of Delegates, said not long before Mr. Norment’s yearbook became the latest subject of statehouse controversy.Even as calls for his resignation have become more muted, Mr. Northam faced renewed public pressure on Thursday from the Rev. Al Sharpton, the civil rights leader who appeared at Virginia Union University, a historically black college, for a hastily arranged discussion.“If you sin, you must repent for the sin,” said Mr. Sharpton, who wants Mr. Northam and Mr. Herring to resign.Mr. Northam, who remained out of sight again on Thursday, has been urgently trying to repair his frayed ties with African-American supporters who had been crucial allies on the campaign trail and in the Capitol. He has hired a Washington-based communications firm led by African-Americans, and this week he invited two leaders of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference to the Executive Mansion.“He actually called me, and said he’d just like to talk to me,” Charles Steele, the group’s president, recounted in an interview on Thursday. The discussion that came of that invitation, Mr. Steele said, was “professional and polite,” and Mr. Steele hoped that the governor would enter into a longer process of reconciliation.“The governor still has to make a decision,” said Mr. Steele, who had previously urged Mr. Northam to resign. “I’m offering him the opportunity of a reconciliation.”Kate Andrews contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Heather MurphySupport for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights has increased or remained steady among Mormons, Muslims, political independents, Southerners, seniors and a number of other demographic groups in the United States since 2015, a new survey found. One notable outlier: young Republicans.Between 2015 and 2018, support for laws aimed at protecting L.G.B.T. individuals from discrimination fell by nearly 10 percentage points among Republicans under the age of 30. This was one of the key findings from a survey of more than 40,000 Americans’ views on L.G.B.T. issues that the Public Religion Research Institute released Tuesday.The majority of young Republicans surveyed — around 63 percent — continued to support such measures. But given that 74 percent were in favor in 2015, the shift was striking, said Robert P. Jones, the chief executive of the institute, a Washington-based nonpartisan nonprofit.“It was one of the largest and most significant drops that we saw,” Dr. Jones said.Understanding this shift would require additional study, he said, but one hypothesis he offered was that the ranks of young Republicans are thinning, with more socially liberal individuals opting to identify as independent. “The Republican Party is becoming more ideologically pure,” he suggested.The results for questions on nondiscrimination laws and refusal of service were based on about 40,000 interviews conducted in 2018 from March 14 to Dec. 16. Interviewers called 1,000 randomly selected people every week on landlines and cellphones and requested to speak with the youngest adult living in the household. The margin of error for these questions is plus or minus 0.5 percentage points.Views on same-sex marriage were built on a subset of about 4,000 telephone interviews conducted from March 14 to March 25, and from June 27 to July 8. The margin of error for that question is plus or minus 1.5 percentage points.Here are three other findings from the survey.Sixty-two percent of Americans continue to support same-sex marriage, the survey found. But among all racial and ethnic groups surveyed, individuals identifying as Asian-Pacific Islander Americans demonstrated the highest level of support for both same-sex marriage (75 percent) and for laws that would protect L.G.B.T. people from discrimination in jobs, public accommodations and housing (73 percent, four percentage points more than Americans over all).These figures could be partly explained by another finding: Researchers spotted a strong correlation between participants’ educational level and support of L.G.B.T. rights. Over all, Asian-Pacific Islander Americans were far more likely than other Americans surveyed to hold either a four-year college degree or a postgraduate degree, Dr. Jones said.Breaking survey responses down by participants’ faith, analysts found majority support for anti-discrimination measures for L.G.B.T. people from every major religious group. The strongest support came from Unitarian Universalists (90 percent), Jews (80 percent) and Hindus (79 percent). Seventy percent of Mormons, 60 percent of Muslims and 54 percent of white evangelical Protestants were also in favor.Researchers had also found widespread support among religious groups in 2015 and 2017. (The 2016 survey did not investigate this matter.)“What’s remarkable, I think, is how consistent these numbers are,” Dr. Jones said. “When you think of our polarized political environment, there are very few issues that you can say there’s bipartisan, cross-religious support for. This is an issue you can say that on.”The survey also examined support for small businesses’ ability to refuse service based on the owners’ religious beliefs. Researchers identified a sharp split between men and women on this topic. Nearly half of men and less than 40 percent of women surveyed supported refusals of service on religious grounds.A significant percentage of the individuals in the survey lived in 35 major metro areas.Though there have been other methods used to identify the cities in America with high percentages of L.G.B.T. people, the survey data also offered indications. With 10 percent of survey participants identifying as L.G.B.T., Seattle took first place. Portland, Ore., and Austin, Tex., were tied for second, with 9 percent each.Overall, about 5 percent of the 40,000 people surveyed identified as L.G.B.T., which was consistent with previous years, according to Dr. Jones.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — In the 116th Congress, if you’re a Democrat, you’re either a socialist, a baby killer or an anti-Semite.That, at least, is what Republicans want voters to think, as they seek to demonize Democrats well in advance of the 2020 elections by painting them as left-wing crazies who will destroy the American economy, murder newborn babies and turn a blind eye to bigotry against Jews.The unusually aggressive assault, which Republican officials and strategists outlined in interviews last week, is meant to strangle the new Democratic majority in its infancy. It was set in motion this month by President Trump, who used his State of the Union address to rail against “new calls to adopt socialism in our country” and mischaracterize legislation backed by Democrats in New York and Virginia as allowing “a baby to be ripped from the mother’s womb moments before birth.”Then last week, Republicans amped it up, seizing on a Twitter post by a freshman representative, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, which even some Democrats condemned as anti-Semitic, and ridiculing the “Green New Deal,” an ambitious economic stimulus plan unveiled by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a self-described democratic socialist. Suddenly even Jewish Democrats were abetting anti-Semitism and moderate Democrats in Republican districts were Trotskyites and Stalinists.“Socialism is the greatest vulnerability by far that the House Democrats have,” Representative Tom Emmer of Minnesota, the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said in an interview, adding that he had also instructed his team to spotlight “all the extreme wild ideas” that Democrats espouse, “on a daily basis, on an hourly basis if it’s available.”House Republicans have identified 55 Democrats they regard as vulnerable, including many freshmen. Some flipped Republican seats last year, some represent districts carried by Mr. Trump in 2016, and some are in districts held by Republicans until recently. Bruised by their losses last year, Republicans are determined to start earlier and be more aggressive on the offense in 2020, and are hoping to exploit the Democratic presidential candidates’ courtship of the left.An advertising offensive is already underway. The Congressional Leadership Fund, a political action committee affiliated with House Republican leaders, began running digital ads last week that link two freshmen who flipped Republican districts, Representatives Colin Allred of Texas and Antonio Delgado of New York, to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and her “radical Green New Deal assault on the American economy.”The spots are the first in what will be a national campaign, according to Zach Hunter, a spokesman for the fund. The stark ads, featuring stern-looking images of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, offer a preview of how Republicans intend to vilify her in much the same way they have vilified Speaker Nancy Pelosi, caricaturing her as a radical from San Francisco.Democrats see an insidious effort to use women and minorities, especially women of color, as the new symbols of the radical “other.” And they are calling out Republicans as hypocrites, noting that Mr. Trump and other Republicans trafficked in anti-Semitic tropes and racist dog whistles long before anyone noticed Ms. Omar’s Twitter feed.“I guess they used that argument to its end, and so they have to find someone new,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said in a brief interview. “And who else to use except folks like myself and other freshmen congresswomen? We’re least like them in every way possible, so I think it’s a potent symbol.”But Republicans like Mr. Emmer say they are simply repeating Democrats’ own words, and they have been aided by Democratic stumbles. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s team published an early draft of the Green New Deal — which has been backed by several top-tier Democratic presidential candidates — that contained phrases those candidates did not endorse, including a call for economic security for “all who are unable or unwilling to work.” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez deleted the draft from her website, but Republicans took it and ran.Representative Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the chairwoman of the House Republican Conference, called the plan — endorsed by 70 Democrats in the House and about a dozen in the Senate — “a fantasy” and insisted the erroneous draft be placed in the Congressional Record. Sean Hannity, the Fox News commentator, called it “a form of insanity.” The Republican National Committee issued a briefing paper headlined “The Democrats’ Burgeoning Love Affair With Socialism.”In the Senate, where five Democrats are already running for president, Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, announced he would force a vote on the measure, drawing howls from Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, who slammed the move as a “cynical stunt” intended solely to put Democrats, including the presidential candidates, on the spot. A vote in favor of the Green New Deal could help them court progressives in the primary vote, but hurt in a general election.“Democrats have handed Republicans this messaging on a silver platter,” said Andy Surabian, a Republican strategist and former Trump White House official, adding that he believed socialism and Democrats’ stance on abortion were more powerful lines of attack than anti-Semitism. “All these controversies dovetail perfectly with the president’s messaging at the State of the Union.”Democrats dismissed the messaging as par for the course.“We are not going to abandon socialist policies like Social Security — or is that ‘socialist security,’ is that what they call it?” Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, said wryly. “The bottom line is the president is in campaign mode — maybe he’s always in campaign mode — and I just expect a lot of this to be thrown over the transom.”Democrats say they intend to counter the offensive by talking about the issues they ran and won on: reducing health care costs and prescription drug prices, passing an infrastructure package and rooting out corruption in Washington.“We have an agenda to help families, and we have ideas,” said Representative Cheri Bustos of Illinois, the chairwoman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, who is among those being targeted. “Washington Republicans are set back now, and all they’re playing on is exaggerations and fear.”But Democrats must be careful not to let those exaggerations take hold. They are well aware that their path to keeping the majority runs through districts like Ms. Bustos’s, which the president carried in 2016.“Of course I can see them trying to drive a wedge between the people in our districts, the people who are in more moderate districts,” said Representative Josh Gottheimer, a centrist Democrat from New Jersey and a chairman of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus. “That’s why it’s really important that we make sure that we govern from the middle.”The hardball tactics have been especially evident in the Republican response to Ms. Omar’s tweet last week, and to the legislation adopted in New York, and proposed in Virginia, to loosen restrictions on abortions in the third trimester of pregnancy under certain conditions.Before he became embroiled in a controversy over blackface, Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia, a Democrat, gave Republicans an opening last month when he said during a radio interview about the bill that “a discussion would ensue between the physicians and the mother” in the case of an infant born with severe deformities.Mr. Northam’s office later said he was discussing medical treatment, not abortion, but Republicans, including Mr. Trump, accused him of promoting infanticide. House Republican leaders began gathering signatures to force a vote on legislation requiring doctors to provide care “when a child is born alive following an abortion or attempted abortion.”The National Republican Congressional Committee, meanwhile, began filling reporters’ inboxes with attacks targeted at centrist freshmen, with subject lines like “So we’re murdering newborns now?” and “Abortion extremists come to New Mexico,” referring to Representative Xochitl Torres Small.The committee has spent weeks lobbing charges of anti-Semitism at Ms. Omar and another freshman Democrat, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, both fierce critics of Israel. But after Democratic leaders forced Ms. Omar to apologize for insinuating on Twitter that American policy toward Israel was fueled by money, the committee expanded its campaign, suggesting that other Democrats — including Representative Elaine Luria of Virginia, who is Jewish — were somehow abetting an anti-Semite.Ms. Luria, a freshman and Navy veteran, led the effort to push the Democratic leadership to speak out about Ms. Omar’s tweet. Yet under an email with the subject line “Be a leader, Elaine,” the committee pressed Ms. Luria to demand Ms. Omar’s removal from the House Foreign Affairs Committee “instead of letting the anti-Semite spew hate without any repercussions.”Ms. Luria and her team were incensed. “Congresswoman Luria served for 20 years in the United States Navy, and, as a Jewish woman in America, she will not be lectured by Washington Republicans about anti-Semitism,” Ms. Luria’s chief of staff, Kathryn Sorenson, said in an email.Mr. Emmer defended the statement, saying the committee was not “going after” Ms. Luria but rather “criticizing her and some others for not calling for their colleagues’ removal from the Foreign Affairs Committee.” He said Democrats could expect more of the same in 2020, adding, “This is all about compare and contrast.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byletterA reader criticizes recent actions on the environment and health care.To the Editor:Re “Interior Nominee Helped Quash Pesticide Report” and “Move to Nullify Health Care Act Roils Democrats” (front page, March 27):The Republican Party is demonstrating once again that its priorities lie with industry, even when products put American lives at risk. The suppression by David Bernhardt, then the deputy interior secretary, of a report on pesticides and efforts by Republicans to repeal the Affordable Care Act demonstrate that their interests lie with their corporate backers, not with their constituents. If Republican lawmakers wanted to make policy decisions based on facts, why would they suppress a report that would help lawmakers determine the best way to protect public safety? Our representatives should be working to improve our lives, not to increase the profits of companies that make poisonous products.Edwin AndrewsMalden, Mass.Advertisement
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
AdvertisementSupported byPresident Trump’s red wall in the Senate cracks. A bit.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.In a rare display of spine, 12 Republican senators on Thursday defied their president and joined Democrats in passing a resolution to nullify President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the Mexican border. Having already zipped through the Democratic-controlled House, the legislation is on track to draw the first veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency. Then, unlikely to garner enough support to override such a veto, it is expected to die.Still, the Senate’s 59-to-41 vote is a big deal. In practical terms, it could fortify the multiple lawsuits pending against Mr. Trump’s absurd declaration, a faux emergency so nakedly political that even he admitted it was unnecessary.More important, the Senate Republicans’ rebuke of the president shows that his chronic contempt for democratic norms — and for the Constitution — has become too much to stomach for at least some in his party.Senator Mitt Romney, Republican of Utah, explained, “This is a vote for the Constitution and for the balance of powers that is at its core.”Shortly after the vote Thursday afternoon, Mr. Trump took to Twitter. “VETO!” he wrote.For the record, the Republican senators voting for the resolution (and against the president’s power grab) were, in addition to Mr. Romney: Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, Roy Blunt of Missouri, Susan Collins of Maine, Mike Lee of Utah, Jerry Moran of Kansas, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Rand Paul of Kentucky, Rob Portman of Ohio, Marco Rubio of Florida, Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania and Roger Wicker of Mississippi. It is notable that this brushback of the president came just one day after the Senate voted 54 to 46 to end American support for Saudi Arabia’s brutal, four-year-old military venture in Yemen. Seven Republicans crossed party lines to pass a bill designed to claw back Congress’s responsibility for declaring war. The measure is expected to pass the House as well, provoking a second presidential veto.In both cases, Mr. Trump lobbied Republicans, publicly and privately, to stand by him — if only to limit his margins of loss. He reportedly dangled funding promises in front of some members, even as he continued his Twitter taunts, including this Thursday gem: “A vote for today’s resolution by Republican Senators is a vote for Nancy Pelosi, Crime, and the Open Border Democrats!” But neither sticks nor carrots were enough to spare the president back-to-back humiliations.Senate Republicans were not exactly eager to cross Mr. Trump. In the lead-up to Thursday’s vote, members scrambled to avoid a confrontation. Mr. Lee put together a proposal to reform the National Emergencies Act. His bill, introduced Tuesday, would have automatically ended future declarations after 30 days, unless Congress voted to extend them. As an opening bid, the idea was worth debating, seeing as how the current law is clearly prone to abuse.But Mr. Lee was looking to strike a bargain in which Republicans would torpedo the resolution this week in exchange for Mr. Trump promising to back reform sometime soon — a plan both politically risky and morally lame. Considering the president’s untrustworthiness, lawmakers would have been taking a huge gamble that he wouldn’t renege on reform the second the resolution was no longer a threat.Mr. Lee’s proposed deal also sent the not-so-resolute message: We’ll ignore your flagrant overreach this time if you promise to behave in the future.Not that it mattered: The president spurned Mr. Lee’s offer Wednesday afternoon. A few hours later, the senator announced he would support the disapproval resolution — as he had in the vote on Yemen.The obvious, burning question is whether these votes are outliers — or a sign that Republican lawmakers are rethinking their blind loyalty to a president who routinely confuses public service with personal gratification.Either way, this week has provided welcome flashes of independence from at least a few Republican lawmakers.As for the rest of the Republican conference, it is increasingly, and depressingly, difficult to imagine what level of presidential outrage it would take to spur these lackeys to stand up for the integrity of their institution, much less the American people.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWilliam Weld has offered a glimmer of hope to NeverTrumpers. But many Republicans once opposed to the president are jumping on his 2020 bandwagon. By Liz MairMs. Mair is a Republican strategist. Does the announcement by William Weld, the former Republican governor of Massachusetts, that he’s exploring a primary challenge against President Trump offer new hope for the NeverTrump cause? The motley collection of neoconservatives, libertarians, moderate Republicans and social conservatives who couldn’t stomach Mr. Trump’s personal behavior is back in the headlines, if not in reality.But in most politically meaningful ways, the NeverTrump movement has disintegrated. It’s now the political equivalent of a doomed exotic species, attracting a lot of stares from bystanders, but no longer playing much of a role in the actual biosphere.As a Republican strategist and NeverTrumper myself, I speak from inside the belly of the beast. Mr. Weld’s announcement offers a glimmer, but I see little chance that conservatives disillusioned with President Trump will revive NeverTrump as an actual movement.President Trump has made the party his own, with a near 90 percent approval rating among Republicans. Before the 2018 midterms, many NeverTrump voters, donors and activists had already jumped off the Republican ship to independent or even Democratic galleons. So they may not get to vote in either the Republican or Democratic primary without re-registering. And now, as we head into the 2020 election season, some notable conservatives formerly opposed to Mr. Trump have decided to throw their support to him. The conservative writer and radio host Erick Erickson is a good example. “Some of my concerns about President Trump remain,” he wrote in a recent column. “But I also recognize that we cannot have the Trump administration policies without President Trump and there is much to like.”Senator Mike Lee of Utah, who was seen as a ringleader of an effort to block Mr. Trump’s nomination at the 2016 convention, will also help the president. He and Mr. Erickson both voted for the independent candidate Evan McMullin, and they are far from alone in now supporting President Trump.The bottom line for people like Mr. Erickson is this: Mr. Trump has terrible character flaws and has eroded norms and worsened our system of government. But Democrats seem to have responded to the election of Mr. Trump not by pushing forward sensible, moderate candidates who understand the fundamentals of government and policy but rather far-left legislators in Congress (like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Rashida Tlaib) and policy like the late-term-abortion laws in Virginia and New York.Mr. Trump may be a nutter with bad-to-nonexistent morals and ideas, but he has at least succeeded on policy goals that are important to people like Mr. Erickson. In his column, he noted that President Trump had “delivered on tax reform” as well as “regulatory rollbacks,” “undermining Obamacare” and “solid executive appointments, including to the judiciary.” Those things matter to lots of different types of conservatives, and some of them matter in particular to social conservatives. That leaves relatively few of us undecideds pacing the proverbial political mall, window shopping. Our efforts to affect the 2020 map might just be pointless: A lot of us live in states that neither have early primaries nor are likely to be in play in the general election. The only way to have an impact on the electoral map and ensure NeverTrump exerts serious, quantifiable political power is for all of its 2016 members to somehow get on the same page in terms of whom to support, and then collectively move to Iowa, New Hampshire and Florida. Short of that, our influence will be more subtle (campaign contributions, an endorsement, advice on debate technique). Ideally, what we do will help counteract the work done by others like Mr. Erickson.As things stand right now, I’m inclined to vote my conscience and back Mr. Weld. I voted for him when he ran on the Libertarian Party line in 2016. He had a solid fiscal conservative rating as governor. He’s more capable than Mr. Trump of doing the job of commander in chief. He is likable and funny, and I can see him working well with other world leaders.For the Democratic Party to have its best shot at retaking the White House, by grabbing not just swing voters in places like the Midwest but also some disillusioned Republican voters wherever it can, perhaps helping it win somewhere like Arizona, it needs to nominate someone at least perceived as more moderate than your average House Democrat and more levelheaded than the hate-tweet-happy Mr. Trump. It probably means its safest choice is Joe Biden, or if he doesn’t run, maybe Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., or Gov. Steve Bullock of Montana.If the Democratic Party can play it smart like that, NeverTrumpers might count for something this election cycle. But if it doesn’t, we will most likely carry on as the political version of the West African black rhino — active and occasionally visible until it dies off altogether or is permanently integrated into another subspecies in American political life.Liz Mair, who was a strategist for campaigns by Scott Walker, Roy Blunt, Rand Paul, Carly Fiorina and Rick Perry, is the founder and president of Mair Strategies.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byG.O.P. congressional leaders used tactics to minimize the president’s influence and maximize their own control over public policy.By Matthew GlassmanMr. Glassman is a senior fellow at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown.Donald Trump has a Congress problem. He can’t get Republicans to promote his policies. And when he forces the issue — as with his border wall — he can’t win their support.But most Americans don’t know that. After all, Republican legislators voted with the president well over 90 percent of the time during the 115th Congress. Record numbers of appellate judges were confirmed, and the president signed major tax legislation. Many observers have concluded that Mr. Trump dominates the Republican Party, and his loyal base holds congressional Republicans tautly in line.But discerning legislative influence is more difficult than it appears. Throughout the first two years of the Trump presidency, Republican leaders in Congress skillfully used a variety of tactics to minimize the president’s influence and maximize their own control over public policy.Critically, congressional Republicans have adopted strategies that make the public — and more important, his conservative base — think Mr. Trump is in command. To casual followers of political news, the visible evidence from congressional votes and news releases suggests a powerful president leading a loyal congressional party. In reality, Republican legislators have hidden their influence, purposefully disguising a weak president with little clout on Capitol Hill while also preserving party unity.In his 1960 book, “Presidential Power and the Modern Presidents,” the political scientist Richard Neustadt argued that presidential power is “the power to persuade.” Strong presidents have significant influence over public policy because they wield informal power, developing a reputation for getting their way and punishing those who impede their progress. Weak presidents — like Mr. Trump — fail to persuade, allowing competing political actors in Washington to block their goals and assert their own influence.Mr. Neustadt identified a second resource that aids in presidential persuasion: public prestige. Political actors in Washington may not fear the president, but they may think twice about standing in his way if they perceive the public response to doing so may hurt them.On this dimension, Mr. Trump appears to be stronger. His overall approval rating is very poor, but he is extremely popular among Republican voters. And his sizable conservative base is ready and willing to turn on elected Republicans in primary elections should they displease the president. The infrastructure of conservative media — Fox News, talk radio — strongly supports (and influences) Mr. Trump, augmenting this public power. Mr. Trump may not have much ability to sway Democrats, but Republican officials credibly fear crossing him.Nevertheless, congressional Republicans have found a solution to this challenge: agenda-setting. Political power is not simply the ability to influence the positions citizens or lawmakers take on issues, but also the ability to control what issues are discussed and voted on.Throughout the last Congress, Republican leaders simply declined to take up legislation that reflected the priority of the president but not their own. There were no votes on immigration restrictions or funding for a border wall, protectionist trade legislation or infrastructure.The Trump budget proposals for the 2017 and 2018 fiscal years requested deep cuts in nondefense discretionary spending. Congressional Republicans quietly buried them and delivered bills both years that increased nondefense spending.Such “negative” agenda-setting leaves little trace; without a vote, it becomes difficult for opponents or voters to identify or understand what happened. President Trump’s priorities weren’t voted down in the House or the Senate; they were just never considered.Agenda-setting also provides congressional leaders “positive” power to set legislative priorities. Mr. Trump has famously shown little interest in the details of policy, and Republican leaders in Washington easily convinced him to accept as his priorities the party’s orthodox issues of Affordable Care Act repeal and tax cuts during his first year in office.By setting the agenda and having the president sign on, Republican legislators controlled policy while sharing the position of the president. When Republicans held a White House celebration after passing tax legislation, Mr. Trump claimed credit, and legislators publicly praised the “Trump” tax bill, and the president himself.This trade-off, in which orthodox Republicans get policy control and Mr. Trump gets the glory, is also apparent in the nominations of judges and executive branch officials. The president was quite successful in having judicial nominees confirmed. But virtually all of his confirmed judges have been standard conservatives; likewise, his successful executive branch appointments much more reflect Republican priorities than his own.By privately influencing Mr. Trump to nominate people who reflect Republican priorities, congressional leaders not only win substantively, but the president gets to show off a perfect record of confirmations on the Senate floor, and a high rate of Republican support for his nominees.Despite this, Mr. Trump has had an unusually large number of nominees rejected by the Senate, many of whom were put forth without previous input from congressional leaders. But this, too, has been done less visibly, with candidates withdrawing or being defeated in committee rather than being rejected in actual votes on the Senate floor.The logic of agenda-setting also explains the reticence of congressional Republicans to conduct meaningful oversight of Mr. Trump or his administration. Full-scale legitimate investigations require visible agenda-setting. They cannot be accomplished by omission or in private.Negative and positive agenda-setting served the Republican policy agenda well during the first two years of the Trump administration. In December, however, in backing out of a Republican-constructed Senate deal that would have kept the government open, the president forcefully asserted his own legislative agenda-setting.Given the power of the veto as a presidential tool of negative agenda-setting, exasperated Republican senators had little choice but to allow Mr. Trump to take control of the border wall negotiations.Congressional leaders, however, continued to use subtle agenda-setting tactics. The majority leader, Mitch McConnell, became largely absent from the public debate, declining to take part in post-negotiation news conferences at the White House and flatly declaring he would not bring legislation to the Senate floor until the president and Democratic leaders had reached a deal that could pass — and Republicans would not have to visibly cross the president in difficult public votes.These tactics yielded impressive results. While a majority of Americans blamed Mr. Trump for the partial government shutdown, very few blamed congressional Republicans. The G.O.P. leaders have managed to not get the blame for the shutdown or get blamed by the base for abandoning the president.Now that Democrats control the House, Republican leaders may find it more difficult to limit the president’s legislative role. Mr. Trump will be less likely to accept a mostly theatric role in interparty negotiations and, as shown in the shutdown, may be more interested than congressional Republicans in public confrontation.This bodes poorly for legislative prospects in the new Congress. In our current partisan environment, the visible engagement of the president in the legislative process tends to polarize debate on even seemingly nonpartisan issues. Republican leaders know they’ve lost much of their policymaking capacity. They may soon realize they also can no longer mask the weakness of Mr. Trump.Matthew Glassman (@MattGlassman312) is a senior fellow at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan Blinder and Michael WinesRALEIGH, N.C. — Republican politicians across the country have for years railed against the threat of voter fraud. Some have made unproven claims about how rampant it has become in order to pass voter ID laws and open sweeping investigations. The sanctity of the vote, they have said, must be protected at all costs.But when a hard-fought congressional election in North Carolina — in which a Republican candidate appeared to narrowly beat his Democratic opponent — was overturned this week because of election fraud by a Republican political operative, the party was measured, and largely muted, in its response.The state party chairman, Robin Hayes, issued a statement after officials ordered a new election calling the affair “a tremendously difficult situation for all involved.” National Republicans have been mostly mum. President Trump, who has made election fraud one of the hallmarks of his administration, was quiet on Twitter, although on Friday, facing reporters at the Oval Office, he condemned fraud — “all of it, and that includes North Carolina.”Mark Harris, the Republican nominee, had eked out a 905-vote lead over Dan McCready. But the North Carolina Board of Elections refused to certify Mr. Harris as the winner and opened an investigation into irregularities. This week, the five-member board, made up of Republicans and Democrats, convened an evidentiary hearing in Raleigh at which witnesses described a voter-turnout effort that relied on the rogue collection of absentee ballots.In several hours of testimony on Thursday, after his campaign acknowledged that it had withheld damning records from the board, Mr. Harris denied wrongdoing but also appeared to mislead regulators. He then surprised everyone by abandoning his claim to the Ninth Congressional District seat, which covers part of Charlotte and much of southeastern North Carolina.Witnesses detailed how people working for a Harris campaign operative, L. McCrae Dowless Jr., had filled out parts of some absentee ballots and improperly collected others. On Friday, Lorrin Freeman, the district attorney in Wake County, said she could seek charges within weeks against Mr. Dowless and some of the people he hired.“Obviously, it’s within the province of the grand jury as to whether they will return indictments,” Ms. Freeman said. “But do I anticipate there will be a criminal prosecution going forward? I do.”State Republicans, who over the past few years have tightened voting laws and had fought to preserve Mr. Harris’s victory, were far less vociferous in denouncing voter fraud than they have been in the past.That stands in marked contrast to 2016, when the state’s Republicans filed many complaints and claimed for a month that Roy Cooper, the Democrat who was elected governor that year, should not be seated because rampant fraud had enabled his victory. The charge proved baseless.On Friday, State Senator Phil Berger, the president pro tempore of the North Carolina Senate and among the most powerful Republicans in Raleigh, said Mr. Harris should have heeded warnings that Mr. Dowless could not be trusted.“If you failed to take notice of the things that are there to see and the things that you’re hearing that are repeated by people that you ought to trust, I think you deserve a fair amount of criticism,” he said.Mr. Berger, who said he had been surprised by Mr. Harris’s decision to ask the elections board to order a new election, did not say whether Mr. Harris should run again. (In an interview, Mr. McCready said on Friday he would run in the new election, which has not been scheduled.)“I think there was enough going on to create questions, and the results were close enough where we just needed to clean this out and start over,” Mr. Berger said in an interview at the Legislative Building.Mr. Berger, who helped craft a voter ID law that a federal appeals court later said contained provisions that targeted “African-Americans with almost surgical precision,” said that he expected the Ninth District case to lead to new discussions about how to combat fraud in North Carolina.Among Mr. Harris’s supporters, Tami Fitzgerald, the executive director of the North Carolina Values Coalition, a group that works with pastors throughout the state and has close ties to Mr. Harris, would not say whether fraud had taken place in the Ninth District. Instead, she called the board’s unanimous decision a “stolen victory.”A congressional election has not been redone in more than 40 years, and doing so because of fraud is almost unheard of. But there have been ample causes for suspicion — Lyndon B. Johnson’s first Senate victory foremost among them — that illegal votes have been cast for candidates who won.The National Republican Congressional Committee, which organizes and finances the party’s House strategy, used the debacle in North Carolina to demand that Democrats support a national ban on the collection of absentee ballots — a practice that is legal in many states but not in North Carolina.Prosecutors in the Trump administration have been conducting a high-profile investigation in North Carolina for months to find noncitizens who cast illegal ballots, many of them in apparent ignorance of the law. But although the state elections board sent Justice Department officials evidence of absentee-ballot fraud by Mr. Dowless as early as January 2017, they took no action before last November’s House election, and it is unclear whether they are investigating the matter.In Oval Office remarks to reporters on Friday, Mr. Trump condemned voter fraud throughout the country, falsely claiming “they found a million fraudulent votes” in California, and calling the 2018 vote count in Florida a “catastrophe” because vote totals for Republican candidates decreased during recounts.But Mr. Trump said he looked forward to a final report on the disputed election in that state.Indeed, no one has been more vocal about the evils of rigged votes than Mr. Trump, who has repeatedly made the false claim that the 2016 election, in which he lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton, was rife with Democratic fraud.And shortly before the midterms, when Democrats flipped the House, Mr. Trump said on Twitter that “all levels of government and Law Enforcement are watching carefully for VOTER FRAUD.”“Cheat at your own peril,” he warned.The president’s obsession led him to create a presidential commission charged with reining in voter fraud. Led by the Kansas secretary of state at the time, Kris Kobach, the panel sought voter data from all 50 states in an effort to prove the president’s theory of massive illegal voting. But the commission was disbanded after election officials from both parties refused to hand over the data and critics filed multiple lawsuits challenging its conduct.Mr. Kobach, who built his political career on thinly sourced allegations of unchecked illegal voting by noncitizens, said in an interview on Friday that it “is never appropriate for either side of the political debate to be silent about voter fraud.”“People who downplay it say it’s just a small percentage of the total vote, but that argument is meaningless in a close race,” he said.In a column on Breitbart News, Mr. Kobach suggested that the case was a comeuppance for Democrats and voting-rights advocates who oppose the stringent controls on voting that Republicans have enacted for a decade or more. But those restrictions, limiting who can vote and how ballots are cast, only shield elections from cheating by individual voters, a kind of fraud that experts say is exceptionally rare.The party has given scant attention to the more frequent kind of election fraud — the inside-job schemes in which campaigns or election officials manufacture fake votes and destroy their opponents’ real ones — that appears to have taken place in the Ninth District race. Absentee ballots are especially susceptible to manipulation.On Friday, Mr. Berger, the Republican state senator, resisted suggestions that his party had ignored the fraud potential and noted that state law already banned the misconduct outlined at the hearing this week. But he said, “I think it’s clear that something needs to be done if there’s a reasonable thing that can be done.”Alan Blinder reported from Raleigh and Michael Wines reported from Washington. Michael Shear and Alex Burns contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]Larry Hogan is a guy who has spent a whole lot of time talking about running for president.But none of it, he says, is his idea.In recent weeks, Mr. Hogan, the Republican governor of deeply blue Maryland, has become the avatar of the G.O.P.’s “Never Trump” faction, carefully positioning himself as the reluctant savior ready to step in for his party should a big bombshell drop.Mr. Hogan is a popular politician with an interesting — and perhaps prescient — personal story: His father, as a member of the House Judiciary Committee, was the very first Republican to come out for President Richard M. Nixon’s impeachment, and was the only congressional Republican to vote for all three articles of impeachment.Mr. Hogan says he had never given much thought to being president before he was approached by prominent Trump critics like William Kristol, a leader of the motley crew of moderate Republicans, libertarians and foreign policy hawks who make up the Never Trump movement. “No interest, no thought, no desire, no plans,” he told me and my colleague Alex Burns in an interview last week.“I guess I just left the door open, saying, ‘You never say never,’” he said. “I don’t know what’s going to happen in the next several months.”He was in Iowa today for a National Governors Association event. A trip to New Hampshire later this spring is being considered.Mr. Hogan is right: A lot can happen in the next few months, particularly given the news today that the House Judiciary Committee requested documents from 81 agencies, individuals and companies tied to the president, including his sons and son-in-law, Jared Kushner.Former Gov. John Kasich and former Senator Jeff Flake have talked about challenging the president, and at least one potential opponent is nearly in the race already — former Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts, who started an exploratory committee last month.But there are a few key facts to remember when you hear Republicans floating the idea:1. No sitting president in the modern era has been successfully unseated in a primary.2. Mr. Trump is still really, really popular among Republicans. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released over the weekend found that nearly 90 percent of Republicans approve of the president.3. Despite the best efforts of the Never Trump movement, the party establishment — the national committee, members of Congress and party activists — is firmly behind Mr. Trump.“They have the right to jump in and lose. They’ll lose horribly,” said the Republican National Committee chairwoman, Ronna Romney McDaniel, at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference this past weekend. “Have at it. Go ahead. Waste your money, waste your time and go ahead and lose.”That’s not to say a primary race would have no effect on Mr. Trump: Strong primary challenges contributed to the general election defeats of Presidents Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter and George Bush.But a strong challenge — meaning one that has a chance of actual success — is pretty unlikely.Irrespective of the president, both Mr. Hogan and Mr. Weld would most likely face a serious uphill climb to win over Republican voters, given their differences with much of the base. Mr. Kasich failed to win any state but his own when he ran for president in 2016 as a more moderate voice.In our interview, Mr. Hogan criticized Republicans in Congress for having tried to repeal the Affordable Care Act without proposing a suitable alternative. He said that he believed Roe v. Wade, which made abortion legal nationwide, had been correctly decided. And he declined to express any personal view of whether the Senate had been right to confirm Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, a vote that awarded Republicans control of the Supreme Court for a generation.For his part, Mr. Hogan, a popular governor who won with cross-party support, says he fears the current administration is “shrinking” the party’s base, leaving Republicans at a serious disadvantage in their efforts to “reach a wider audience and to not alienate people and not to be as divisive.”He may be right. But that’s not an argument likely to win over Republican voters.Just ask Mr. Kasich.____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________If you’re a regular reader of this newsletter, you know we love dumping on early primary polls. At most, they are a decent gauge of name recognition — a metric that will quickly shift as candidates campaign.So we were really excited to see this far more enlightening question in the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released over the weekend. The survey left off the names and asked about characteristics — say, “a candidate who is a woman” — as a way of testing voter biases.The results held some good news for the historically diverse Democratic field. Only 10 percent expressed reservations with an African-American candidate and 14 percent with a female candidate. Comfort with a gay or lesbian candidate surged to 68 percent, up from 43 percent in 2006.But the biggest takeaway could be bad news for a candidate who looks awfully like Bernie Sanders.Sixty-two percent of voters said they were uncomfortable backing a candidate older than age 75. Seventy-one percent expressed reservations with a socialist.Hmmm … I happen to know an aging socialist who gave a big campaign speech in Brooklyn over the weekend.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________• Houses lay shredded and entire neighborhoods flattened in the wake of Sunday’s tornadoes in Alabama. At least 23 people are dead, and several are still unaccounted for.• The Académie Française — the official guardian of the French language — is so exclusive that most of France’s greatest writers never made it in. Now, four coveted lifetime seats are open.• We are living in a brave new world of high-tech veggie burgers. (Some even bleed!) But are they good for the environment? How We Get to Next investigates.____________________R.I.P. Dylan McKay … that is, Luke Perry. Riverdale will not be the same without you._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byHis populist attacks on the priorities of the “ruling class” have set off a maelstrom.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.Competing notions of American national identity are coming to dominate American politics.On Jan. 2, a searing Tucker Carlson monologue on Fox News resonated across every corner of the conservative movement.“The goal for America is both simpler and more elusive than mere prosperity,” Carlson told his audience. “Dignity. Purpose. Self-control. Independence. Above all, deep relationships with other people.”President Trump is one of the most dedicated Fox viewers in the country. Carlson went on:Our leaders don’t care. We are ruled by mercenaries who feel no long-term obligation to the people they rule. They’re day traders. Substitute teachers. They’re just passing through. They have no skin in this game, and it shows. They can’t solve our problems. They don’t even bother to understand our problems.Carlson, who is in a ratings race with both his Fox colleague Sean Hannity and MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow, argued that many conservatives have scant understanding of the adversity faced by members of the working and lower middle class in America:The idea that families are being crushed by market forces seems never to occur to them. They refuse to consider it. Questioning markets feels like apostasy. Both sides miss the obvious point: Culture and economics are inseparably intertwined. Certain economic systems allow families to thrive. Thriving families make market economies possible.Carlson pointed specifically to problems faced by rural white America, the crucial base of Republican voters: “Stunning out of wedlock birthrates. High male unemployment. A terrifying drug epidemic.” How, Carlson asked, “did this happen?” You’d think our ruling class would be interested in knowing the answer. But mostly they’re not. They don’t have to be interested. It’s easier to import foreign labor to take the place of native-born Americans who are slipping behind.Despite this failing of conservatism, Carlson contended that only the Republican Party can lead the country back to salvation:There’s no option at this point. But first, Republican leaders will have to acknowledge that market capitalism is not a religion. Market capitalism is a tool, like a staple gun or a toaster. You’d have to be a fool to worship it. Our system was created by human beings for the benefit of human beings. We do not exist to serve markets. Just the opposite. Any economic system that weakens and destroys families is not worth having. A system like that is the enemy of a healthy society.The Carlson monologue became an extended subject of debate, which my Times colleague Ross Douthat also examined. For example, in “The Right Should Reject Tucker Carlson’s Victimhood Populism,” David French, a senior writer at National Review, argued that “it is still true that your choices are far more important to your success than any government program or the actions of any nefarious banker or any malicious feminist.”“If an obscure senator gave this speech, he’d be famous overnight,” Kyle Smith, a critic at large for National Review, wrote the next day. “Carlson scores some major points, and like most great speeches this one can’t easily be dismissed as either left or right-wing.”Carlson touched nerves well outside conservative circles. I asked Dean Baker, co-founder of the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research, for his response to the monologue. He replied: “It’s a bit scary to me how much of this I agree with.” Baker quibbled with some minor points, butignoring these off the mark comments, he is absolutely right that the leadership of both parties has largely embraced an agenda that serves the rich with little concern for average workers.In addition to Carlson, one of the most engaged critics of the Republican establishment is Oren Cass, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute and the author of “The Once and Future Worker.”In his book, Cass faults both parties, but his condemnation of the Democratic Party is far harsher than his critique of the Republican Party:Republicans have generally trusted that free markets will benefit all participants, prized the higher output associated with an ‘efficient’ outcome, and expressed skepticism that political actors could identify and pursue better outcomes, even if any existed. Their labor-market policy could best be described as one of benign neglect.Democrats, in contrast,can sound committed to a more worker-centric model of growth, but rather than trusting the market too much, they trample it. The party’s actual agenda centers on the interests advanced by its coalition of labor unions, environmentalists, and identity groups. Its policies rely on an expectation that government mandates and programs will deliver what the market does not. This agenda inserts countless regulatory wedges that aim to improve the conditions of employment but in the process raise its cost, driving apart the players that the market is attempting to connect.In a Salon review of “The Once and Future Worker,” Samuel Hammond, director of welfare policy at the libertarian Niskanen Center — a Washington a think tank I described last week — writes:Indeed, far from the usual conservative manifesto, ‘The Once and Future Worker,’ is a scathing critique of globalization, open immigration, and the commoditization of labor — forces which Cass believes have ransacked working class fortunes across three decades of neoliberal hegemony.Cass is eager to place himself at the disposal of both parties. He was one of 13 ideologically ambidextrous authors of a joint Brookings-American Enterprise Institute report, “Work, Skills, Community: Restoring Opportunity for the Working Class.” The November 2018 study pointed to areas of concord between segments of the right and the left.The 13 authors found common ground on a set of proposals that call for both more spending and tougher work requirements. These proposals include expanding the earned-income tax credit to cover childless workers, including experimenting with a new wage subsidy; getting recipients of government subsidies back to work, including beneficiaries of means-tested government programs; and enlarging eligibility for the child and dependent care tax credit.While it is possible, in theory, that Carlson and Cass could support Democratic candidates, they sharply disagree with the Democratic Party on the highly salient issue of immigration.In his book, Cass writes:The United States should limit increases in its supply of unskilled immigrant labor. This new approach would require first and foremost that criteria for allowing entrance into the country emphasize education level — attainment of a college degree, in particular.In the case of undocumented immigrants, Cass’s policy would be to “require unskilled illegal immigrants to leave.”Carlson is more extreme. On Dec. 4, Carlson told viewers that “a new analysis of census data shows that sixty-three percent of noncitizens in the U.S. receive some kind of welfare benefits,” before adding:Every night, hundreds of thousands of our citizens, Americans, sleep outdoors on the street, they’re homeless. The country’s middle class is shrinking and dying younger. The third year in a row. Again, these are American citizens. Some of them probably think they should have first dibs on help from the government, but they’re not getting it.Later that month, Carlson escalated his claim that immigration was too costly for Americans:It’s indefensible, so nobody even tries to defend it. Instead, our leaders demand that you shut up and accept this. We have a moral obligation to admit the world’s poor, they tell us, even if it makes our own country poor and dirtier and more divided.These comments proved highly controversial, to say the least. According to Business Insider, 16 companies stopped advertising on “The Tucker Carlson Show.”Michael Massing, a New York-based writer who often reports on the intersection of media and politics, watched Carlson for several nights after the January monologue in an attempt to assess where Carlson really stood. In a Feb. 2 article in the Guardian, Massing wrote:Overall, his show continues to transmit Fox’s toxic blend of race-baiting and reality distortion, through which it has done so much to poison the American mind. What, then, to make of Carlson? Is he a cynic? A hypocrite? A headlong pursuer of ratings? Perhaps he’s best described as a charter member of the same ruling class that in his monologue he indicted for working so intently to divide and confuse the American people.In addition to the discrete conservative factions Cass and Carlson represent, there is another dissident wing of conservatism, represented by the Niskanen Center, which attempts to appeal to moderates and centrists of both parties.“Working within the broad and diverse intellectual tradition of liberalism, we are fashioning a new synthesis that closes the rift within that tradition that emerged over the question of socialism,” Brink Lindsey, the center’s vice president for policy, wrote in an essay seeking to explain the broad goals of the organization.Lindsey, in contrast to Cass, is far more critical of the contemporary right than of the left.Over the course of the 21st century, the conservative movement, and with it the Republican Party, has fallen ever more deeply under the sway of an illiberal and nihilistic populism — illiberal in its crude exploitation of religious, racial, and cultural divisions; nihilistic in its blithe indifference to governance and the established norms and institutions of representative self-government. This malignant development made possible the nomination and election of Donald Trump, whose two years in power have only accelerated conservatism’s and the GOP’s descent into the intellectual and moral gutter.Despite his severe view of the Republican Party, Lindsey contends that the goal of the Niskanen think tank is the “reimagining of the center-right”:It is our goal to make the case for a principled center-right in American politics today that is distinctly different from either movement conservatism or its degenerate, populist offshoot.One question, of course is, what kind of policy options a center-right think tank can offer to disaffected voters on matters involving race and immigration, subjects that help drive the very polarization they regret.One of Tucker Carlson’s own primary concerns is immigration — and, as a likely subtext, race.Carlson argues that capitalism is “not a religion but a tool like a toaster or staple gun.” He is focusing attention, in fact, on the godless capitalism that Will Wilkinson of the Niskanen Center, described in “How Godless Capitalism Made America Multicultural” — a problem that Wilkinson correctly points out affects “all wealthy, liberal-democratic countries.”Wilkinson explains:The project of fashioning an ethnoreligious American identity has always been in conflict with a dominant and defining American impulse: to get rich. The United States has always been a distinctly commercial republic with expansionary, imperial impulses. High demand for workers and settlers led early on to a variegated population that encouraged the idea, largely traceable to Tom Paine, that American national identity is civic and ideological rather than racial and ethnic.Contemporary political polarization reflects the intensification of the endless struggle to integrate America and, more recently, to assimilate millions of newcomers, some legal, some not.Wilkinson addresses this conundrum:Assimilation is an issue not because it isn’t happening, but because it is. The issue is that the post-1968 immigrants and their progeny are here at all. And their successful assimilation means that American culture, and American national identity, has already been updated and transformed.This process can be very hard for some people, especially white voters over 50 (a strong Trump constituency) to accept:Swift and dramatic cultural changes can leave us with the baffled feeling that the soil in which we laid down roots has somehow become foreign. Older people who have largely lost the capacity to easily assimilate to a new culture can feel that the rug has been pulled out from under them.The result, according to Wilkinson, to whom I will give the last word, is thatrapid cultural change can make a truly common national identity hard to come by, if not impossible. It’s not clear to me how important it is to have one. But it does seem that a badly bifurcated cultural self-understanding can have very dramatic and potentially dangerous political consequences. David Cameron imperiled the integrity of the entire European Union by fundamentally misunderstanding the facts about the evolution of British national identity and putting it up for a vote. Donald Trump, you may have noticed, has called for a referendum on American national identity, and he’s getting one.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bylettersOne reader terms the vote to overturn the emergency declaration just “a symbolic slap on the wrist,” while another calls those who sided with the president “spineless.” To the Editor:Re “12 G.O.P. Senators Defect to Block Emergency Move” (front page, March 15):Perhaps, given the times, it is remarkable that 12 Republican senators defied President Trump’s trampling on the separation of powers by voting to block his national emergency declaration over border wall funding. But more remarkable is that 41 Republicans did not join them.It is spineless to fail to challenge this president on a blatant, authoritarian-type power grab that defies the Constitution that the senators have sworn to uphold. It is craven to cast a vote out of fear that Mr. Trump will seek revenge by suggesting that someone else ought to hold your Senate seat if you do not bend to his will. And yet, this is what they did.So while we give a shout-out to those 12 Republican senators who made the principled call, let us ponder what it says about the ones who did not.Felicia MassarskyAtlantic CityTo the Editor:Re “Cracks in the Senate’s Red Wall” (editorial, March 15):Let us not overreact to this action by a handful of Republican senators. It is not nearly time to suggest Mr. Trump’s unfettered desecration of our democracy is nearing a conclusion. What Mr. Trump did was blatantly defy the will of Congress in his declaration of a national emergency. It was not the policy but merely the procedure, the stripping of the power of Congress to control the purse strings, that was the precipitating cause for this mini-revolt.But fundamentally this was little but a symbolic slap on the wrist, quickly undone by presidential veto. And life will quickly return to the normal that we have unfortunately come to know.There will be no talk, at least no serious talk, of Republicans joining in a call for impeachment. There has been no growing of a backbone, no declaration that this is an irreparable bridge too far. It is a welcome moment when there is even a hint of something other than pure capitulation to Mr. Trump’s whims and tantrums. But unless and until he puts a crown on and announces he is now king, there will be no Republican mutiny. Just the occasional reminder that some in his party will not permit the president to cast all their votes for them.Robert S. NussbaumFort Lee, N.J. Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. (Note: The evening edition of On Politics With Lisa Lerer is off today for the Presidents’ Day holiday.)_____________________• President Trump mounted one of the most serious executive branch challenges to congressional authority in decades, circumventing Congress with an emergency declaration. The move left Senate Republicans sharply divided, and it remains to be seen whether they will act collectively to try to stop it.• Senator Lindsey Graham, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, vowed to investigate whether top officials at the Justice Department and the F.B.I. had plotted an “attempted bureaucratic coup” to remove Mr. Trump from office.• Bernie Sanders struggled with black voters in 2016, in part because of turmoil between top aides and African-American staffers. Winning the crucial black vote in the diverse 2020 field could prove even harder.• Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany delivered a strong rejoinder to American demands that European allies pull out of the Iran nuclear deal. She said the deal was the best way of influencing Iranian behavior on a range of non-nuclear issues, including missile development and terrorism.• The rift between Europe and the Trump administration is now open, angry and concrete, diplomats and analysts say. Said one senior German official: “No one any longer believes that Trump cares about the views or interests of the allies. It’s broken.”• Heather Nauert, Mr. Trump’s pick to serve as ambassador to the United Nations, withdrew from consideration because she had a nanny without a proper work visa, according to people familiar with the process.• Mr. Trump has been telling audiences that President Barack Obama was on the verge of war with North Korea. Mr. Obama’s former aides say that’s entirely fiction.• The decision by Amazon this past week to abandon its planned headquarters in New York City tapped into one of the major themes of left-wing Democrats: that giant corporations must be held to account for wage inequality, corporate greed and middle-class stagnation.• In the first campaign trip of her presidential run, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota emphasized her deep Midwestern roots, her knowledge of rural America and her record of bipartisanship, while drawing sharp contrasts with Mr. Trump on issues like climate change and immigration.• At least 13 states are flouting a requirement for Medicaid to cover abortion-inducing pills, and one state, South Dakota, has for 25 years failed to provide the required coverage for abortion in cases of rape or incest, congressional investigators have found.• Anthony D. Weiner, the disgraced former New York congressman who exchanged lewd texts with a teenager, has been released from a federal prison in Massachusetts and moved to a re-entry center in Brooklyn to serve out the remainder of his sentence._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe young in particular are slipping away.By Sean McElwee, Brian F. Schaffner, Jesse H. Rhodes and Bernard L. FragaThe authors are political data experts.Ever since Donald Trump’s upset victory over Hillary Clinton in 2016, much of the media attention has been on how Democrats need to reconsider their strategy for winning voters in future elections, particularly Obama-to-Trump voters. But the results of the 2018 midterm elections suggest that Republicans have some soul-searching to do as well.They lost the popular vote in six of the last seven presidential elections and suffered battering losses in the House in 2018. Republican strategists must grapple with how to keep their party viable nationally, and our data suggests that Trumpism may continue to hurt them in the future.It has flown under the radar a bit, masked perhaps by the switch of millions of Barack Obama’s voters into Mr. Trump’s column, but in 2016 Mr. Trump did not receive support from a large segment of voters who pulled the lever for Mitt Romney in 2012. In fact, our data shows that 5 percent of Romney 2012 voters stayed home in 2016, while another 5 percent voted for Mrs. Clinton. These voters tended to be female, nonwhite, younger and more highly educated — the very voters Republicans feared would be alienated by a Trump victory when he was seeking the party’s nomination.Most strikingly, one-third of 2012 Romney voters who were under 40 in 2016 did not vote for Mr. Trump, but rather stayed home, voted for Mrs. Clinton or voted for a third-party candidate. Among the under-40 Romney voters who supported Mr. Trump in 2016, 16 percent appear to have defected from the party to vote for a Democratic House candidate in 2018. Of course, we don’t know how they will vote in 2020, but what this means is that in the past two elections Republicans may have lost more than 40 percent of Romney voters born after 1976.Republican House candidates performed worse among 18- to 39-year-olds than they have in decades. The voters Mr. Trump and his party lost in 2016 and 2018 represent the future of American politics. If the Republican Party becomes the party of the past — that is, of aging white men with less education — it could make winning elections increasingly difficult.The younger the voter, the more likely they were to defect from the Republican Party.2016 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION2018 HOUSE ELECTIONSPercentage of Trump voters who did not vote for Republicans.Percentage of 2012 Romney voters, by age, who did not vote for Trump.AGE IN 2016:AGE IN 2018:7%7%8789DEFECTED FROM G.O.P.78797771067699115759101449471624373920372927422024222016 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION2018 HOUSE ELECTIONSPercentage of 2012 Romney voters, by age, who did not vote for Trump.Percentage of Trump voters who did not vote for Republicans.AGE IN2016:AGE IN2018:7%7%8789DEFECTED FROM G.O.P.7879777106769911575910144947162437392037292742202422By The New York Times | Source: analysis of the 2016-18 Cooperative Congressional Election Study by Sean McElwee, Brian F. Schaffner, Jesse H. Rhodes and Bernard L. FragaTo explore the characteristics and attitudes of these voters, we used data from the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, a large survey with a sample of more than 64,000 adults. We focus on three groups in this essay: Romney-to-Trump voters, Romney-to-Clinton voters and Romney-to-nonvoters. (We used validated voter turnout data rather than self-reported turnout, which tends to overstate actual voter participation.) Four primary characteristics distinguished deserters from the 2012 Romney coalition: gender, race, level of education and age.Defectors were disproportionately women; 63 percent of Romney-to-Clinton voters were female compared with 46 percent of Romney-to-Trump voters. Romney-to-nonvoters were 54 percent female.Perhaps unsurprisingly, given Mr. Trump’s rhetoric, Mr. Trump shed a large share of 2012 Romney voters of color — precisely the type of voters that Republicans have been struggling to attract for some time. Among Romney-to-Trump voters, 91 percent were white (the breakdown for Romney-to-nonvoters was very similar, with 89 percent white). However, among Romney-to-Clinton voters, the nonwhite share was twice as large, 20 percent.Mr. Trump also lost support from Romney-supporting college-educated voters. While only one in four Romney-to-Trump voters had a college degree, 39 percent of Romney-to-Clinton voters did, and 31 percent of Romney-to-nonvoters were college-educated.Crucially, the Trump campaign alienated a lot of younger-to-middle-aged voters who had turned out for Mr. Romney in 2012. Four percent of Romney-to-Trump voters were under 30 years old in 2016. In contrast, 18 percent of Romney-to-Clinton voters were under 30, as were 21 percent of Romney-to-nonvoters. Each of these patterns should raise red flags for Republicans, even more so after 18- to 29-year-olds went from supporting Mrs. Clinton by a 25-point margin in 2016 to supporting House Democrats by a 44-point margin in 2018, according to the voter file firm Catalist. But it is the graying of the Republican coalition that is arguably the biggest threat to the party’s prospects. It is true that on average, older people are more reliable voters than younger people. But the partisan identities and voting behaviors that people adopt early in the life cycle tend to stick, becoming routines that people carry on for the remainder of their lives. In addition, according to Data for Progress research, 30 percent of millennial Republicans prefer the Republican Party over Mr. Trump “somewhat” or “strongly,” while 65 percent prefer Mr. Trump “somewhat” or “strongly” (compared with 80 percent of boomer Republicans and 81 percent of so-called silent Republicans).Can Republicans solve their demographic problem? A look at issue preferences indicates wooing back defectors will be difficult. On crucial issues facing the country, Romney-to-Clinton voters, Romney-to-nonvoters and Americans over all hold positions that are relatively far from Romney-to-Trump voters.Take two issues that have become central to Mr. Trump’s presidency: immigration and trade. Seventy-four percent of Romney-to-Trump voters support deporting undocumented immigrants, but only 35 percent of Romney-to-Clinton voters (and 62 percent of Romney-to-nonvoters) do. The average citizen is in between Romney-to-Clinton voters and Romney-to-nonvoters, with 44 percent supporting deportation.Similarly, while 27 percent of Romney-to-Trump voters supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership, 63 percent of Romney-to-Clinton voters (and 53 percent of Romney-to-nonvoters) did. In short, the 2012 Romney voters who did not vote for Mr. Trump have views that are pretty distant from the emerging Republican consensus that drove Mr. Trump’s victory and has been a central component of his presidency.Mr. Trump may have won the White House with a thin margin built on winning over just enough Obama voters in the right places. But this victory may ultimately have come at the expense of the Republican Party’s long-term electoral prospects. To win some of the Romney coalition back, Republicans would need to moderate their stances on some key issues, like immigration and trade, and, of course, exactly the opposite is happening. Republican strategists will continue to work to expand on Mr. Trump’s success, but their task will get harder and harder if Mr. Trump continues to move the party away from public opinion. Sean McElwee (@SeanMcElwee) is a co-founder of Data for Progress. Brian F. Schaffner (@b_schaffner) is a political scientist at Tufts. Jesse H. Rhodes (@JesseRhodesPS) is a political scientist at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Bernard L. Fraga (@blfraga) is a political scientist at Indiana University.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Katharine Q. SeelyeWalter B. Jones Jr., a Republican congressman from North Carolina whose district included Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, was a staunch supporter of the American-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. He had even helped rebrand French fries as “freedom fries,” as a slap at France for opposing the war.But he had an epiphany one day at a memorial ceremony at Camp Lejeune for Marine Sgt. Michael Bitz, 31, who had been killed in Iraq shortly after the invasion while trying to evacuate his wounded comrades.During the ceremony, the sergeant’s 2-year-old son, Joshua, dropped a toy. A young Marine in dress uniform reached down to pick it up and handed it back.“And the boy looked up at him, and the Marine looked down, and then it hit me,” Mr. Jones told Mother Jones magazine years later.“This little boy would never know his daddy.”Mr. Jones’s grief at this scene would lead to a dramatic political conversion against the war, putting him in opposition to his own party and President George W. Bush. It also led to years of trying to atone for his earlier support.Mr. Jones died on Sunday, his 76th birthday, in Greenville, N.C., a statement by his office said. His health had been declining since September. Before he won re-election in November to his 12th term, he indicated that it would be his last. He then broke his hip in mid-January and was in hospice care at his death.After witnessing that memorial ceremony, Mr. Jones decided to write letters to the families and extended families of every American killed in any conflict in which the United States had been involved since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.“That was, for me, asking God to forgive me for my mistake,” Mr. Jones told NPR in 2017. A deeply religious man, he had converted to Roman Catholicism after growing up a Southern Baptist.At his death Mr. Jones had written more than 12,000 letters. (More than 4,500 American military personnel have been killed in Iraq and more than 2,400 in Afghanistan.)“Gradually, one letter at a time, Jones’s doubts about the war began to take shape,” Mother Jones wrote in 2006.Mr. Jones also began putting up pictures in the hallway outside his Capitol Hill office of all the American military personnel who had been killed since 9/11. As those numbers climbed, Mr. Jones limited the pictures to those of Marines from Camp Lejeune.A pivotal moment for him came when his daughter, Ashley, gave him the audiobook of James Bamford’s “A Pretext for War” (2004).In her review, The New York Times critic Michiko Kakutani wrote that the book “draws a scathing picture of ideologues in the Bush administration, manipulating dubious evidence about links between Al Qaeda and Saddam Hussein and flawed information about weapons of mass destruction in the push toward war.”Mr. Jones’s sorrow over the loss of lives now gave way to outrage over the distortions and lies from the Bush administration that had led to the invasion. Feeling duped, he declared his opposition to the war in 2005 and pressed the administration for an exit strategy from Iraq.Mr. Jones was particularly galled by Vice President Dick Cheney’s statements that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction.“Lyndon Johnson’s probably rotting in hell right now because of the Vietnam War, and he probably needs to move over for Dick Cheney,” Mr. Jones said in 2013 at a meeting of Young Americans for Liberty in Raleigh, N.C.Mr. Bamford, the author, said in a telephone interview that it took courage for Mr. Jones “to change his position on one of the most momentous events in American history.”“He admitted it privately and came out publicly and said he was wrong,” Mr. Bamford said. “He even tried to bring other congressmen into the fold by having me come up to the Capitol and speak to them. To me, that showed his sincerity.”Acknowledging that he was wrong “was the genesis of the most important journey I’ve ever undertaken,” Mr. Jones later told Taylor Sisk, the co-author of a forthcoming book with Mr. Jones about the congressman’s regret over supporting the invasion.Mr. Sisk said in a telephone interview that Mr. Jones had told him coming out against the war had made him increasingly independent, quoting him as saying, “That’s been a liberating experience.”Walter Beaman Jones Jr. was born on Feb. 10, 1943, in Farmville, N.C., where he grew up and lived most of his life. His mother, Doris (Long) Jones, was a homemaker. His father worked for an office-supply company and served in the State Legislature before being elected to Congress in 1966. A Democrat, the elder Mr. Jones represented eastern North Carolina until he retired in 1992.Walter Jr. graduated in 1961 from Hargrave Military Academy in Chatham, Va., and attended North Carolina State University from 1962 to 1965, when he transferred to Atlantic Christian College, now Barton College, in Wilson, N.C. He graduated with a bachelor’s degree in history in 1966, the same year he married Joe Anne Whitehurst; she and their daughter survive him.Out of college, Mr. Jones joined the National Guard and became a wine salesman as well as a Catholic. In 1982 he was drafted by local Democrats to fill out the term of a state representative who had died in office. Mr. Jones served for 10 years, and when his father retired from Congress, he ran for his seat.Walter Jr. lost the 1992 Democratic primary. He tried again in a reconfigured district in 1994, by which time he had switched parties; a strong foe of abortion rights, he felt more comfortable as a Republican. He won that race and rode into office as part of a Republican wave led by the new speaker, Newt Gingrich.Courtly and well liked, Mr. Jones was voted the nicest member of the House of Representatives in a 2004 survey of top Capitol Hill staffers by The Washingtonian magazine.His political impulses were basically libertarian, and he occasionally strayed from Republican orthodoxy. He fiercely opposed measures that would contribute to the national debt and voted against President Trump’s tax-cut bill for that reason. He denounced the influence of money in politics and urged Congress to counter the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decisionBut after the terrorist attacks of 9/11, when President Bush sought congressional authority to use military force in Iraq, Mr. Jones gave his wholehearted support.Filled with patriotic fervor, he made perhaps his biggest publicity splash when he pushed for the menus in the Capitol cafeteria to be changed to read “freedom fries” instead of “French fries,” an idea he borrowed from a North Carolina restaurant chain.He was roundly applauded by Republicans and ridiculed by Democrats. (Tina Fey, on “Saturday Night Live,” said that in France, “American cheese is now referred to as ‘idiot cheese.’ ”)It was only about a month later that Mr. Jones attended the Camp Lejeune memorial ceremony that would affect him so profoundly and lead him to apologize, many times, in public.“I did not do what I should have done, to read and find out whether Bush was telling us the truth about Saddam being responsible for 9/11 and having weapons of mass destruction,” Mr. Jones told NPR in 2015.“Because I did not do my job then, I helped kill 4,000 Americans,” he said. “And I will go to my grave regretting that.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Katharine Q. SeelyeFred Malek, a major Republican fund-raiser and adviser to several presidents who also had a business career that included a stint as president of Marriott Hotels, died on Sunday in Virginia. He was 82.The American Action Network, a conservative advocacy group that Mr. Malek co-founded, announced the death. His family said he died of complications of an infection after hip surgery.Mr. Malek built up a wide-ranging political, corporate and philanthropic portfolio. It included running Northwest Airlines, serving as a power broker for the Republican Party and becoming a major benefactor to his alma mater, the United States Military Academy at West Point.Mr. Malek, who often appeared on cable talk programs, was friendly with several Republican presidents. He served in the administrations of Richard M. Nixon, Gerald R. Ford, Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush.He was an owner of the Texas Rangers with George W. Bush and others before Mr. Bush became president. He did not work for Donald J. Trump, but President Trump appointed him chairman of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, a research group.Mr. Malek’s initial foray into presidential politics came during the Nixon administration, when he was deputy under secretary of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. He was later a driving force behind the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum, raising $25 million for its construction.Nixon’s daughters, Tricia Nixon Cox and Julie Nixon Eisenhower, said in a statement, “Fred did more for our father’s legacy than anyone else in recent memory.”But his association with Nixon would leave a stain on his own legacy.In July 1971, the president was furious when the Bureau of Labor Statistics attributed a drop in the unemployment rate to a statistical quirk rather than to administration policies. According to news accounts as well as the Nixon archives, the president believed that a “Jewish cabal” was trying to sabotage him politically.And so he instructed Mr. Malek, then the White House personnel chief, to count the number of Jews in the labor bureau.Mr. Malek refused four times to do so, but finally relented. Guessing who was Jewish based on their last names, he sent the president a letter saying that 13 of 35 top employees were. The letter’s existence remained unknown for 17 years.In 1988, The Washington Post reported on the letter and indicated that it had resulted in the demotions of at least two Jewish officials.Mr. Malek, who had gone on to serve as deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget under both Nixon and Ford in the 1970s, said he had nothing to do with the demotions.“I would have found it offensive and morally unacceptable, and I would have refused,” he was quoted as saying.At the time, in 1988, he was deputy chairman of the Republican National Committee and a high-level adviser to Vice President Bush, who was running for president. He resigned from the committee when the story broke. Slate subsequently reported that a White House memo showed that Mr. Malek had, in fact, known about the demotions.He was remorseful, apologized many times, insisted he was not anti-Semitic and committed himself to fighting anti-Semitism, earning the support of some Jewish leaders. While the matter did not appear to interfere with his business pursuits or political activities, it was often raised by the news media whenever he began a new venture.Perhaps Mr. Malek’s most prodigious political work was in the service of the Republican Governors Association. From 2008 to this year, he revitalized that organization and helped transform it into a political juggernaut. At his death, he was still its finance chairman.The party was in a slump in 2008 after Senator John McCain, for whom Mr. Malek had served as national finance chairman, lost the presidential race to Barack Obama.“He saw that the way to rebuild the Republican Party was not through Washington but by helping to elect Republican governors in the state capitals,” Pete Snyder, a Virginia businessman and friend of Mr. Malek’s, said in a telephone interview.Bringing his business savvy to politics, Mr. Malek created an “executive round table,” which offered high-level donors the chance to mingle with V.I.P.s, among other perks. Mr. Snyder, a round table member, said the money went toward recruiting and financing candidates for governor across the country.The association vastly outraised its Democratic counterpart and enjoyed unparalleled success. Between 2008 and 2018, Mr. Malek raised $312 million through the round table and helped elect a total of 84 Republican governors, said David Rexrode, executive director of the governors association.Over the last decade, the number of Republican governors rose to 33, up from 19 in 2008.Frederic Vincent Malek was born on Dec. 22, 1936, in Berwyn, Ill., outside Chicago. His mother, Martha (Smicklas) Malek, a homemaker, was of Yugoslavian descent; his father, Frederick, who was of Czech descent, drove a beer truck.Fred knew from an early age that he wanted to attend West Point. After graduating in 1959, he served in combat in Vietnam as a Ranger with the Army Special Forces.While on rest and recuperation in Hawaii, he met Marlene McArthur, whom he married in 1962. She survives him, as do their daughter, Michelle DuPont Olson; their son, Frederick W. Malek; five grandchildren; a brother, David; and a sister, Marci Anderson.Mr. Malek received a master of business administration degree from Harvard Business School in 1964 and went to work as a management consultant for McKinsey & Company. He joined the Marriott Corporation in 1975 and rose to president, holding that position until he left in 1988. During his tenure, and despite a recession, Marriott strongly outperformed its competitor hotel chains.In 1989 he became a senior adviser to the Carlyle Group, one of the nation’s most prestigious private equity firms.With a reputation for leveraged buyouts, Mr. Malek’s financial coups over the years included the acquisition of the Ritz Carlton Hotel Company, Northwest Airlines and Coldwell Banker, now CB Richard Ellis.He was also a significant donor to West Point, where his legacy includes the Malek Tennis Center; the Malek Soccer Stadium; the O’Meara, Malek, Dawkins, Class of ’59 Strength and Development Center; and the Frederic V. Malek West Point Visitors Center, which overlooks the Hudson River.He was so devoted to the academy that he named two of his businesses, Thayer Capital and Thayer Lodging Group Inc., after Sylvanus Thayer, known as the “father” of West Point.Mr. Malek was to be buried at the cemetery on the academy grounds.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Monica DaveyCHICAGO — A judge on Thursday blocked a set of laws pushed through late last year by Republican legislators in Wisconsin that aimed to weaken the power of the state’s newly elected Democratic governor and attorney general, setting off a bitter fight in the state.The judge, Richard Niess of Dane County Circuit Court, issued a temporary injunction on the laws, which included curbing the authority of the incoming governor, Tony Evers, in the rule-making process and limiting the power of Josh Kaul, the new attorney general.The judge said that the Republican lawmakers’ last-minute meeting — a December session just after the election but before the new Democrats could be sworn in — did not meet the requirements of Wisconsin law. And so the measures that emerged from it, he said, “cannot stand.” The case had been brought to court by several individuals and groups, including the League of Women Voters, Disability Rights Wisconsin and Black Leaders Organizing for Communities.Efforts last year by lawmakers in Wisconsin and in other states, including Michigan, to weaken the power of new leaders who won elections in November set off a flurry of angry protests and, in Wisconsin, several lawsuits.The efforts also added to a tense situation emerging in Madison, the Wisconsin state capital, where government is now split after eight years of complete Republican control under Gov. Scott Walker. Republicans still firmly dominate the State Legislature; Mr. Evers, Mr. Kaul, and other Democrats have taken top state offices.Mr. Evers called Judge Niess’s ruling “a victory for the people of Wisconsin” and said that the Legislature had “overplayed its hand by using an unlawful process to accumulate more power for itself and override the will of the people, despite the outcome of last November’s election.”On Thursday, Mr. Evers directed Mr. Kaul to withdraw Wisconsin from a multistate lawsuit challenging the Affordable Care Act — a suit that the state had joined under the previous, Republican administration. Until Thursday, Mr. Kaul had been blocked from withdrawing Wisconsin from the suit; one of the provisions of the laws passed by the Republicans in December prevented the Democrats from removing the state from the case, as they had promised to do during their campaigns. Mr. Kaul filed a motion seeking the withdrawal on Thursday, a spokeswoman for Mr. Evers said.Republican leaders in the State Legislature swiftly pledged to appeal Judge Niess’s ruling, questioning what it meant for other unusual legislative sessions that had been called in Wisconsin over the decades.“Today’s ruling only creates chaos and will surely raise questions about items passed during previous extraordinary sessions, including stronger laws against child sexual predators and drunk drivers,” Robin Vos, the Republican speaker, and Scott Fitzgerald, the Republicans’ Senate majority leader, said in a joint statement.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Trip GabrielThomas K. Norment Jr., the powerful Republican majority leader in the Virginia Senate, was a top editor of a 1968 college yearbook that included several photographs of students in blackface as well as racist slurs.Mr. Norment, 72, a longtime fixture and political broker in the State Legislature, is the first Republican to be swept up in Virginia’s ongoing political crisis over racist behavior in the past. The Virginian-Pilot newspaper first reported on the photos and material on Thursday.As a senior at Virginia Military Institute, then an all-male college that was sometimes called “the West Point of the South,’’ Mr. Norment was managing editor of the 1968 edition of the Bomb yearbook. That edition included students in blackface and slurs aimed at African-Americans, Asians and Jews, according to a copy viewed by The New York Times.Mr. Norment, in a statement released by his office Thursday, said, “The use of blackface is abhorrent in our society and I emphatically condemn it.” He said he was part of a seven-member team at the Bomb, “a 359-page yearbook,” and added, “I cannot endorse or associate myself with every photo, entry, or word on each page.” He noted that he did not appear in the offensive pictures and said he did not take those photos.The images surfaced in the wake of acknowledgments by two Virginia leaders, Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark Herring, that they had each worn blackface as young men. The admissions by those two Democrats have plunged Virginia into turmoil and led to calls for both men’s resignations. A third Democratic leader, Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax, is facing an allegation of sexual assault.The Bomb yearbook includes a photograph of two smiling people in blackface holding a football, one with a cigarette and white military hat. In another photo, a young man is in blackface posing with others apparently at a party.The yearbook includes page after page of seniors posed in starched white military shirts, or sometimes informally, accompanied by breezy descriptions of their sports and social activities. Some of these descriptions refer to students with slurs and obscenities.Virginia Military Institute, founded two decades before the Civil War, is a state-supported academy that has long been favored by prominent Virginia families. It only admitted African-Americans in 1968, the year that Mr. Norment graduated. Women were first admitted about three decades later.Mr. Northam, the governor, graduated from the institute in 1981, where his yearbook entry included the nickname “Coonman.’’ He went on to Eastern Virginia Medical School, where a photograph from his 1984 yearbook page surfaced last week showing a figure in blackface and another in K.K.K. robes.A statement by Mr. Norment on the yearbook’s page dedicated to its editors, reads, “It has been the objective of this year’s Bomb staff to concentrate on the VMI as it exists in actuality, not in theory.”Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byPolling shows those getting smaller refunds are less likely to view the tax overhaul favorably, even if their take-home pay grew.By Ben Casselman and Jim TankersleyWhen President Trump signed a large package of tax cuts into law in 2017, the Internal Revenue Service moved to make sure the savings showed up quickly in paychecks. Doing so probably lifted consumer spending last year, but it may have hurt Republicans politically, new polling suggests.Administration officials, it appears, underestimated Americans’ love of tax refunds.Nearly four in five people say they would rather overpay their federal income taxes and get a refund every spring — effectively making an interest-free loan to the government — than underpay and owe money come tax season, according to a poll for The New York Times by the online research firm SurveyMonkey. That preference appears to be influencing how Americans view Mr. Trump’s signature cuts: Among people who have already filed their tax returns, those who said they received a bigger refund  this year are far more likely than others to approve of the law. But many people are reporting that their tax refunds are smaller this tax season, or that they owe money. In addition to being more likely than other Americans to say they oppose the law, those people feel worse about the economy over all. They are also significantly more likely to disapprove of Mr. Trump’s performance in office.The findings suggest that the administration’s decisions on withholding may have hurt the law politically.“I was hopeful that the rhetoric for once was going to match expectations and it did not,” said Tony Mendes, a 61-year-old federal employee in Denver. “I got back less than I would have anticipated.”Independent analyses consistently show that the 2017 law gave most Americans a tax cut, and few families will end up paying more than under the previous rules.Federal officials faced a choice about how to pass those savings on to taxpayers. One option would have been to make most people wait until they filed tax returns this spring, delivering a tax-season windfall but essentially delaying the cut by a year. Instead, the I.R.S. chose to begin withholding less from workers’ paychecks early last year. That put more money in workers’ pockets right away, but made the effects of the tax cut harder to see, since the savings amounted to just a few dollars per pay period for many people.The new law made numerous changes to the tax code — eliminating and capping some deductions and credits while increasing others — and the revised withholding rules did not account for every situation. As a result, government auditors warned last year that the withholding changes would reduce refunds for several million Americans.Treasury officials acknowledged on Friday that some people had struggled to navigate the new withholding setup, leading them to underpay their taxes. The department will not charge a penalty to those who paid at least 80 percent of their total tax liability during the year, the officials said. Previously, the penalty threshold was 85 percent.As of last week, I.R.S. statistics showed that the average refund had not changed for those who had filed. But total filings were down, and the share of returns producing a refund had declined by 0.5 percentage points, or about 300,000 filers. (Experts caution against reading too much into tax statistics before the April filing deadline.)“You can see people potentially being frustrated if the tax season isn’t playing out the way they expected,” said Michelle Meyer, chief United States economist for Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “Other people might be quite pleased. It is quite split how people are being impacted by the tax cut.”Democrats have accused the Trump administration of political gamesmanship.“The Treasury Department under-withheld taxes from millions of families’ paychecks to make the benefits of the tax law appear greater before the 2018 election, and the bill is now coming due,” Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee, said in an emailed statement. “Families who depend on annual tax refunds to pay down debt, cover medical expenses and afford car repairs are discovering their refunds are smaller or they owe money.”Among people who have already filed tax returns, 32 percent said their refunds had shrunk from a year ago, compared with 22 percent who said their refunds had grown, according to the Times survey. Another 11 percent said they owed money this year.Tax refunds reflect the difference between what taxpayers had withheld during the year and what they actually owed. They reveal next to nothing about whether a given household got a tax cut under the 2017 law.Still, it is not always easy for taxpayers to figure out how they are affected by policy changes, and many people may draw conclusions based on the size of their refunds.Among survey respondents who said their refunds were smaller or that they owed money, just 35 percent believed they had gotten a tax cut as a result of the law. Among those whose refunds grew or stayed the same, on the other hand, 49 percent said they had gotten a tax cut.Cause and effect is not always straightforward in public opinion surveys. It is possible that people who already approved of Mr. Trump and his policies are more likely to believe their refunds had grown, or are at least more likely to report that to pollsters. Surveys in recent years have revealed growing partisan splits on views of the economy and other issues.Laura Wronski, a researcher for SurveyMonkey, noted that Republicans were more likely to say their refunds had gotten bigger. “It’s just unlikely that it aligns that perfectly along partisan lines,” she said. “It’s more likely that people are going to stick to the side they’re on.”Still, partisanship is not the whole story. Even among Republicans, those who said their refunds had shrunk were significantly less likely to believe they had received a tax cut.By adjusting workers’ paychecks right away, the I.R.S. may have helped pump up economic growth last year. People are more likely to spend small, incremental increases to their paychecks, economists said, whereas they often try to save larger  lump sums. Consumer spending surged in the middle of last year, helping the economy to one of its best years of the past decade.The uncertainty over tax refunds could now be dragging spending down. Low-income consumers, in particular, often rely on tax refunds to finance major purchases. Data from Bank of America showed a dip in spending among low-income households in February, which could reflect a delay in tax refunds.“If you’re used to getting a nice refund and then you discover you owe, that’s a big shock,” Ms. Meyer said.Low earners are not the only ones affected. Alan Abraham, who works in medical research in Pittsburgh, said he used his tax refund every year to buy season tickets to the Penguins. This year his refund was much smaller, and he has not decided whether to renew.Mr. Abraham said he paid more under the new tax law because of its cap on the deduction for state and local taxes, which hit him particularly hard because he owns two homes. A political independent who supports a flat tax, Mr. Abraham said he mistrusted politicians of both parties and did not vote in 2016. But he said the tax law had made him less likely to support Mr. Trump, whom he did not vote for in 2016, next year.“At the beginning I was, like, ‘Well, let’s see how he does,’” Mr. Abraham said. “Based on the fact that my tax bill has gone up, I actually wouldn’t vote for him.” Despite the skepticism of people like Mr. Abraham, the tax law has gained support in recent months. Half of the survey’s respondents said they approved of the law, up from 45 percent in September and the highest share since February 2018. (The Times has not asked about the tax law every month.)There are signs that as more people file returns, they are discovering that they benefited from the law. Among those who had filed before completing the survey, 43 percent said they definitely or probably received a tax cut, compared with 35 percent of those who had not yet filed. “It seems like people are realizing as they’re going through the process of doing their taxes that, ‘Oh, things did improve for me, and I wasn’t expecting that,’” Ms. Wronski, the SurveyMonkey researcher, said.About the survey: The data in this article came from an online survey of 10,046 adults conducted by the polling firm SurveyMonkey from March 4 to March 10. The company selected respondents at random from the nearly three million people who take surveys on its platform each day. Responses were weighted to match the demographic profile of the population of the United States. The survey has a modeled error estimate (similar to a margin of error in a standard telephone poll) of plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, so differences of less than that amount are statistically insignificant.Ben Casselman writes about economics, with a particular focus on stories involving data. He previously reported for FiveThirtyEight and The Wall Street Journal.  @bencasselman • Facebook Jim Tankersley covers economic and tax policy. Over more than a decade covering politics and economics in Washington, he has written extensively about the stagnation of the American middle class and the decline of economic opportunity.  @jimtankersley Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter Baker and Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — President Trump and his Republican allies went on the offensive on Monday, vowing to pursue and even punish those responsible for the Russia investigation now that the special counsel has wrapped up without implicating him or his campaign in a criminal conspiracy to influence the 2016 election.Mr. Trump, grim faced and simmering with anger, denounced adversaries who have pounded him for two years over Russian election interference, calling them “treasonous” people who are guilty of “evil” deeds and should be investigated themselves. “Those people will certainly be looked at,” he said.On Capitol Hill, the Republican chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee announced he would do just that while also calling for a new special counsel to look at the origins of the last one. White House officials and Republican lawmakers demanded the resignation of a Democratic committee chairman investigating the Russia matter, and Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign lobbied television networks to blackball Democrats who advanced the collusion theory.The assertive posture indicated that despite initial calls by Republican leaders to move on after the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, the president and his supporters were intent on turning the tables on his foes. While Democrats saw the actions as revenge, Mr. Trump’s defenders said they wanted accountability for a “witch hunt” that has consumed half of his term.“There are a lot of people out there that have done some very, very evil things, very bad things, I would say some treasonous things against our country,” Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House. “I’ve been looking at them for a long time,” he added, “and I’m saying why haven’t they been looked at? They lied to Congress, many of them, you know who they are. They’ve done so many evil things.”The approach, if it lasts, contrasts with those of other presidents who survived major scandals. After the Iran-contra affair, President Ronald Reagan happily dropped the subject and focused on arms control talks with the Soviet Union and other issues. After being acquitted at his Senate impeachment trial, President Bill Clinton was just as eager to move on to Social Security and other initiatives.But Mr. Trump and his allies on Monday sought to put his adversaries on the defensive and cement the view that Mr. Mueller’s report represents complete vindication. Mr. Mueller found no conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia, but he pointedly declined to exonerate the president on obstruction of justice, according to a Justice Department letter to lawmakers on Sunday.Mr. Mueller’s report has yet to be released, so it remains unknown whether it includes damning new details that question the actions of Mr. Trump or his associates, even if they do not represent a crime. Six House Democratic committee chairmen sent a letter on Monday to Attorney General William P. Barr demanding he provide them the full report by next Tuesday.Mr. Trump said on Monday that releasing the report “wouldn’t bother me at all,” but Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, later in the day blocked a nonbinding resolution — already passed unanimously by the House — calling for the report to be made public, arguing that Mr. Barr should decide.Democrats struggled to find a path ahead, with some urging the party to turn its attention to policy differences with Mr. Trump. Speaker Nancy Pelosi has credited such a strategy with fueling last year’s midterm election victories and said she opposed trying to impeach the president “unless there’s something so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan.” She plans to unveil a health care plan on Tuesday.“The report vindicates Nancy Pelosi’s judgment of proceeding with deliberateness and caution and focusing on issues that we can deliver for the American people,” said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California and a leading liberal voice in the House.Republicans faced their own choice. After two years shadowed by Mr. Mueller, Mr. Trump has the opportunity to reset his presidency, but as he strode with new confidence into a post-Mueller world, he appeared more intent on payback.Stephen K. Bannon, his former chief strategist, predicted that Mr. Trump “is going to go full animal” now that Mr. Mueller has wrapped up. The president, Mr. Bannon told Yahoo News, will “come off the chains” and use the findings to “bludgeon” his opposition.Others close to the White House urged the president not to do that but instead focus on his own agenda. “The president has a unique historical opportunity, while in his re-election cycle, to reconnect to millions of Americans who have assumed he was guilty of serious wrongdoing, due to the unrelenting irresponsible media coverage of fake collusion,” said Matt Schlapp, the chairman of the American Conservative Union.Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who golfed with Mr. Trump in Florida last weekend, agreed. “My advice to the president, for whatever it’s worth, is that you are probably stronger today than you have been at any time in your presidency,” he said, adding, “And if I were you, Mr. President, I would focus on what’s next for the country.”Instead, Mr. Graham said, the president should leave it to him to go after the authors of the Russia investigation. As chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Mr. Graham announced that he would investigate anti-Trump bias at the F.B.I. and Justice Department and called on Mr. Barr to appoint a second special counsel to study the same issues.“By any reasonable standard, Mr. Mueller fully investigated the Trump campaign,” he said. “You cannot say that about the other side of the story.”Mr. Trump’s lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, echoed that, saying that the origin of the Russia investigation should be examined. “Who made it up?” he said on Fox News. “It had to come from somewhere. It didn’t just come out of thin air. I want to know who did it, who paid for it, who fueled it.”Other Republicans piled on Democrats who have vocally asserted wrongdoing between the Trump campaign and Russia, taking aim specifically at Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the outspoken chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.“Has anyone heard from slimy Adam #fullofschiff Schiff today?” Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, wrote on Twitter. “I mean it must be embarrassing to have have spent the last 2 years as the leader of the tinfoil hat brigade and have it all come crashing down so quick.”Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, and Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, called on Mr. Schiff to resign as chairman.“Schiff has met the standard that he has imposed on other members of Congress of when they should step back from their positions,” Mr. McCarthy told Politico. “He has exceeded that standard, and there is no question he should step down from the intel chairmanship.”The president’s re-election campaign sent a memo to television producers naming Mr. Schiff and several other Democrats that it argued had “made outlandish, false claims” and should therefore be reconsidered before being booked again.The National Republican Congressional Committee moved to use the special counsel’s conclusions against vulnerable Democrats who had accused Mr. Trump of colluding with Russia. The committee reached back for a July 2017 tweet from Representative Joe Cunningham of South Carolina, who won one of the most Republican seats now held by a Democrat.“Now it’s time for Cunningham to put his big boy pants on and apologize to President Trump and his constituents for peddling dangerous conspiracy theories that divided the country,” the committee said in a statement.As it happened, the one person Mr. Trump made a point of not going after on Monday was Mr. Mueller, who has been on the receiving end of scalding presidential Twitter blasts for more than a year. Asked by a reporter if Mr. Mueller acted honorably, Mr. Trump said: “Yes, he did. Yes, he did.”Congressional Democrats were not backing off, promising to push ahead with an array of investigations into Mr. Trump, his businesses and his policies, while arguing that Mr. Mueller’s scope was relatively narrow and that without seeing all of Mr. Mueller’s evidence, there was no reason to adjust course.Senator Mazie K. Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii and a member of Mr. Graham’s committee, accused Republicans of taking a narrow-minded victory lap.“The pattern of the Republicans is very clear that they continue to play up to the president,” she said. “That is a pattern. They don’t want to look into his activities. They make excuses to him. They support everything he does and it continues.”Mr. Schiff, for his part, said he “would not be intimidated” by the Republicans and stood by his comments about public evidence of collusion. He did concede that after reading Mr. Mueller’s full report he would probably need to reorient the Intelligence Committee’s inquiry into possible foreign influence over the president.“We have a constitutional obligation to make sure that the president and the people are not compromised by a foreign power, and that’s what we intend to do,” he said.An earlier version of this article misstated a remark by the president about his critics. He said that some are guilty of “evil things,” not “evil deeds.”Annie Karni contributed reporting.Follow Peter Baker and Nicholas Fandos on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @npfandos.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Patricia MazzeiMIAMI — For 60 years, the lifeblood of Miami’s idiosyncratic politics has been Cuba, the communist government’s countless sins denounced in street protests, dissected on the spirited Spanish-language airwaves and condemned at campaign rallies under the unifying cry of “Viva Cuba Libre!”But the focus of this city’s freedom-loving fervor has recently moved further south.Venezuela, not Cuba, now dominates Miami’s political conversation. A television anchor not long ago ended a somber segment with a promise to keep praying for the troubled South American country. Venezuelans in the city have gathered for demonstrations to coincide with protests back home. Even the Miami-Dade County Commission, a local body with no control over foreign policy, voted unanimously to recognize the opposition leader Juan Guaidó as Venezuela’s interim president.The shift has been coming on gradually for years, but it has accelerated in recent weeks as Venezuela has sunk further into crisis and its leftist president, Nicolás Maduro, has clung defiantly to power. The showdown in Caracas is reshaping Latino politics in South Florida, home to the highest concentration of Venezuelans in the United States.The change is not a mere demographic curiosity. In Florida, where major elections have repeatedly been decided by tiny margins, an inflection point around Venezuela’s leadership could help define a generation of Venezuelan-American voters, who number in the tens of thousands in this state. President Trump is pushing Mr. Maduro to step aside, and if he succeeds, Democrats fear it could transform Venezuelan-Americans into loyal Republicans, much like Cuban-Americans.“This could be Bay of Pigs 2.0,” said Liz Alarcón, a Venezuelan-American Democrat, referring to the C.I.A.-backed invasion of Cuba in 1961 that failed to overthrow Fidel Castro. The raid turned into a disaster, in part because President John F. Kennedy’s government did not provide sufficient air support to the Cuban exiles who made up the bulk of the invading force — and Florida’s Cuban community turned against both Mr. Kennedy and the Democratic Party.“It is very dangerous territory for Democrats,” State Senator Annette Taddeo of Miami, a Colombian-American and a Democrat, said of her party’s handling of the Venezuela issue. “Republicans are very smart about working on the margins. They know that a state like Florida is usually decided by 1 percent or less, so all they need are enough of the Venezuelans, enough of the Colombians, enough of the Puerto Ricans.”The influx of Puerto Ricans to the Orlando and Miami areas after Hurricane Maria in 2017 prompted some political analysts to make grand predictions about how the new arrivals would turn Florida blue in the midterms. Those forecasts overestimated the rate at which Puerto Ricans actually voted, and underestimated how successful Republicans would be in campaigning to them.Christian Ulvert, a Democratic strategist, predicted that Venezuela policy — especially if the crisis continues to drag on — could become a key Florida question for presidential candidates in the 2020 election, as Puerto Rico was in the 2018 midterms.“Foreign policy has always been deeply intertwined in the Florida political landscape and the outcome of elections,” said Mr. Ulvert, who is Nicaraguan-American and married to a Venezuelan.In South Florida, protesters have publicly shamed former members of the Venezuelan government in restaurants and angrily chanted outside Goldman Sachs when the bank purchased deeply discounted Venezuelan bonds, extending a financial lifeline to Mr. Maduro’s administration.When Mr. Trump announced last month he was recognizing Mr. Guaidó as Venezuela’s interim leader, thousands of Venezuelans gathered in a park outside Miami to voice their support.Ms. Alarcón, 30, said her fellow Democrats have been slow to react to Republican overtures not only to Venezuelans but also to other Democratic-leaning Latinos who fled authoritarian governments. They were especially alarmed when three liberal members of Congress — Representatives Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii, Ro Khanna of California and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota — recently criticized the White House’s recognition of Mr. Guaidó and threats of more sanctions against Mr. Maduro.“A U.S.-backed coup in Venezuela is not a solution to the dire issues they face,” Ms. Omar wrote on Twitter, invoking a history of ill-received United States intervention against left-wing governments in Latin America during the Cold War years.But many Venezuelan exiles are exasperated to see Democrats opposed to intervening in the alarming humanitarian crisis in their country because of the lingering politics of the past. “This is not a coup!” Joanna Hausmann, a Venezuelan-American comedian in New York, declared in a video she filmed to explain the situation.“What tends to happen with Venezuelans is people have no idea why we’re here,” she said in an interview. Those who have fled the country, she said, are “running from dictatorship, from lack of food.”Ms. Hausmann, 29, whose uncle, a journalist, is under house arrest back home, said she was attacked on social media as a “right-winger” for agreeing with Mr. Trump on Venezuela policy, though she disagrees with him on most everything else.“I’m very disappointed in my liberal brethren,” she said. “Everything is distilled into, ‘Oh, Trump, and the history of coups in Latin America.’ It’s a completely different situation with a 25-year history.”The potential problem for Democrats is that a few dissenting voices from the left challenging Mr. Trump’s increasingly popular policy on Venezuela might be louder than the rest of the party, said Representative Mario Diaz-Balart of Miami, a Cuban-American Republican.“Just like when we’ve had instances on the immigration issue where a small group of Republicans will say things and that becomes the Republican narrative on immigration, Democrats now have a similar — and serious — problem,” he said in an interview.More top Democrats, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., have thrown their support behind Mr. Guaidó over the past few days.Mr. Trump has said he is open to all options on Venezuela, including military ones. No Miami politicians, Republican or Democrat, favor armed conflict, but they have espoused bipartisan support for the president’s other statements so far. In a rare moment of unity, Mr. Diaz-Balart and four Democratic lawmakers from Miami and Orlando have introduced bills to restrict arm sales to Mr. Maduro’s government, grant Venezuelan immigrants temporary protected status, and provide the country with humanitarian aid.“This is very American, to support democracy,” said Representative Donna Shalala, a Democrat.Senator Marco Rubio, a Cuban-American Republican who has played a central role in crafting the Trump administration’s policy, said in an interview that critics from outside Florida who look at the issue through an old ideological prism often have an uninformed view of Venezuela: “Their history on this issue is maybe a week old.”He compared Miami’s ties to Caracas, the Venezuelan capital that is just a three-hour plane ride away, to inseparable cities along the southwest border.“The closest sort of analogy would be with border towns in Mexico, who are deeply dependent on cross-border trade,” Mr. Rubio said. He recalled attending a family friend’s wedding in the Venezuelan city of Valencia when he was younger. “You can’t live in Miami without knowing people in Venezuela.”Ernesto Ackerman, 69, a Venezuelan-American activist who came to the United States in 1989, long before Mr. Maduro and his predecessor, President Hugo Chávez, came into power, described the arrival of subsequent “tides” of Venezuelan immigrants.“If the problem gets solved,” said Mr. Ackerman, a Republican, “a lot of people are going to go back.”Both Republican and Democratic lawmakers insist that they back Venezuela action on principle, not as an electoral ploy. Yet Democrats saw politics at play this month when Vice President Mike Pence delivered a Venezuela policy speech in Doral — a Miami suburb known as Doralzuela — and did not invite Democratic members of Congress. Then, on Tuesday, Mr. Trump mentioned Venezuela in his State of the Union address and immediately pivoted to a campaign line that seemed to liken Venezuela’s socialist government to liberals in the United States.“Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country,” he said.During last year’s midterm elections, Ron DeSantis, the Republican nominee for governor, frequently deployed the word “socialist” against Mr. Gillum, his opponent. The jab, dismissed by Democrats as ridiculous, appeared to stick: Mr. DeSantis won. So did Rick Scott, a Republican who was elected to the Senate after  working hard to court Venezuelans, Puerto Ricans and other Latinos who typically vote for Democrats.Florida’s Venezuelan community has a smattering of activists who are the heads of various organizations but no obvious leader — a reflection of an immigrant group still getting established, still up for grabs politically and still glued to the news from home, usually via Twitter posts or forwarded audio files on WhatsApp.“I’ve been sleeping maybe three hours a night,” said Yusnaiberth Detraux, 44, who described spending hours online scouring for information “until my eyes hurt.”Ms. Detraux, who left Venezuela 12 years ago and became a United States citizen last year, said she had lost hope until Mr. Guaidó came along, and the United States and its allies in the Western Hemisphere and Europe rallied behind him. Though she leans Republican, Ms. Detraux had not liked Mr. Trump at first. Then he delivered on his promised hard line on Venezuela.“Thank God we have this president,” she said. “At least he’s listened to us. Unfortunately, the previous administration did not.”Follow Patricia Mazzei on Twitter: @PatriciaMazzei.Saul Martinez contributed reporting from Doral, Fla.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe G.O.P. needs to finally figure out, or at least start figuring out, exactly what it stands for on health care policy.By Peter SudermanMr. Suderman is features editor at Reason.Judging by exit polls, the single most effective midterm issue for Democrats was health care — in particular, the argument, made by Democratic candidates across the country, that Republicans were out to eliminate the Affordable Care Act’s regulations governing pre-existing conditions.So when a Texas judge ruled in December that the entirety of the health law was unconstitutional, he ensured that this issue, and this argument, would remain front and center heading into the 2020 election. Legally speaking, the ruling is weak, and the case may be tossed in the appeals process. But if it travels all the way to the Supreme Court, it would effectively guarantee that health care remains politically potent throughout the presidential campaign. You can expect the Democrats’ cast-of-thousands presidential field to all swear to protect Obamacare’s pre-existing conditions rules — and President Trump to demonstrate his usual command of the finer points of health care policy in response.The ruling thus represents a challenge for Republicans — but also an opportunity. At least in theory, it could force the party to finally figure out, or at least start figuring out, exactly what it stands for when it comes to health care policy.The empty mantra of “repeal and replace” — which was all but buried by the midterms — was never a stand-in for an actual shared vision for the governance of health care in the United States. At the moment, the party seems confused about what, exactly, American health care policy should look like.That confusion extends beyond Obamacare to Medicare (which President Trump has ruled off limits) and Medicaid (which the repeal bills tried and failed to restructure), as well as to the tax deduction for employer-sponsored insurance around which health care policy has contorted for so many decades.It’s not that there’s a shortage of ideas: Conservative think tanks have health policy white papers to spare, and have for years. All the way back in 2012, for example, you could find the right-of-center health policy scholars James Capretta and Robert E. Moffit outlining principles for an Obamacare replacement in the journal National Affairs. Their plan called for limiting the tax break employers get for offering health coverage, converting existing public coverage programs to premium support (essentially a subsidy) while promoting competition among private plans, protecting people who maintain continuous coverage from spikes in premiums, and allowing states more flexibility to opt in and out of national health care initiatives.The Cato Institute’s Michael Cannon has long called for the creation of large Health Savings Accounts that would significantly increase the amount of money individuals could put into tax-free accounts for medical expenses, including health insurance, potentially giving millions of people an optional exit from employer-sponsored insurance.What connects these ideas is that they are not merely bullet-pointed lists of policy tweaks; they are frameworks for thinking more broadly about what federal health policy can, and perhaps should, be.That sort of thinking — about both general principles and the specific policy components necessary to make them a reality — is exactly what the Republican Party lacks, and what it desperately needs.It’s true that some Republican lawmakers have cobbled together proposals of varying degrees of specificity over the year: During his 2016 campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida sketched out a mostly forgotten health care plan that would have set up a broad-based system of refundable tax credits intended to subsidize the purchase of insurance in hopes of helping people buy coverage. And during the 2017 Obamacare repeal effort, Senators Lindsey Graham and Bill Cassidy offered a plan to give states far more flexibility, eliminating many of Obamacare's provisions at the national level while essentially turning the program into a block grant to the states.But these efforts have tended to be cursory and short-lived, with tiny or nonexistent constituencies. Few conservative lawmakers talk about them today, and it’s unclear whether many Republicans in Congress today even grasp the basics.Which is why, for all these ideas, if you ask Republican politicians what they stand for when it comes to health policy, you are likely to hear slogans like “patient centered” and “preserving the doctor-patient relationship” and possibly something about how Democrats want to “socialize Medicare” — as if the nation’s largest government health program is not already an essentially socialist enterprise.So it’s possible to imagine that at least some in the party will try to resolve, or at least start acknowledging, some of these questions. More likely, given the state of the G.O.P. under Trump, who is no one’s idea of a wonk, is that Republicans will simply decline to pursue the issue with any force, and the shabbiness of the party’s current non-position will become even more glaring. Indeed, just this month, Mr. Trump continued to predict Obamacare’s demise, saying he believed that “it’s going to be terminated,” possibly as a result of the Texas case, and that in the aftermath, “a deal will be made for good health care in this country.” What sort of deal? I suspect that even (perhaps especially) the president doesn’t know.That sort of glibness, in turn, is likely to give already-ascendant Democratic ideas a boost. The party’s enthusiasm for Medicare for All has flourished recently in part because it exists in a vacuum, with little if any substantive competition from the right. There are serious practical and political impediments to making a transition to single payer, from the enormous increase in federal spending and the tax increases it would almost certainly entail to the disruption that would be caused by the elimination of current private health insurance coverage for millions of Americans.Yet by failing to make even a halfhearted case for an alternative, Republicans are helping to clear the path for their opponents. When the options presented are single-payer or “I don’t know,” it’s not surprising that many Americans would gravitate toward the former.In the meantime, the Texas case will ensure that the Republicans’ waffling and uncertainty on policy basics, like legal requirements regarding pre-existing conditions, remain in the spotlight. The red state attorneys general who brought the case may have imagined it was a clever way to highlight Obamacare’s flaws, but instead it shined a spotlight on their own.Peter Suderman is features editor at Reason.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byEvery House Democrat voted for a broadly worded resolution condemning “hateful expressions of intolerance,” but 23 Republicans voted no. By Emily Cochrane and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House passed a resolution on Thursday that condemned anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry. The resolution, written by House Democrats, began as an implicit response to comments made by Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, that were widely deemed anti-Semitic, but when some Democrats objected to singling her out, the resolution was broadened to condemn other forms of hatred. Earlier this year, House Republicans unanimously endorsed a resolution that condemned white nationalism and white supremacy after Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, asked when the term “white supremacy” had become controversial, capping years of bigoted comments that had gone unpunished. This time, they were not so united, and some Democrats demanded to know why.Where’s the outrage over the 23 GOP members who voted NO on a resolution condemning bigotry today?Oh, there’s none?Did they get called out, raked over, ambushed in halls and relentlessly asked why not?No? Okay. Got it.Here is their answer:“The frustration on the Republican side was that they watered down the amendment,” Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican leader, said at a news conference on Friday. (Mr. McCarthy voted for the resolution; one of his top lieutenants, Representative Liz Cheney, voted against it.)“We’re here today because a member of this body issued a series of anti-Semitic statements,” Mr. Biggs said in a floor speech on Thursday. He spoke of the difference between justice and mercy, adding: “We now have a pattern and we begin to wonder how we extend mercy when justice cries out against one who is anti-Semitic. It doesn’t help that Democratic leaders have attempted to rationalize and protect this individual.”In 2016, Mr. Biggs raised eyebrows when he charged that the Jewish philanthropist George Soros was buying a local election for county attorney.Mr. Brooks said he voted against the resolution because its “failure to specifically state opposition to discrimination against Caucasian-Americans and Christians, while reflective of Socialist Democrat priorities and values is, by omission, fatal to the bill.”After Mr. Brooks said in 2016 that Muslims wanted to “kill every gay person in America,” the Alabama chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations demanded an apology.Mr. Buck, in a statement after the vote, criticized the resolution for failing “to address a problem that needed to be confronted.”“Anti-Semitism can’t be compared with any other hate speech without marginalizing the history of Jewish oppression,” he said. “I will not vote to overlook the anti-Semitism which has been covered up by the Democratic leadership.”Mr. Budd, reacting on Twitter, said that he voted against the resolution because it failed to name Ms. Omar or list her comments.The legislation, Mr. Burgess said in a statement, “does not adequately refute the anti-Semitism that has been displayed in the U.S. House of Representatives.”Perhaps the most striking “no” vote came from Ms. Cheney, the No. 3 Republican, because of her role as chairwoman of the House Republican Conference. “Today’s resolution vote was a sham put forward by Democrats to avoid condemning one of their own and denouncing vile anti-Semitism,” Ms. Cheney said in a statement after the vote. The Democrats’ resolution left the party with internal questions about where to draw the line on speech.Mr. Collins was re-elected in November even after he was indicted on a charge of insider trading. He has kept a low profile, but after his “no” vote, he took to Twitter.“After reading the final resolution I did not feel it was strong enough in support of Israel, the only true democracy in the Middle East, and that is why I voted no,” Mr. Collins said. Mr. Conaway said in a statement that House Democrats “must take bigotry of all kinds seriously, not just instances that fit their progressive liberal agenda.”“If Democrat Leaders wanted to specifically address anti-Semitism and a member of their conference who has repeatedly made anti-Semitic comments,” Mr. Crawford said on Twitter, “this resolution failed in nearly every way possible.”Mr. Duncan argued that a true condemnation would have made reference to Ms. Omar, and the comments that prompted the resolution. Mr. Duncan stirred protests in 2017 when he posted on Facebook an image of a white man labeled “Europe” with a noose around his neck watering a small tree labeled “Islam,” with one end of the noose tied around it. “Chew on this picture,” he wrote.“Jeff I know you’re not racist. Let’s put that to the side,” Bakari Sellers, a former Democratic legislator in South Carolina, tweeted in response. “But this is bigoted, ignorant and embarrassing.”In a fiery speech on the House floor on Thursday, Mr. Gohmert complained that the resolution was “watered down.” Mr. Gohmert dealt with his own accusations of anti-Semitism last year after he falsely accused Mr. Soros of collaborating with the Nazis during World War II, a popular myth on the far right. “George Soros is supposed to be Jewish, but you wouldn’t know it from the damage he’s inflicted on Israel, and the fact that he turned on fellow Jews and helped take the property that they owned,” he said on Fox Business Network.Patrick Gaspard, the president of Mr. Soros’s Open Society Foundations, sent a letter to Mr. Gohmert in December demanding an apology for the “disturbing and false anti-Semitic slur.” Mr. Soros was a child in Nazi-occupied Hungary.“Without naming the offender, the chastisement is an empty gesture,” Mr. Gosar said on Twitter. “It’s time for Democrats to take real action against these anti-Jewish remarks.” Mr. Gosar raised eyebrows after the deadly white supremacist march in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017 when he said “an Obama sympathizer” — funded by Mr. Soros — “started the rally,” then repeated the claim that Mr. Soros “turned in his own people to the Nazis.” Mr. Graves criticized the resolution in a statement as “a sham vote” that failed to directly address Ms. Omar or her remarks. Mr. King complained on Twitter that the resolution was weakened because of political correctness, and said it was a “sad day for Congress.” “Victory for hate speech!” he added. In a statement to The New York Times, Mr. LaMalfa said that the resolution — which he called a “last-minute, politically driven catchall smorgasbord” — was an “abomination to the message that should be sent on the anti-Jewish, anti-Israel rhetoric.” Mr. Massie joined his colleagues in criticizing the scope of the measure, asking on Twitter, “Now that the resolution protects just about every group on the planet, can we add ‘babies on the day of their birth’ as a protected class?”A spokeswoman for Mr. Palazzo did not respond to a request for comment. “House Democrats had the opportunity to make a strong statement against this vile bigotry by condemning hateful statements,” Mr. Rogers in a statement. “Instead, they caved to their radical socialist base and took no meaningful action.”Mr. Roy described the resolution in a statement as “a sham cover vote designed to avoid dealing with a rogue member.”In a statement, Mr. Steube said the resolution should have mentioned Ms. Omar by name and the context of her remarks. In a statement, Mr. Walker said that it was a “spineless resolution” that “provided cover to a politician spreading hatred and anti-Semitism.”“It was a very shallow vote,” Mr. Yoho said in an interview on Friday. “They did everything they could to not condemn the one that was brought out to. So I think it was just a show vote.”In a floor speech on Thursday, Mr. Zeldin asked why Ms. Omar was not named in the resolution and noted that she had not apologized for her most recent comments. (She apologized for other remarks seen as anti-Semitic.)“Why would she be more emboldened to refuse an apology altogether?” he asked in a floor speech. “I don’t believe she is naïve. I believe that she knows exactly what she is doing.”Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting. Emily Cochrane is a reporter in the Washington bureau, covering Congress. She was raised in Miami and graduated from the University of Florida.  @ESCochrane Catie Edmondson is a reporter in the Washington bureau, covering Congress.  @CatieEdmondson Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alexander BurnsWilliam F. Weld, the maverick former governor of Massachusetts, announced on Friday that he would form an exploratory committee to challenge President Trump for the Republican Party’s 2020 nomination, presenting himself as a dissident voice in a political party that has abandoned its mainstream roots.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Mr. Weld, 73, is the first Republican to announce he will run against the president. But Mr. Weld is unlikely to pose a major threat to Mr. Trump and he is in some ways an incongruous figure to leap into the presidential fray. Mr. Weld is a moderate Republican who ran for vice president in 2016 on the Libertarian ticket. His candidacy might be more of an act of protest than a conventional national campaign.But appearing in New Hampshire, Mr. Weld called it a moral duty to stand against “the hard heart, closed mind and clenched fist of nativism and nationalism.”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]“I hope to see the Republican Party assume once again the mantle of being the party of Lincoln,” Mr. Weld said, according to video posted by the news station WCVB. “It upsets me that our energies as a society are being sapped by the president’s culture of divisiveness of Washington.”He continued: “We cannot sit passively as our precious democracy slips quietly into darkness.”Mr. Weld had made little secret in recent months of his interest in challenging Mr. Trump in 2020, either by running for the Libertarian Party’s nomination or by contesting the Republican presidential primaries. He met repeatedly with Republicans organizing opposition to the president, and earlier this month he was reported to have changed his voter registration back to Republican.Several other Republicans are contemplating challenges to Mr. Trump in the primaries, including Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland and former Gov. John Kasich of Ohio. Mr. Trump’s aides have taken the threat of a primary challenge seriously enough to undertake a close review of the rules for the Republican nominating convention and to begin scrutinizing state party chairs and potential convention delegates for political loyalty.But Mr. Trump and his allies have largely declined to go after potential primary rivals in public, trusting that his solid approval ratings with Republicans will insulate him and declining to issue vocal attacks that could have the effect of elevating a challenger.Mr. Weld, a former federal prosecutor from a prominent Boston family, has spent most of his career as the kind of Republican that used to dominate politics across the Northeast. A fiscal conservative who has long supported gay rights and abortion rights, Mr. Weld could have some appeal to moderate Republicans who feel alienated from their party as it continues to swing far to the right.But partisan Republicans also have ample reason to regard Mr. Weld with suspicion. He endorsed Barack Obama for president in 2008 over John McCain, before flipping back to the Republican side in 2012 when his friend and longtime ally, Mitt Romney, was the G.O.P. nominee.Mr. Weld then backed Jeb Bush in the 2016 Republican primaries, before defecting to the Libertarian Party to become the running mate of Gary Johnson, the former governor of New Mexico. The two won a little over 3 percent of the vote.Mr. Weld explained his decision to run that year as a function of his horror over Mr. Trump’s candidacy, comparing Mr. Trump’s rhetoric about immigration to “the glass crunching on Kristallnacht in the ghettos of Warsaw and Vienna.”It is no accident that Mr. Weld unveiled his tentative plan to run for president in New Hampshire, where there is still a sizable community of Republican centrists and independent voters are permitted to vote in partisan primaries.Mr. Weld has some experience with insurgent presidential primary challenges in New Hampshire. In 1992, as a fresh-faced governor from next door, Mr. Weld campaigned in the state to help President George H.W. Bush turn back a challenge from Pat Buchanan, a hard-right nationalist in the mold of Mr. Trump. Mr. Bush defeated Mr. Buchanan, but the conservative commentator’s showing in New Hampshire helped sustain his activist campaign nationally and hobbled the president’s re-election.A New Hampshire contest between Mr. Trump and Mr. Weld would effectively reverse the roles from 1992 — with the fire-breathing immigration hawk as president, and the low-key aristocrat as his gadfly challenger.Cassie Smedile, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, dismissed Mr. Weld and any other challengers who might emerge, citing Mr. Trump’s popularity with Republicans and his “long list of incredible accomplishments for conservatives and the country.”“The R.N.C. and the Republican Party are firmly behind the president,” she said. “Any effort to challenge the president’s nomination is bound to go absolutely nowhere.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel VictorStung by obscene and pointed criticism, Representative Devin Nunes, a Republican from California, has sued Twitter and three users for defamation, claiming the users smeared him and the platform allowed it to happen because of a political agenda.The complaint, which was filed in Henrico County Circuit Court in Virginia on Tuesday, seeks $250 million in damages. In making his case, Mr. Nunes, a loyal ally of President Trump and the former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, repeated several common Republican complaints that Twitter has repeatedly denied: that it censors Republicans, “shadow bans” their accounts and actively helps their opponents.Though absorbing criticism comes with the territory for politicians, the complaint described the objectionable tweets from the three users as something “that no human being should ever have to bear and suffer in their whole life.”To make his case, he cited a wide variety of tweets that included accusations of criminal misconduct, crude jokes at his expense and relatively banal criticism. The complaint says the tweets “falsely stated” that Mr. Nunes had brought “shame” to his family and that he was voted “Most Likely to Commit Treason” in high school, and that one of them included a cartoon image of a sexual act with Mr. Trump and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. The complaint lists dozens of other tweets he found insulting.Mr. Nunes singled out Liz Mair, a Republican strategist who said on Twitter that she would not comment on the lawsuit, and two parody accounts: @DevinNunesMom, which was suspended last year, and @DevinCow, which is still active. The complaint says that Ms. Mair coordinated with the anonymous accounts on “a vicious defamation campaign” but did not offer evidence she was behind them or communicated with them, except for one tweet encouraging people to follow @DevinCow.Experts generally say the law protects large internet platforms like Twitter, Facebook and YouTube from liability based on what their users publish. Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act says they should not “be treated as the publisher or speaker” of the content — allowing the platforms to exist without having to preapprove every post for potential legal issues.But the complaint by Mr. Nunes seeks to portray the tweets directed at him as evidence of larger efforts by Twitter to undermine Republicans — a frequent rallying cry of conservatives. Mr. Nunes was a key figure in the House’s Russia investigation, and a frequent target for critics who said he was abusing his authority by impeding investigations to protect Mr. Trump.“As part of its agenda to squelch Nunes’ voice, cause him extreme pain and suffering, influence the 2018 Congressional election, and distract, intimidate and interfere with Nunes’ investigation into corruption and Russian involvement in the 2016 Presidential Election, Twitter did absolutely nothing,” the complaint said.Twitter declined to comment on the lawsuit. But in public statements, including contentious House committee hearings in September, executives have denied any political bias or agendas. Jack Dorsey, the chief executive of Twitter, told the House committee they had found no difference in the reach of tweets by Democrats and those by Republicans.Mr. Nunes repeated the debunked claim that the social network was “shadow banning” Republicans, including him. Shadow banning — the act of a platform allowing someone to post but not allowing others to see the post, effectively making them invisible — became a political catch phrase in July, when a Vice News article used the term to characterize a Twitter bug that was affecting some prominent conservatives.In fact, the bug affected their accounts only briefly by not showing up on the network’s search results when a user searched for their names; the reach of their posts was unaffected. But the assertion was still used by many, including Mr. Trump, as evidence of bias against conservatives.The lawsuit by Mr. Nunes had the perhaps unintended effect of sharply increasing the reach of @DevinCow, the parody account that had around 1,200 followers before the lawsuit was filed. The account was up to 46,000 followers as of Tuesday morning and rapidly growing.“I’m not quitting my day job,” the account posted on Monday.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alexander Burns and Lisa LererWASHINGTON — Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, a moderate Republican who is considering a primary challenge to President Trump, said on Saturday that Mr. Trump’s victory in 2016 was an “anomaly” and urged his party to work on appealing to voters outside its “shrinking base.”Mr. Hogan said in an interview that he was not actively preparing to run against Mr. Trump and acknowledged that the president remained popular with his fellow Republicans. But in an interview during the National Governors Association conference in Washington, Mr. Hogan said he was open to running and listening to entreaties from Mr. Trump’s Republican critics.Mr. Hogan, 62, said that while many Republican voters feel a sense of loyalty to a president from their party, he was not convinced that Mr. Trump had a “lock” on the Republican coalition. Citing his own performance in the midterm elections, when he won re-election handily in a racially diverse blue state, Mr. Hogan suggested he was the kind of leader who could broaden the party’s appeal.“I think there are a lot of Republicans that are concerned about the future and that want us to continue to be a bigger tent and to reach a wider audience and to not alienate people and not to be as divisive,” Mr. Hogan said.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]But Mr. Hogan also indicated that he diverges from much of the Republican base on important matters besides his unfavorable view of Mr. Trump. He criticized Republicans in Congress for having tried to repeal the Affordable Care Act without proposing a suitable alternative and declined to express a personal assessment of whether the Senate had been right to confirm Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.And asked whether he believed Roe v. Wade, which made abortion legal nationwide, had been correctly decided by the court, Mr. Hogan replied in the affirmative: “I think so.”Mr. Hogan has said in the past that he is personally opposed to abortion but pledged not to try to impose restrictions on the procedure as governor.Of Justice Kavanaugh, Mr. Hogan said he was satisfied that the confirmation process had been carried out properly but said he did not see it as his role to weigh in on the suitability of Supreme Court nominees.“The president appoints, the Senate confirms, they had a hearing,” Mr. Hogan said. “I’m not a part of it.”Mr. Hogan said that if he were to run against Mr. Trump, they would “differ quite a bit” on policy, though he allowed that there would be areas of overlap. He has branded himself in Maryland as a fiscal conservative focused on job creation and economic development, and he noted that in some respects his economic ideas would match those of the president.“On the economic issues, some of it might be fairly similar, and I think he’s done a fairly decent job on the economy,” Mr. Hogan said, before adding: “We might differ on trade, we might differ on many other things.”Mr. Hogan said he had no timeline for deciding on a presidential campaign, but noted that winning candidates in the past have waited until “late summer or early fall” to launch their candidacies.Another moderate Republican from the East, former Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts, has already taken steps to oppose Mr. Trump in the primaries and announced the creation of an exploratory committee this month.So far, Mr. Trump has opted not to go after Mr. Hogan personally, despite the president’s tendency to unleash ferocious retribution on dissident figures in his own party. Mr. Hogan said Mr. Trump maintained that restraint in a speech he gave to Republican governors on Friday night.“He spoke for an hour and 10 or 15 minutes, off script, and didn’t mention me,” Mr. Hogan said. “So, I was kind of pleased.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan BlinderMark Harris, the North Carolina Republican who nearly won a seat in Congress last year but saw his political fortunes collapse after the revelation that his campaign had financed a fraud-tainted voter-turnout effort, said on Tuesday that he would not run in a new election.In a statement on Tuesday, less than one week after the North Carolina State Board of Elections ordered a new contest for the seat, Mr. Harris attributed his decision to medical issues that included two recent strokes and issues with his memory and recall, saying the Ninth District deserved “to have someone at full strength during the new campaign.”“It is my hope that in the upcoming primary, a solid conservative leader will emerge to articulate the critical issues that face our nation,” said Mr. Harris, an evangelical pastor from Charlotte.Mr. Harris’s decision was not especially surprising in the wake of an evidentiary hearing last week in Raleigh, where state officials and witnesses described an absentee ballot effort that was rife with misconduct. Although Mr. Harris denied any personal wrongdoing, he testified that he had hired the contractor at the center of the scandal, L. McCrae Dowless Jr., and he acknowledged that he gave “incorrect” testimony to the state board last Thursday.[Read: Inside a Fly-by-Night Operation to Harvest Ballots in North Carolina]At the time, Mr. Harris blamed his recent health problems, and in his announcement on Tuesday, he cited his medical history and plans for surgery as factors in his decision not to run again.The state board has not yet set a timetable for the new election, and Democrats are expected to mount an aggressive campaign. Dan McCready, the Democratic nominee in last fall’s race, said on Friday that he would run in the new contest. Prominent Democratic officials and groups have already begun to coalesce around Mr. McCready, a former Marine who has been among his party’s most prized candidates.“I view my job as to make the case to everyone in this district, whether they’re Republican, independent or Democrat,” Mr. McCready said in an interview on Friday. “I hope to bring a leadership to Washington that people can be proud of.”What is still uncertain is how much the wrongdoing associated with last year’s vote — conduct that a prosecutor said last week could soon lead to criminal charges — will loom over this new election. But Mr. Harris’s decision not to run could limit that line of attack, and Republican officials have expressed optimism that the Ninth District campaign will eventually focus on policy issues.Still, Mr. McCready suggested that he could use the Harris-funded operation, which witnesses said included the illegal collection and completion of absentee ballots, to remind voters of the turmoil that enveloped the Ninth.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa TobinThe investigation into a congressional seat narrowly won by a Republican reveals a detailed playbook for how election fraud can happen in the United States.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: For months, allegations of fraud have swirled around a congressional race in North Carolina’s Ninth District. But the Republican at the center of the controversy has held on. Why he’s finally giving up. It’s Wednesday, February 27.archived recordingAs directed by law, the clerk of the House has prepared the official role of the representatives-elect.alan blinderSo it was January 3rd and hundreds and hundreds of members of Congress are coming to Capitol Hill to be sworn in for the new Congress after a really bruising midterm election.archived recordingCertificates of election, 434 seats in the 116th Congress have been received by the clerk of the House.alan blinderBut as everyone shows up on Capitol Hill, there’s one seat everyone knows is going to remain empty.archived recordingThe clerk has not received a certificate of election for the Ninth District of the state of North Carolina.alan blinderAnd that’s the House seat from North Carolina’s Ninth District.michael barbaroAlan Blinder covers the American South for The Times.alan blinderThe story of that seat, and why it was empty on January 3, is this extraordinary tale of election fraud, the scale of which we’ve not really seen very often in American politics.michael barbaroSo Alan, take us back to when this story starts. Who was supposed to fill that seat in North Carolina?alan blinderWell, that depends on who you ask. If you ask the Republicans, Mark Harris was destined for that seat in Congress.archived recording (mark harris)And I want you to know that — this evening — that this is a journey that really has been two years in the making. But I’m glad to report tonight, it’s just getting started.alan blinderMark Harris, on election night, thinks that he has managed to pull off a victory against Dan McCready, who was one of the most prized Democratic candidates of last year. He thought he had won the election by about 905 votes.archived recording (mark harris)I’m going to Washington to be your voice in the Ninth Congressional District.alan blinderSo Mark Harris goes on to Washington, goes to new member orientation. But back in North Carolina, people are starting to think that some of the numbers in his election look a little fishy. And people just started to wonder, is there something that went wrong in this campaign that let Mark Harris win?archived recordingNow at 10, an election controversy — allegations of fraud in one of the country’s tightest races.michael barbaroAnd what exactly seemed off about his election? What was it that was so fishy?alan blinderFrankly, a lot of things seemed off. There was a concern about the number of absentee ballots, especially in one county.archived recordingWhen Mark Harris declared victory, he sang Bladen County’s praises.archived recording (mark harris)Thank God for Bladen and Union counties. [CHEERING]archived recordingOne month later, no one is laughing or applauding as state investigators look into the results of the Ninth District election.alan blinderMark Harris won something like 60-some odd percent of absentee ballots in Bladen County. And what was unusual about that is Republicans accounted for less than 20 percent of the absentee ballots. So he won well more than half while registered Republicans accounted for less than a fifth of those ballots.michael barbaroAnd that math doesn’t quite make any sense, because it would mean he was winning non-Republican absentee ballots, which is surprising.alan blinderSomething smelled really wrong to a lot of people looking at those numbers.michael barbaroAnd how does Mark Harris explain all this after the election?alan blinderHe says he won it fair and square. He says he ran an aggressive campaign. That’s what Republicans say. They say that they made a really concerted push. They knew it would be a tight race. And they pulled out all the stops and were looking for votes wherever they could find them.michael barbaroHm.alan blinderWell, the state isn’t so sure that Mark Harris is the clear winner. And they start digging into what happened. And meanwhile in North Carolina, a bunch of us reporters are driving around, looking for anything we can find about what might have happened. We’re knocking on doors. We’re asking people, have you ever met anyone who came to collect your ballot, for example. And it doesn’t take long before we start to learn about a man named McCrae Dowless.archived recordingWe’re learning more about the man at the center of the District Nine election fraud investigation and how he operates.alan blinderMcCrae Dowless is a longtime political operative in Bladen County. He’s in his 60s now.archived recordingThis is McCrae Dowless. Here’s a picture of him on the left.alan blinderHe’s rail-thin. He’s pretty slight in stature. Smokes a lot of cigarettes.archived recordingMark Harris is not the only candidate that Dowless is connected to.alan blinderHe was known as the elections guru, if you will, in Bladen County. He actually got a certificate for that once.michael barbaroA certificate saying that he’s, essentially, the guy who knows the system best?alan blinderHe’s the guy who knows where to find votes in Bladen County.archived recordingHe wanted me go out and get the absentee ballots.alan blinderAnd he had a long track record of working with Republicans and Democrats on their elections and helping people really scrounge up absentee votes to come up with winning margins.archived recordingMr. Dowless is accused of wrongdoing — basically using workers to forge signatures and collect ballots, which you can’t even do in North Carolina.alan blinderAs reporters are digging into McCrae Dowless’s past, we realize very quickly that he’s not just your run of the mill political operative.archived recordingDowless is part of the 2014 McVicker campaign, but was paid in a way that would not show up on campaign finance reports.alan blinderHe’s a guy with felony convictions for fraud and perjury.archived recordingIn another document from the suit, Dowless himself confirms he worked for the 2014 campaign to get out the vote.alan blinderHe’s a guy who’s been investigated in the past for his political work, but was never prosecuted. And it was not long after that that Mark Harris hired McCrae Dowless and said, I want you to help me find absentee voters in Bladen County and help me win an election next year. At that point, we started to put the pieces together. And we started to realize that there was probably something very wrong that had happened in Bladen County. But we didn’t know exactly what had happened until last week. So last week, I went up to North Carolina for a hearing, where the state was going to start showing its evidence of what it found during this investigation.archived recordingLet’s start with by thanking the North Carolina State Bar for allowing us to use their building to conduct this hearing.alan blinderSo the hearing room is packed on Monday morning. This courtroom where lawyers usually go when they’re in trouble, but it was one of the bigger courtrooms in Raleigh. So we all crowd in there, waiting to hear for the first time what on earth the state has come up with.archived recordingBy statute to the opening of each meeting, we must read a conflict-of-interest statement and check to see if any members —alan blinderMark Harris himself is in the courtroom, sitting among his lawyers. And the first person to speak is the executive director of the Elections Board.archived recordingWe believe the evidence that we will provide today will show that a coordinated, unlawful and substantially resourced absentee ballot scheme operated in the 2018 general election —alan blinderAnd she immediately says that investigators had found an unlawful and coordinated effort to try to influence absentee voting.archived recordingWitness is yours, [INAUDIBLE]. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good morning, Miss Britt.alan blinderOne of the state’s star witnesses, a woman named Lisa Britt, takes the stand. And Lisa Britt is the stepdaughter of McCrae Dowless. And she worked for him during the 2018 campaign.archived recordingDid Mr. Dowless asked you to go out and request absentee ballots from potential voters.archived recording (lisa britt)He did.alan blinderAnd she starts to describe how McCrae Dowless’s operation worked.archived recording (lisa britt)Bladen County is a poor county. So we were actually going out with absentee request forms to give people the opportunity, so everybody would have the opportunity to vote —alan blinderIt just becomes this catalog of crime.archived recording (lisa britt)Some of them we did. On some — it may have been people who had voted in previous elections or whatever. So we would fill out the top part.alan blinderThey would collect absentee ballots. They would fill in absentee ballots. They would forge signatures as witnesses for absentee ballots.archived recordingDid he provide you with instructions about not admitting to collecting ballots?archived recording (lisa britt)Yes, sir.alan blinderAnd the operation was designed to make sure Mark Harris had enough absentee votes to win the election. It was an effort that was rooted in fraud, rooted in misconduct. And it was supposed to put Mark Harris over the top.archived recording (speaker 1)And I would excuse Miss Britt.archived recording (speaker 2)Call Kelly Hendrix.alan blinderSo as the hearing goes on, we hear from more and more witnesses. We hear from another woman who worked for McCrae Dowless.archived recording[INAUDIBLE].alan blinderWe hear from local elections officials.archived recordingWould you state your name, please?archived recording (sandra dowless)Sandra Dowless.alan blinderWe hear from a consultant for Mark Harris.archived recordingMs. Strach, are you ready for your next witness, please?alan blinderBut then there’s a big surprise.archived recording[INAUDIBLE] call John Harris.alan blinderAnd that’s when the state calls Mark Harris’s son, John Harris, up to the witness stand.archived recordingDo you have an attorney here with you, even though you —archived recording (john harris)I do not, but I am one and am representing myself in this capacity.alan blinderJohn Harris is a 29-year-old lawyer for the Department of Justice. He is one of the single most self-assured lawyers I think I’ve ever seen. And he comes up to the witness stand, and he starts to tell a really remarkable and compelling story.archived recording (john harris)I expressed my concerns, based on everything that I did know up to that point.alan blinderFor weeks and weeks and weeks, Mark Harris had been denying, to just about everyone who would listen, that he knew of any kind of wrongdoing involving McCrae Dowless, that he had no reason to be suspicious of him. And he actually admitted that he had been the person responsible for hiring McCrae Dowless. But then John Harris gets up on the witness stand. And the state pulls out an email that John Harris sent to his father the day after Mark Harris met with McCrae Dowless.archived recording (john harris)This is an email that I sent to my father. And I copied my mother.alan blinderThe email was John Harris, the son, telling his father that McCrae Dowless is trouble. That he had concerns about whether his operation was on the up and up.archived recording (john harris)And so that’s what this meant, to summarize how these numbers seemed so off.alan blinderI think we realized we were watching a political collapse happen right in front of us.archived recording (john harris)I just want to say this in closing. I love my dad. And I love my mom. O.K.?alan blinderAnd I think Mark Harris may have realized that, too.archived recording (john harris)I think that they made mistakes in this process. And they certainly did things differently than I would have done them.alan blinderMark Harris was crying from where he was watching all of this. I mean, he was weeping as he watched his son testify.archived recording (john harris)And frankly, when I’m coming out of this process, I’m just left thinking that we can all do a lot better than this. And that’s all I have, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.archived recordingThank you. You are excused. Would you state your name, please?archived recording (mark harris)I’m Mark Harris.alan blinderAnd then Mark Harris himself takes the stand. And his day begins as a disaster, and it gets worse.archived recordingYou didn’t ask Dowless, are you harvesting ballots?archived recording (mark harris)Well, he had made that clear, that he was not.alan blinderHe starts telling the Elections Board about how he had, in fact, hired McCrae Dowless. But that he didn’t know that McCrae Dowless or any of his workers were doing anything wrong.archived recording (mark harris)Well, I had no reason to hide this email. In fact, it was my understanding it was going to be produced.alan blinderEventually, Harris misleads the board with a few instances of what his critics thought was perjury.archived recording (mark harris)I did not consider John’s to be a warning that this was a problem and could be a real serious potential problem.alan blinderAnd the state’s lawyers realized that. And pretty quickly, it becomes clear that Mark Harris’s own lawyers realized that, too.michael barbaroSo then what happens?archived recordingI would ask for a short recess to have a discussion in chambers with the board.alan blinderHis lawyer calls a recess. And there is a lot of confusion, frankly, in the courtroom over what on earth is happening.archived recordingTake our lunch break now, then. And we’ll come back.alan blinderWe all go to lunch. Meanwhile, there is some closed-door negotiating happening. We reconvene a little later.archived recordingLet’s start by saying, Dr. Harris, you know you’re still under oath?archived recording (mark harris)Yes.archived recordingAnd you’re still here voluntarily —alan blinderAnd Mark Harris comes back out to the witness stand and surprises everyone.archived recording (mark harris)Mr. Chairman, I have a statement that I wish to make.alan blinderHe gets up and talks about how he’d had some medical problems.archived recording (mark harris)On January 18, I went to the hospital. After battling what we thought was bronchitis, I developed a severe infection that actually caused me to become septic. In the process of that illness, I experienced two strokes, from which I’m still recovering. Though I thought I was ready to undergo the rigors of this hearing and am getting stronger, I clearly am not. And I struggled this morning with both recall and confusion.alan blinderHow he had offered what he called incorrect testimony —archived recording (mark harris)Through the testimony I’ve listened to over the past three days, I believe a new election should be called.alan blinderAnd then he calls for a new election.michael barbaroWow.alan blinderYeah.archived recording (mark harris)It has become clear to me that the public’s confidence in the Ninth District’s seat general election has been undermined to an extent that a new election is warranted. Mr. Chairman, that concludes my statement.michael barbaroMark Harris, with the lead that he has in this race, is suddenly calling for a brand new election?alan blinderYeah. I sent an all-caps email to my editors.michael barbaroWhat did it say?alan blinderI think it was something like, Harris calls for new election.michael barbaroThat’s concise.alan blinderI mean, this was not what I was planning for. I think I had told my editors that morning there was no chance this would be resolved today.michael barbaroMm-hmm.alan blinderI mean, in the courtroom, you had dozens and dozens of people who had been listening to testimony. They’ve watched Mark Harris for months say that he deserves to be a member of the United States Congress.michael barbaroMm-hmm.alan blinderAnd then he just gets up and suddenly calls for a new election. It was one of those moments when you heard a lot of people gasp. It wasn’t just one person gasping. A whole bunch of us gasped.archived recording (speaker 1)All right. Thank you, sir. No further? I call this meeting adjourned. Thank you.archived recording (speaker 2)Thank you.alan blinderSo Mark Harris leaves the room. And a bunch of TV cameras chase after him. Then this five-member Elections Board votes unanimously to have a new election. That was on Thursday afternoon. And I spent the next few days asking Republicans the big question. Will Mark Harris run again? And on Tuesday afternoon —archived recordingBreaking news out of North Carolina, Republican Mark Harris says he will not run in a new election for the state’s Ninth District. In a statement, he said, quote, “Given my health situation, the need to regain full strength, and the timing of this surgery the last week of March, I’ve decided not to file in the new election for Congressional District Nine.”alan blinderHe cited his health and said he would not be a candidate the next time around.michael barbaroSo there will be a new election. But Mark Harris will not be a candidate?alan blinderThere will be a new election. And Mark Harris will not be in it. So in the meantime, the people of the Ninth District of North Carolina won’t have any representation in Congress. And that Ninth District seat will remain empty.michael barbaroAlan, what have we learned from what happened in the Ninth District of North Carolina?alan blinderWell, we’ve gotten a really detailed playbook about how election fraud can happen in the United States. We’ve seen how absentee ballots are prone to abuse. And we’ve also seen a real embarrassment for Republicans in North Carolina and around the country. For years and years, Republicans have been sounding an alarm about the possibility of fraud at the ballot box. And for years and years, Democrats have been saying that Republicans were blowing up those worries. They were using fraud as a pretext to be able to discriminate. And now in North Carolina, we have the biggest case of election fraud in memory. And it was bankrolled by a Republican campaign. This was not voter fraud. This was election fraud — a lot of egg on a lot of people’s faces.michael barbaroElection fraud, not voter fraud — and why does that distinction matter, do you think, Alan?alan blinderRepublican politicians have spent years trying to argue that individual voters are the problem when it comes to fraud in elections. What happened in North Carolina had nothing to do with individual voters. It was all about a coordinated effort to sway an election. It was a Republican campaign paying for illegal conduct. That was the problem.archived recording (mitch mcconnell)Now there’s a new interest in ensuring the sanctity of American elections. I’ve been focused for decades on protecting the integrity of elections.michael barbaroSo Alan, on Tuesday morning, Republican Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell gave a speech —archived recording (mitch mcconnell)Now Madam President, for years and years, every Republican who dared to call for common-sense safeguards for America’s ballots was demonized by Democrats and their allies.michael barbaro— in which he declared that what happened in North Carolina is, in his telling, evidence that there is, quote, “very real voter fraud happening in the country.”archived recording (mitch mcconnell)Now that an incident of very real voter fraud has become national news, these longstanding Democratic talking points have been really quiet. Haven’t heard much lately from the Democrats about how fraud never happens.michael barbaroAnd he said that Democrats should look at this and realize that the Republican argument is right — that there is a problem, and that they should accept it.archived recording (mitch mcconnell)So I’d like to welcome my friends on the left to their new realization. They’ve just discovered that this subject really matters.alan blinderThe lesson of the Ninth District is not that fraud happens. The lesson of the Ninth District is how fraud happens. Maybe the Senate majority leader doesn’t know the difference between election fraud and voter fraud. But a lot of people on Tuesday thought he was just conflating the two and trying to misdirect and muddy the waters and make people think that what Republicans had been warning about for years happened. But it didn’t.michael barbaroAlan, thank you very much. We appreciate it.alan blinderMy pleasure.“I’ve come to realize over the course of the last couple of months that what we’re up against is politicians who put themselves before the people they’re supposed to serve,” Mr. McCready said. “What we saw this week was a politician who let his own desire for power color his view, and he did the wrong thing instead of the right thing.”Even before Mr. Harris announced his decision on Tuesday, many leading Republicans had begun to distance themselves from him in public and in private, seemingly dimming the prospects for a rematch of last fall’s contest. In that race, Mr. Harris appeared to prevail by 905 votes, but state officials soon refused to certify him as the winner and announced the inquiry that ultimately led to the new election, the first redo of a congressional House seat in more than 40 years.[Read: Republican Cries Against Voter Fraud Go Mostly Quiet After Scheme Tied to Party]On Tuesday, Mr. Harris said he would support Stony Rushing, a commissioner from Union County, for the Republican nomination. The endorsement came one day after former Gov. Pat McCrory, who was among the most prominent Republicans to consider a campaign in the Ninth, said he would not run. Instead, Mr. McCrory said he was considering a comeback bid for governor in 2020, or a Senate run in 2022.The Ninth, which includes part of Charlotte and runs through much of southeastern North Carolina, will not have representation in Congress until the new election has been completed and certified. Republicans have held the district’s House seat since 1963. The state’s Third District, which is on the Atlantic coast and includes the Outer Banks, has been vacant since earlier this month when Walter B. Jones, a Republican serving his 13th term, died. A special election for that seat has not been scheduled.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the number of terms served by Walter B. Jones. He was serving his 13th term when he died, not his 12th. An earlier version also referred to him as a Democrat; while he served as a state representative as a Democrat, he later became a Republican.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Carl Hulse and Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — Senator Shelley Moore Capito, Republican of West Virginia, spent the last two weeks hammering out a deal on federal spending and border security with colleagues from both parties, reassured by a sense that Congress was finally asserting itself as a civil, stabilizing force.The feeling did not last. On Friday, President Trump mounted one of the most serious executive branch challenges to congressional authority in decades, circumventing Congress with an emergency declaration. It would allow him to unilaterally divert billions of dollars to a border wall and presented his Republican allies on Capitol Hill, who labored on a legislative compromise, with the excruciating choice of either defending their institution or bowing to his whims.The president’s move left Senate Republicans sharply divided, and it remains to be seen whether they will act collectively to try to stop Mr. Trump or how far into uncharted territory they are willing to follow a headstrong president operating with no road map beyond his own demands.“With him you always have to expect the unexpected,” said Ms. Capito, speaking on the phone from her kitchen in Charleston, W.Va., exhausted from a week of late-night talks at the Capitol.The Republican resistance to Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration was much more pronounced in the Senate than in the House, where a few Republicans — in the minority but more closely aligned to Mr. Trump — groused. But most of the conservative rank and file embraced it.After threatening to kill the spending compromise needed to keep the government open, Mr. Trump opted to cite a national emergency to pry loose additional funding to build a wall longer than the 55 miles in the bipartisan agreement. It was the divisive step that Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, Ms. Capito and most other Republicans in the Senate had forcefully urged him not to take, because it would establish a precedent they feared future Democratic presidents would use against them.The decision left Mr. McConnell, a professed guardian of the Senate’s prerogatives and power, joining with Mr. Trump in supporting an executive branch end run greater than any of the incursions into the legislative process he often accused President Obama of pursuing. Fellow senators said Mr. McConnell, a former member of the Appropriations Committee, was unhappy with the declaration but saw it as the only way to pass the spending bill.Some top Republicans, led by Mr. McConnell, pivoted quickly to say they supported the president’s action because it was the only option left to him after Congress failed to meet his demands for wall funding. Mr. McConnell has even begun offering the president strategic advice on how best to push his plan, aides said.But Mr. McConnell is also warning Mr. Trump of the damage it could inflict on the party heading into the 2020 elections. Other Republicans portrayed it as a gross violation of the constitutional separation of powers, a blatant disregard by the president for Congress’s fundamental role in determining how federal dollars are spent.“He is usurping congressional authority,” Senator Susan Collins of Maine, a veteran member of the Appropriations Committee, said in an interview. “If the president can reallocate for his purposes billions of dollars in federal funding that Congress has approved for specific purposes and have been signed into law, that has the potential to render the appropriations process meaningless.”Several other Senate Republicans publicly and privately joined Ms. Collins in describing the move as a flagrant breach of congressional jurisdiction and a dangerous precedent. Their numbers raised the clear possibility that enough Republican defectors could join with Senate Democrats to provide a majority to disapprove of the president’s decision should the opportunity arise.Four Republicans might be enough to join with Senate Democrats and pass legislation rebuking the president, and leadership aides put the number of potential defectors as high as 10. But the unrest seemed well short of the sort of partywide revolt necessary to override a veto by Mr. Trump of any legislative attempt to prevent his declaration of an emergency, leaving a legal challenge as the only recourse.“I would not vote for disapproval,” said Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama and the Appropriations Committee chairman who led the spending negotiations. “He’s got the power to defend the country, to defend the borders, to protect the people as commander in chief. I believe the courts would uphold him on this.”Despite reservations about many of the actions taken by Mr. Trump and the White House over the past two years, most congressional Republicans have been reluctant to put too much distance between themselves and the president given his grip on Republican voters, many of whom consider the wall a national necessity. Mr. Trump exerts a powerful hold on his party, and lawmakers are cowed by the belief that opposing him will end in their political destruction.Still, the emergency declaration was a direct assault on the ability of lawmakers themselves to restrain the president, and it raised expectations that more could balk at what was widely viewed as a serious case of executive overreach.“Somebody is going to have to say enough is enough,” said Trent Lott, the former Senate leader from Mississippi, who questioned the wisdom of the move.Even those senators who said they were willing to abide by the president’s decision did so grudgingly, acknowledging that it was a bad way to govern and could have significant consequences.“I don’t see anything that necessarily violates the law, but that is a very different question from whether we should be doing it,” said Senator Mike Lee, a conservative Republican of Utah who is known for his view that Congress has handed over too much power to the executive branch.“We have relinquished power voluntarily because we don’t want to make judgment calls that make people angry, so we leave it to the executive,” he said. “It’s almost as if Congress doesn’t want to go through the difficult task of lawmaking.”Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida spoke for many House Republicans in praising the president’s action. “I’m proud of our president for boldly declaring he will not allow politics to stand in the way of the United States’ national security interests,” said Mr. Gaetz, a Trump ally.Democrats were united in their condemnation, accusing Mr. Trump of claiming a false crisis because he could not win over Congress with his argument. They said the president was so desperate to build the wall as a difficult re-election campaign loomed that he was willing to shred the Constitution to do so.“This is not how you use national emergencies,” said Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago, a former White House chief of staff to President Barack Obama. “He is literally creating a constitutional crisis because he has a campaign crisis.”With Republicans controlling both chambers of Congress during his first term, Mr. Trump never had to issue a veto. But that streak could be broken with a Democratic-led House joining with Democrats in the Senate and the right number of Republicans to support legislation voicing disapproval of the emergency declaration.Party strategists said a veto could even bolster Mr. Trump by showing his backers that he was willing to take on Congress over his wall and that it was unlikely there would be enough votes to override it. The divide, though, could become a political problem for embattled Republican incumbents up for re-election next year, like Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado, who will face competing calls back home to break with the president or stick with him.Some Republican senators said they were less concerned about the political implications than the effect on Congress. Members of the Appropriations Committee said that their spending bills had been carefully constructed and that shifting money could stall projects that both they and federal agencies including the Pentagon had deemed necessary. And they fear consolidating too much power in the hands of a president.“It is inconsistent with the U.S. Constitution because, after the American Revolution against a king, our founders chose not to create a chief executive with the power to tax the people and spend their money any way he chooses,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee.“This is a fundamental constitutional responsibility of Congress,” said Ms. Collins. “We should be opposing this strongly.”There is a small chance that Mr. Trump will accept a list of existing programs, compiled by Mr. Alexander, that Republicans believe could be used for wall money, rendering the emergency declaration moot. But nobody is holding out much hope that will happen.Ms. Capito said she would spend the holiday weekend weighing what to do next. She encouraged Mr. Trump to do the same.“He’s got to ask himself, ‘What are the ramifications of what I’m doing?’” she said. “If the resolution comes from the House to the Senate, where are those votes going to fall? What does that do to my momentum? He’s got to be considering that, I’m certain. Maybe he’s willing to take whatever could happen, maybe that’s not bothering him.”Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.OpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Haberman and Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — In an atmosphere of high drama and low tactics, Michael D. Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer, prepared for his explosive public testimony about the president on Wednesday even as a Republican member of Congress threatened to reveal what he said were Mr. Cohen’s extramarital affairs.Mr. Cohen’s long-awaited appearance before the House Committee on Oversight and Reform, coming after he spent Tuesday behind closed doors answering questions from the Senate Intelligence Committee, is likely to be among the more revealing and polarizing moments of Mr. Trump’s presidency.[Mr. Cohen plans to use his testimony on Wednesday to unspool a narrative laced with regret of his decade working alongside Mr. Trump.]With the partisan stakes so high, Representative Matt Gaetz, a firebrand Republican from Florida, went after Mr. Cohen pre-emptively with a personal attack that some Democrats said amounted to witness intimidation.“Hey @MichaelCohen212 - Do your wife & father-in-law know about your girlfriends? Maybe tonight would be a good time for that chat. I wonder if she’ll remain faithful when you’re in prison. She’s about to learn a lot,” Mr. Gaetz said on Twitter.In a statement, Lanny J. Davis, a lawyer and spokesman for Mr. Cohen, said he would not respond to what he called “Mr. Gaetz’s despicable lies and personal smears,” but called on both parties to “repudiate his words and his conduct.”Late Wednesday night, Mr. Gaetz walked back his remarks after Speaker Nancy Pelosi offered a warning, saying that such comments could affect the committee’s ability to “obtain the truthful and complete information necessary.”“While it is important 2 create context around the testimony of liars like Michael Cohen, it was NOT my intent to threaten, as some believe I did,” Mr. Gaetz tweeted. “I’m deleting the tweet & I should have chosen words that better showed my intent. I’m sorry.”In his public testimony on Wednesday, Mr. Cohen plans to describe “in granular detail” a scheme hatched in the run-up to the 2016 presidential election to make hush money payments to a pornographic film actress who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump, people familiar with his plans said. And he will say the scheme, which led to a campaign finance-related charge against him, was initiated by Mr. Trump.Mr. Cohen will not be allowed to publicly discuss matters related to the continuing special counsel investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russian election manipulation efforts. Those topics were sure to have been covered on Tuesday in his closed-door appearance with the Senate Intelligence Committee and will be again on Thursday in secret testimony to the House Intelligence Committee.Mr. Cohen’s testimony — coming as the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, prepares to conclude his investigation, and with House Democrats starting their own — signals the beginning of what could be a perilous new phase for Mr. Trump’s presidency.Mr. Gaetz’s threat and the enraged reaction to it reflected the stakes on Capitol Hill in anticipation of Wednesday’s open hearing.Neither Mr. Cohen nor members of the Senate Intelligence Committee provided details of his testimony on Tuesday. Mr. Cohen began his meeting with the senators by apologizing for lying to them in 2017 about the duration of time during the 2016 campaign that the Trump Organization was in discussions about a Trump Tower project in Moscow, people familiar with what took place said.Mr. Cohen emerged from a secure room in the Senate after more than eight hours of questioning and told reporters that he appreciated “the opportunity that was given to me” to tell the truth.“I look forward to tomorrow to be able to, in my voice, tell the American people my story,” he said. “I am going to let the American people decide exactly who’s telling the truth.”Senators who sat through the session indicated that Mr. Cohen’s testimony had made a strong impression on them. Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said Mr. Cohen appeared to be “humbled by the experience he has been through and what he knows lies ahead of him.”Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the panel’s top Democrat, said the committee’s investigation was the most important thing he was doing in the Senate. “Nothing I heard from today dissuades me from that view,” he said.Mr. Trump and his allies have been preparing for days for the appearance and for the potential for a split-screen drama as the president meets in Vietnam with the leader of North Korea, Kim Jong-un. The president’s aides have been anxious about the effect that the testimony might have on him.Even before Mr. Gaetz’s tweet, Mr. Trump’s Republican allies in the House were prepared to aggressively question Mr. Cohen’s credibility. They have signaled that they will dig into his own past business dealings and publicly documented attempts to monetize his relationship with the president to try to paint Mr. Cohen as a liar fabricating stories to lessen his time in jail.In a statement on Tuesday morning, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, denounced Mr. Cohen as a “disgraced felon” who was already “going to prison for lying to Congress and making other false statements.”“It’s laughable that anyone would take a convicted liar like Cohen at his word, and pathetic to see him given yet another opportunity to spread his lies,” she said.Mr. Gaetz’s tweet took the effort to undermine Mr. Cohen to another level.In a text earlier Wednesday, Mr. Gaetz rejected assertions that his tweet could amount to witness intimidation.“It’s testing the veracity and character of Michael Cohen,” he wrote. “That is allowed.”Like all members of Congress, Mr. Gaetz is covered under the “speech or debate” clause of the Constitution, which grants lawmakers wide latitude in their comments when Congress is in session and has been cited many times in the past as protection against punishment.A federal law makes it a crime to intimidate or threaten people in an attempt to influence, delay or prevent their testimony in official proceedings, and a congressional hearing certainly counts.It is not clear, though, whether a loose, ambiguous and public statement on social media qualifies and whether constitutional protections for congressional speech and debate would shield Mr. Gaetz from some forms of liability.Randall D. Eliason, a former federal prosecutor who teaches white-collar criminal law at George Washington University, said a successful criminal prosecution of Mr. Gaetz appeared to be unlikely on the available evidence.“There’s a real tendency these days to leap immediately to allegations of criminal misconduct,” Mr. Eliason said. “There are a lot of things that are reprehensible but not criminal. I think proving the required corrupt intent to obstruct justice based on a single, public tweet would be pretty difficult.”There are other possible remedies. The Constitution allows the House to “punish its members for disorderly behavior,” and it is at least conceivable that Mr. Gaetz could face some form of discipline from his colleagues.Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., a veteran Democrat from New Jersey, said on Twitter that Mr. Gaetz’s comments were “grossly unethical and probably illegal,” raising the possibility of witness intimidation.“House Ethics must investigate this disgrace and stain on our institution,” he wrote.Mr. Gaetz later defended his comments in a brief speech on the House floor, saying it is “entirely appropriate for any member of this body to challenge the truthfulness, veracity and character of people who have a history of lying and have a future that undoubtedly contains nothing but lies.”Mr. Gaetz has developed a reputation as a champion of Mr. Trump who, like the president, is unafraid of making statements many would consider outlandish. At a recent Judiciary Committee hearing on gun control, he got into an argument with parents of students killed last year in a massacre at a high school in Parkland, Fla., and sought to have them ejected.Mr. Cohen’s team has suggested that it is prepared for Republican efforts to impugn his credibility. Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty in November to violating campaign finance laws, financial crimes and lying to Congress in two separate prosecutions, one brought by federal prosecutors in Manhattan and the other by Mr. Mueller. Mr. Cohen was disbarred on Tuesday in New York State.Public testimony provides Mr. Cohen with an opportunity to tell his story under penalty of perjury before an audience of millions of people, about two months before he is scheduled to report to prison.Mr. Cohen has spent more than 70 hours with investigators for the special counsel investigating possible conspiracy by the Trump campaign with Russian officials, as well as with investigators from the Southern District of New York.Carl Hulse and Adam Liptak contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie KarniWASHINGTON — As a political appointee at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Lynne Patton has become one of the most prominent African-American officials in the Trump administration, and it was the color of her skin and her relationship with President Trump that led to her appearance during Michael D. Cohen’s congressional testimony on Wednesday.Before getting her job at HUD, Ms. Patton was an event planner in New York, and worked for the Trump Organization and for the Eric Trump Foundation. Anticipating Mr. Cohen’s accusation that President Trump was a racist, Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina, invited Ms. Patton to appear as a rebuttal to the charge.“You made some very demeaning comments about the president that Ms. Patton doesn’t agree with,” Mr. Meadows said, after Mr. Cohen called his former boss a racist and noted that, among other comments, “he told me that black people would never vote for him because they were too stupid.”As Ms. Patton, 46, stood silently behind him, Mr. Meadows argued that Ms. Patton’s loyalty to Mr. Trump proved that could not be true.“I asked Lynne to come today in her personal capacity to actually shed some light,” Mr. Meadows said. “She says that as a daughter of a man born in Birmingham, Ala., that there is no way that she would work for an individual who was racist.”Mr. Meadows asked that Ms. Patton’s “entire statement be put in the record,” but Ms. Patton never opened her mouth. And shortly after Mr. Meadows called her to stand behind him, she left the chamber. But the brief cameo ignited a heated exchange about race later in the hearing.Representative Rashida Tlaib, Democrat of Michigan, called it “insensitive” and possibly racist “to use a black woman as a prop.”“As a person of color in this committee, that is how I felt at that moment and I wanted to express that,” she said in the House Oversight and Reform Committee’s afternoon session with Mr. Cohen. “I’m saying that in itself it is a racist act.”Mr. Meadows fired back, noting that his own “nieces and nephews are people of color.” Appealing to Representative Elijah E. Cummings, the chairman of the committee, Mr. Meadows insisted that “to even go down this direction is wrong.”Mr. Cummings, a Maryland Democrat who is African-American, defended Mr. Meadows, calling him “one of my best friends.”Ms. Tlaib then said she did not intend to call him racist. “I do apologize if that’s what it sounded like,” she said. “I said someone in general. And as everybody knows in this chamber, I’m pretty direct.”But the idea that Ms. Patton’s mere presence and loyalty to the Trump family would somehow rebut the allegation that the president could be racist was widely and immediately criticized by Democrats, inside and outside the House chamber.The stunt “just shows how ignorant Republicans are when it comes to race,” Karine Jean-Pierre, a senior adviser to the progressive political organizing group MoveOn.org, wrote on Twitter. “It’s also offensive and beyond the pale.”Ms. Patton said she received an invitation from Mr. Meadows to appear at the hearing after he saw a picture on her Instagram account that she posted on Tuesday. Under a photograph of her smiling with Mr. Cohen at the Trump Grill, she described Mr. Cohen as one of her best friends for over a decade.“I am sad that Michael would — once again, on a world stage — levy unsubstantiated claims — particularly those of bigotry and racism — against a man who has single-handedly helped raise five of the most unbiased and open-minded children I’ve ever known,” she wrote.Ms. Patton said the statement submitted on Wednesday to the House committee was identical to a 387-word caption on her Instagram photo.Ms. Patton, who spoke at the Republican National Convention in 2016, has only risen in prominence in the Trump orbit after a tell-all book by Omarosa Manigault Newman, another prominent African-American official who spent years defending Mr. Trump.In a memoir she published after being fired from the  White House in December 2017, Ms. Manigault Newman also accused Mr. Trump of being racist. And in recordings she released while promoting the book, Ms. Manigault Newman put out a taped discussion she had with Ms. Patton about whether Mr. Trump had ever used the N-word. On the tape, they discuss the possibility that Mr. Trump used the word in a recorded conversation, but it remains unclear to them if he did.Since then, Ms. Patton, who is now HUD’s New York regional director and has recently drawn attention for spending a month in the city’s public housing, has been eager to demonstrate her loyalty to the Trump family.But Ms. Manigault Newman, who was watching Mr. Cohen’s testimony from home, said in an interview that her former colleague was simply being used.“Bringing Lynne in to this particular hearing was just for show,” she said. Referring to Mr. Trump’s practice of having staff members sign nondisclosure agreements, she said, “Everyone knows she’s under multiple NDA agreements, and she could not say anything disparaging about the president and the first family even if she wanted to.” Ms. Manigault-Newman added that she agreed with Mr. Cohen’s categorization of Mr. Trump as racist.Ms. Patton denies she has a nondisclosure agreement.“You don’t need an NDA when you’re simply telling the truth,” she said.An earlier version of a video caption with this article misspelled the given name of a political appointee at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. She is Lynne Patton, not Lynn.OpinionKashana CauleyAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn Thrush and Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — President Trump’s legislative path to a border wall has narrowed significantly on the eve of Tuesday’s State of the Union speech, and his fallback plan to circumvent Congress by declaring a state of emergency could create a major division in his own party.As he prepares to make his case to the largest national audience of the year, Mr. Trump appeared to be in an increasingly precarious position, unable to sway the wider public to his cause and unwilling, at least so far, to apply the persuasion and compromise that have gotten previous presidents out of political jams.Anxiety over the damage being inflicted on the party is growing. Last week, in a one-on-one meeting with the president, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, reportedly warned Mr. Trump that declaring a national emergency to build his wall would almost certainly spark a rebellion within his party — and a vote to overrule him. House and Senate negotiators have been moving toward a bipartisan agreement as early as Friday to keep the government funded after Feb. 15 — with or without the president’s support.But the president’s supporters continue to plead for unity.“This is the defining moment of his presidency,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who is one of Mr. Trump’s biggest supporters on Capitol Hill, speaking at an event in Greenville on Monday.“To every Republican, if you don’t stand behind this president, we’re not going to stand behind you when it comes to the wall,” said Mr. Graham, adding that he feared “a war within the Republican Party” if Republicans did not support Mr. Trump’s plans, including an emergency declaration.The president’s advisers have said the speech will focus on unity. But he is also expected to double down on the wall. In an Oval Office interview last week, he cast doubt on a settlement being hashed out by a bipartisan committee of 17 House members and senators before the Feb. 15 deadline, saying that anything short of his full demand would be “a waste of time.”At the same time, Mr. Trump continued to brandish the threat of an emergency declaration that would allow him to divert existing federal funding to the wall, an idea that has sparked heated opposition among Senate Republicans, who have grown increasingly comfortable in their defiance. On Monday, the Senate formally adopted an amendment to a broader Middle East policy bill, 70 to 26, that rebuked the president for what Republicans saw as a precipitous withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and Syria.In December, Republican senators broke with him to call for the withdrawal of American support for Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen, as they recoiled from his inaction in the face of the kingdom’s murder of a Washington Post columnist, Jamal Khashoggi.Mr. Trump is not expected to declare the state of emergency during Tuesday’s address. But he continues to threaten that he will divert funding for other military and infrastructure projects to build the wall, with or without congressional approval. He has told people close to him that he views the threat as his last remaining leverage in the fight.That has some Republicans openly fretting that such a declaration would embolden a Democratic president to declare a national emergency on climate change or gun violence.“It would be a bad precedent, I think, for the president to decide to invoke national security as a way to bypass a congressional logjam,” said Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania. “And I can imagine future presidents using that for purposes I would find very objectionable.”That sentiment has been expressed by about a dozen Republican senators, publicly and privately, including Roy Blunt of Missouri, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, Marco Rubio of Florida, Bill Cassidy of Louisiana and John Cornyn of Texas, who is considered to be among the most influential members of his party on immigration.“The whole idea that a president — whether it’s President Trump or President Warren or President Sanders — can declare an emergency and then somehow usurp the separation of powers and get into the business of appropriating money for specific projects without Congress getting involved is a serious constitutional question,” Mr. Cornyn said on Monday.But the most important critic of the declaration is Mr. McConnell. “I don’t think much of that idea,” Mr. McConnell said last month when asked about the declaration. “I hope he doesn’t go down that path.”Mr. McConnell, according to three people familiar with his thinking, has grown increasingly frustrated with the White House in recent days, telling associates that he thinks members of the president’s staff have failed to adequately brief him on the legislative and political perils of moving ahead with a disaster declaration.During his White House meeting, disclosed by The Washington Post, Mr. McConnell predicted that Speaker Nancy Pelosi would have the House immediately pass a “resolution of disapproval” attempting to block him from using existing funding for the wall.Any senator from either party could then demand a vote, because the resolution would be deemed “privileged.” Mr. McConnell told Mr. Trump that he would have no choice but to schedule a floor vote on the measure within 15 days, and Republican aides have estimated that between three and 10 Republicans would side with the chamber’s Democrats against Mr. Trump.That would force the president into a politically costly effort to keep the Senate from overriding his veto of the resolution, even as Democrats moved to block him in the courts.“He’s been talking about all this for a month, in front of the cameras,” said Don Stewart, a spokesman for Mr. McConnell, who played down the exchange.The leader delivered a similar message to Vice President Mike Pence and the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, three weeks ago during negotiations to reopen the government. Since then, both men have counseled the president to move cautiously on the emergency declaration, according to a senior administration official.Democrats have begun drafting legislation that would remove the president’s ability to shift money from one project to another. Representative John Garamendi, Democrat of California, would repeal a line in the 1986 Water Resources Development Act that grants the president authority to use civil works money to respond to a national emergency.Administration officials struck a defiant note on Monday, saying the president needed the threat of a declaration to pressure Ms. Pelosi.“The Congress has failed to do its job — this Congress, last Congress and for quite a while to make sure that we have what we need at the southern border, which of course the centerpiece is a physical barrier, wall, steel slats,” Kellyanne Conway, the counselor to the president, told reporters.The House-Senate negotiating committee assigned to hammer out a border-security deal to keep the government funded is expected to work through the week and into the weekend. Lawmakers will begin working out some of the more tenuous aspects of the funding bill as early as Tuesday. Among the expected snags are a Democratic provision that would prohibit the use of funds to deny asylum applications from survivors of gang violence and domestic violence, whether to increase or decrease the number of detention beds used by Immigration and Customs Enforcement and what constitutes a border “barrier.”Democrats prefer a “smart wall” made up of sensors, drones and other technology but no physical structure. Republicans say some physical barrier is necessary, though not a concrete wall from the Pacific Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico.House Republicans on the committee spent Sunday and Monday on the border in Texas in McAllen and El Paso, accompanied by Representative Henry Cuellar, Democrat of Texas. Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama and the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, has also suggested bringing experts in to testify on what is needed in border security.But all of that work could be blown up by an emergency declaration, a move that would endear Mr. Trump to the Republican base while infuriating Democrats.“I think he’s going to do it,” said Jeff Roe, a veteran Republican consultant and longtime political adviser to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. “He’s responding to what too many Republicans ignore, which is the screaming and yelling from our base to do something. Let’s stop fighting ourselves and letting Democrats kick us in the face. We’ve been making these types of promises for ten to 15 years. Tax cuts and regulatory reform ain’t enough. We want the wall.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen ZraickA Florida House panel this week approved a bill that would require former felons to pay fees and fines before having their voting rights restored, prompting criticism from those who say it would undermine a new amendment that allows more than a million former felons to vote again.Supporters of the bill, approved by the Republican-controlled House Subcommittee on Criminal Justice on Tuesday, contend that it is meant merely to resolve questions over how to put Amendment 4, which voters approved in November, into practice.But voting rights advocates say the bill would unfairly punish those who are unable to pay and undermine the central objective of the amendment: ending permanent disenfranchisement.“This bill is just flying directly in the face of what two-thirds of Florida voters said very clearly,” said Sean Morales-Doyle, a lawyer at the Brennan Center for Justice in New York.Since the amendment took effect in January, it has caused some confusion. It did not apply to those convicted of murder or sexual offenses, and questions arose about which crimes should be counted in those categories.More contentious is the financial issue: Would felons be required to pay up for their sentence to be pronounced “completed?”The bill, which would also clarify the relevant offenses, passed the subcommittee by a vote of 10 to 5,  split along party lines, with the Democrats opposed.The financial question led a Democratic opponent of the bill, Representative Adam Hattersley, to label it “blatantly unconstitutional as a poll tax,” a reference to the fees used to keep African-Americans from voting in the South starting in the 1890s. (African-Americans are disproportionately affected by felony disenfranchisement, though the majority of Floridians with felony convictions are white.)Representative James Grant, a Republican and the subcommittee’s chairman, who sponsored the bill, disputed that characterization, saying it “diminishes the atrocity of what a poll tax actually was,” The Miami Herald reported. Mr. Grant did not immediately return a call for comment on Wednesday.Mr. Grant has said that the goal of the bill is to establish a uniform set of criteria to determine who is legally eligible to vote, and that the language reflects what lawyers said while explaining the ballot question language to the state’s Supreme Court.Politico reported Tuesday that the measure was expected to move easily through the House, and that the Senate was preparing its own bill containing “guidance” on how the amendment should be put into effect. Both chambers are controlled by Republicans. Gov. Ron DeSantis, also a Republican, opposed the amendment and has voiced support for legislation on its implementation.The Florida Rights Restoration Coalition, which led the fight for the amendment, said it opposed the bill because it would broaden the definition of “completion of sentence” beyond what was previously established by the state’s Clemency Board, among other concerns.“We are hopeful that improvements can be made to this bill that secure bipartisan support before it moves to the next committee,” Desmond Meade, president of the coalition, said in a statement.“Amendment 4 passed with broad support from people all over the state and from all walks of life,” he sad. “Any legislation proposed should neither limit the rights created by Amendment 4 nor infringe upon the will of Florida voters.”The matter is especially pernicious in Florida because of the state’s rigid rules on fines and fees, said Ashley Thomas, the Florida director of the nonprofit Fines and Fees Justice Center.Almost no waivers are granted to the indigent, she said. Fines and fees can rise quickly with late penalties, and can be sent to private collection agencies that add their own hefty surcharges. A 2010 report by the Brennan Center on the Florida court system’s reliance on fees noted that observers had coined a term for it: “cash register justice.”Julie Ebenstein, a lawyer with the Voting Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union, criticized the bill as “truly untethered to the text of the amendment.”“What this will do, in effect, is disenfranchise people who can’t afford to pay all of these obligations,” she said.Both the Brennan Center and the A.C.L.U. acted as consultants to the coalition in drafting Amendment 4, they said.Phil Telfeyan, executive director of the nonprofit Equal Justice Under Law, which focuses on economic discrimination, said his organization was considering filing a lawsuit challenging the Florida bill.People who have recently been released from prison often already face considerable financial challenges, having been out of the work force and having to rebuild their lives, he noted.“The Legislature is essentially punishing poverty,” Mr. Telfeyan said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Coral DavenportWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — Days after introducing her Green New Deal — a plan to combat climate change that has won the endorsement of several Democratic presidential candidates — Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez found the proposal enmeshed in confusion when her staff published a summary that included provisions not endorsed by the candidates.Over the weekend her staff backed away from the document, saying it was incomplete and had been published by accident, after Republicans pounced on the plan, citing a blog post of frequently asked questions. That post included language that called for economic security “for all who are unable or unwilling to work.”“An early draft of a FAQ that was clearly unfinished and that doesn’t represent the GND resolution got published to the website by mistake,” Saikat Chakrabarti, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s chief of staff, wrote on Twitter, referring to the plan by its acronym.The plan, written by Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, a freshman Democrat from New York, and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, was modeled on Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal and embraced by several presidential candidates, including Senators Kamala Harris, Democrat of California; Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York; and Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey. It was also welcomed by Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, who is seen as a possible presidential contender.The sweeping resolution, which calls for the United States to eliminate additional emissions of planet-warming carbon dioxide by 2030, was also signed by more than 60 House and Senate Democrats. The plan is a nonbinding resolution and outlines goals in broad strokes rather than mapping out concrete legislation.Spokeswomen and spokesmen for Senator Harris, Senator Gillibrand, Senator Booker and Senator Sanders did not return telephone calls or emails requesting comment on the error.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has promoted the plan as a blueprint for the eventual Democratic presidential nominee. But Republicans have turned the episode with the FAQ into a campaign moment, putting out a news release saying the document revealed the “new extreme left’s startling priorities.”“They completely screwed it up,” said John Feehery, a Republican and former senior House aide. “The fact that a young freshman would make careless mistakes is not that surprising. The fact that all these presidential candidates, who are trying to distinguish themselves from the president by saying they have gravitas and credibility, would so blindly follow her is a little shocking.”“Mistakes happen” when coordinating multiple groups and collaborators, Mr. Chakrabarti wrote on Twitter. “What’s in the resolution is the GND.”For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.Coral Davenport covers energy and environmental policy, with a focus on climate change, from the Washington bureau. She joined The Times in 2013 and previously worked at Congressional Quarterly, Politico and National Journal.  @CoralMDavenport • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON — The Trump administration defended itself on Thursday amid a barrage of criticism from angry taxpayers who are disappointed that they are receiving smaller tax refunds after the 2017 Republican tax cuts.The slimmer refunds, which are down about 8.7 percent from the same period a year ago, have been seized on by opponents of the tax cuts and Democratic lawmakers as proof that the Republican tax law did little to help average Americans.On Thursday, the administration rolled out fresh data to try to explain to taxpayers that their 2018 refunds were smaller because they received most of their tax cut in the form of bigger paychecks last year.“Most people are seeing the benefits of the tax cut in larger paychecks throughout the year, instead of tax refunds that are the result of people overpaying the government,” a Treasury Department spokeswoman said. “Smaller refunds mean that people are withholding appropriately based on their tax liability, which is positive news for taxpayers.”The Treasury Department said average refunds during the first two weeks of tax-filing season were down 8.7 percent from the same period a year ago to $1,949. About 27 million tax returns, or a fifth of the expected total, have been processed so far.The new law cut taxes for about 80 percent of filers, though the amounts vary widely. The biggest cuts went to those at the upper end of the income spectrum, with the top 1 percent of earners projected to get an average tax cut of $51,000, or 3.4 percent of after-tax income, according to the Tax Policy Center. Middle-income earners are projected to get an average tax cut of $900, or 1.6 percent of their after-tax income.After the tax law passed, the Treasury Department adjusted its withholding tables — which guide employers in determining how much to withhold in taxes from a worker’s paycheck — so that taxpayers would see the additional money immediately. But many workers may not have noticed since the tax cut was spread over a year’s worth of paychecks.As a result, many taxpayers are now uncertain about whether they will be getting a refund from the government or if they will owe taxes.A senior Treasury Department official said there appears to be confusion among some taxpayers who believe that a smaller refund means they have a higher tax bill. The official noted that financial advisers do not tend to encourage clients to seek higher refunds, since that essentially means taxpayers are overpaying the government throughout the year.But some taxpayers prefer to withhold too much as a method of forced savings, while others view that as giving the government a loan with zero interest.The tax law ushered in sweeping changes to the individual side of the tax code such as increasing the standard deduction and introducing a cap on the state and local tax break. Many of the changes were meant to simplify the system, but the transition has created confusion.Democrats have seized on the disappointment as a political opportunity, in some cases fanning the incorrect assertion that smaller tax refunds mean Americans did not actually get a tax cut.Senator Kamala Harris, a California Democrat and presidential candidate, wrote a post on Twitter about the smaller refunds this week and then suggested that President Trump increased taxes on the middle class. Most middle-class Americans are expected to see lower tax bills.Representative Joyce Beatty, Democrat of Ohio, suggested this week that the smaller refunds were painful for struggling Americans who count on that money. She said the declines were a broken promise by the Republicans who passed the tax cuts.“I think one of the things we were promised was that we were going to see it go up,” Ms. Beatty said, adding that smaller refunds will weaken consumer confidence. “People are upset about it.”The Treasury Department official said on Thursday that it was expected that average refunds would be smaller this year and that most of the people who are receiving them are still paying less tax overall.Advertisement
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jeffery C. Mays and William Neuman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The responses came out sheepishly, as though the debate question had delved into some illicit college-age misconduct.“Yes, unfortunately,” Nomiki Konst, a candidate for public advocate, admitted. “Not anymore.”Other Democratic candidates, like Ydanis Rodriguez, a city councilman from Upper Manhattan, Ronald Kim, an assemblyman from Queens, and Danny O’Donnell, an assemblyman from Manhattan, also gave grudging nods, but blamed their partners or spouses.Their transgression? Acknowledging that they have used Amazon.Of the candidates on the debate stage that day, only one — Eric A. Ulrich, a Republican city councilman from Queens — was an unabashed fan of Amazon, and the only one who fully supported the company’s deal to accept as much as $3 billion in tax incentives to build a corporate campus in Long Island City, Queens.And now that Amazon has pulled out of a deal, Mr. Ulrich may be uniquely positioned to benefit.Nearly all of the 17 candidates in the Feb. 26 special election have opposed the deal that would have given Amazon the tax breaks, citing the company’s anti-union background, and the demands that 25,000 workers would have placed on the city’s struggling housing and transit infrastructure.Mr. Kim even named his party line “No Amazon.”So for voters cheering Amazon’s departure, there is no shortage of like-minded public advocate candidates to choose from. But for those unhappy with the company’s exit — and the loss of the 25,000 jobs the company had promised to create — Mr. Ulrich may be a logical choice.“I was right and they were wrong,” Mr. Ulrich said in an interview. “The other candidates in this race were trying to outperform one another on who can be more anti-business and anti-Amazon. They chased Amazon out of town.”A Republican running for citywide office in New York would not normally stand much of a chance, if for no other reason than simple political math. For every one registered Republican voter, there are six registered Democrats. Multiply that by a factor of Trump — the president’s election in 2016 has only strengthened the Democrats’ hold on New York — and the current odds rise even further.But as one of two Republicans (Manny Alicandro, a lawyer, is the other) running, Mr. Ulrich may benefit from the race’s nonpartisan status: With 15 Democrats in the race, the traditional Democratic vote may be spread so diffusely that it could boost a Republican’s chances.“I think there’s a chance that regular people who would not normally be inclined to vote in a special election are a little bit angry about what happened and are therefore more likely to vote,” Chris Coffey, a Democratic political consultant, said of the failed Amazon deal. “And if they are, there’s only one person who was not against Amazon and that’s Eric Ulrich.”Amazon’s new campus drew strong disapproval from the public advocate field early on.Mr. Kim, for example, wrote an opposing op-ed with Zephyr Teachout, a law professor who has run unsuccessfully for attorney general and governor on progressive platforms, and introduced legislation that would direct corporate subsidies to instead help cancel student debt.Melissa Mark-Viverito, a former City Council speaker, denounced the plan, suggesting that New York should focus on improving its subway system. Jumaane Williams, a councilman from Brooklyn, was irate. “You give away $3 billion? $3 billion? To the richest man in America?” Mr. Williams told The New York Times in November.And during the recent debate, several other public advocate hopefuls doubled down on their position against Amazon. Ms. Konst said she was “actively fighting” the Amazon deal. Mr. O’Donnell said the deal was done “backwards.” Dawn Smalls called for the plan to be blocked until there was further public review. Michael A. Blake, an assemblyman who represents the Bronx, called for “dramatic changes” to the proposal.“They were reading from the same script,” Mr. Ulrich said when asked about the question in an interview. “It’s like they were passing a piece of paper and putting their own spin on it.”Mr. Ulrich has already distinguished himself from the Democrats in the race by taking a tougher stance on the policies of Mayor Bill de Blasio. He opposes the plan to close the Rikers Island jail complex and congestion pricing.Mr. Coffey said Mr. Ulrich’s path to becoming public advocate must travel through Republican voters and people “who don’t like” Mr. de Blasio. “If you have a small number of people who all go to Eric Ulrich in a race like this, that could be a game-changer,” he said.Amazon’s decision to abandon its planned campus has spawned a political nonprofit called Accountable New York that will urge voters out to vote on Feb. 26 by attacking Mr. de Blasio in planned television and digital advertisements. The group, created by a Republican political operative, E. O’Brien Murray, is not allowed to explicitly support any candidate.Although Mr. de Blasio joined with Mr. Cuomo to support the Amazon plan, the pair split on who to blame after the deal collapsed. Mr. Cuomo blamed Senate Democrats and other members of his own party who identify as progressive for opposing the plan. Mr. de Blasio mostly pointed the finger at Amazon, saying Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that the collapse of the deal is an example of an “abuse of corporate power.”“The mayor gets flak and he runs from the Amazon deal and he refuses to fight for it,” said Mr. Murray, who recently ran Keith Wofford’s unsuccessful Republican campaign for attorney general. “New York is being taken over by left-wing liberal socialists.”But candidates such as Mr. Kim and Ms. Konst believe they may benefit from the Amazon decision because they were against the deal in any form, while several other candidates wanted to simply modify it.“There’s a litmus test at this point,” Mr. Kim said. “It’s basically corporate politicians versus true progressives.”Ms. Konst said the stances adopted by public advocate candidates on the Amazon plan show the importance of the job as an investigator and foil to the mayor. “At the end of the day, Amazon is a bad company and we should not be welcoming bad companies with bad histories,” she said.Other public advocate candidates have been accused of shifting their position to become more critical of Amazon, perhaps sensing the shifting political winds among Democrats.Ms. Mark-Viverito, Mr. Williams, Mr. Blake and Mr. Rodriguez all signed a letter in October 2017 urging Amazon to locate their campus here. They have all since said that does not mean they support the deal that the city and state agreed to, but others have seized on the seeming incongruity.“By signing the letter, you are clearly supportive of the deal,” said Councilman Rafael Espinal of Brooklyn, who is running for public advocate and did not add his signature to the letter. “I don’t believe we should have even started the conversation” because of Amazon’s labor practices and how it hurts small businesses.Mr. Blake opposed the Amazon deal when it was announced, calling it “very troubling” in a statement. He also called for more transparency regarding the details of the plan, such as how it would benefit the community.After the deal’s collapse, Mr. Blake said he was disappointed. In an interview, Mr. Blake said his reaction should not be interpreted as him changing his stance on Amazon. “I said the deal needs to be changed,” he said. “That does not mean scrap the deal.”Mr. Blake suggested that his position on Amazon — sandwiched between Mr. Kim’s fervent opposition and Mr. Ulrich’s “blind acquiescence”— was the smartest and most consistent one, characterizing Amazon as a “defining issue” in the election.Mr. Ulrich agreed.“The voters will remember that either you were for Amazon and for jobs,” Mr. Ulrich said, “or you were against Amazon and against jobs.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael WinesWASHINGTON — In the years after Republicans swept state and congressional elections in 2010, legislatures in 25 states — all but a handful of them dominated by the party — enacted laws that made it harder to register and vote, from imposing ID requirements and curbing voter registration drives to rolling back early voting periods.In November, Democrats reclaimed some of the ground they lost eight years ago. And now the rules for casting a ballot are moving fast in the opposite direction.The signal example is in New York, where Democrats last month enacted a series of measures expanding access to the ballot box, just two months after taking full control of both the State House and Senate. But that state is far from the only one: Legislatures in New Jersey and Virginia are set to consider even more expansive packages. Delaware, New Hampshire, Minnesota and New Mexico are also set to take up voting rights measures.All those proposals, in legislatures under Democratic control or on the cusp of it, have plausible prospects of becoming law. But Democrats are pushing legislation to expand access to the ballot even in some states like South Carolina and Texas where Republicans control makes approval unlikely.And in the House of Representatives, they are pressing a sweeping overhaul of election and ethics laws — titled H.R. 1 to underscore its importance — that would, among many other things, end partisan gerrymanders, disclose anonymous donors to political causes and reinstate crucial parts of the 1965 Voting Rights Act that the Supreme Court invalidated in 2013.Republicans call the legislation an attack on states’ constitutional authority over elections and redistricting, and its campaign finance limits an assault on free speech. Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican and majority leader, already has said the bill would be dead on arrival in the Senate should it clear the House, as appears all but guaranteed.In an op-ed in The Washington Post last week, Mr. McConnell branded the legislation “the Democrat Politician Protection Act.” “From the First Amendment to your ballot box,” he wrote, “Democrats want to rewrite the rules to favor themselves and their friends.”That does not faze Democrats, who are betting that Republicans are on the wrong side of an issue that has finally gained traction with the public. Even if they lose to Republicans in Congress, Democrats say, they will win with voters.Should Republicans block the bill, “it becomes a marker by which we start measuring McConnell, the Senate and anybody else who stands in the way,” Representative John Sarbanes, a Maryland Democrat who is the House bill’s principal sponsor, said in an interview. “I think it’ll be increasingly difficult for him to resist this as a narrative.”Here are the different fronts that Democrats and even a few Republicans are pushing around the country.Floridians voted overwhelmingly in November for a constitutional amendment restoring voting rights that had been permanently stripped from as many as 1.4 million citizens with felony convictions. Now similar amendments have been proposed in Iowa and Kentucky, two states with the most draconian of such bans. The Iowa measure was proposed this month by the state’s Republican governor, Kim Reynolds, to a Republican-dominated legislature that seemed skeptical. The prospects in Kentucky’s Republican-controlled Legislature are also unclear.Minnesota, Connecticut and New Jersey Democrats are backing legislation to restore voting rights to those on parole or probation, and a bill in Arizona’s Legislature would lift a lifetime ban on voting by people convicted of two or more felonies. In New Mexico, where Democrats won full control of government in November for the first time since 2010, a state legislative committee has approved a proposal that would restore voting rights to anyone with a felony conviction, including prisoners. To date, only Maine and Vermont allow imprisoned felons to vote. A similar measure was filed in the New Jersey Legislature last year.As of November, 38 states allowed voters to cast ballots before Election Day, either by opening polling places early or by letting voters cast early absentee ballots for any reason. This month, New York became the 39th, and some form of early-voting legislation or constitutional amendment has been filed in all remaining states except Alabama and Rhode Island.Thirty-six states request some form of identification at the polls; the strictest measures were largely enacted by Republican legislatures after 2008. In two of them, Virginia and Texas, Democrats have introduced bills to repeal ID requirements; only the Virginia legislation is considered to have a chance of passage. An Indiana bill would expand that state’s strict ID law to include student identification cards.In 17 states and the District of Columbia, when a resident applies for a driver’s license, they are automatically registered to vote unless they ask to be excluded. Now at least 12 more states are taking up automatic-registration bills, many of which are likely to pass. Automatic registration is the rare voting rights innovation that frequently gets bipartisan support.In addition, at least nine state legislatures have bills that would allow voters to register on the same day that they vote. Two more, Texas and Mississippi, have legislation that would permit online registration. New York Democrats have approved legislation allowing 16- and 17-year-olds to preregister, an option that has been shown to increase participation in elections; lawmakers in four more states — Kentucky, Minnesota, New Jersey and Pennsylvania — have filed preregistration bills.Timothy Horrigan, a Durham representative in New Hampshire’s newly Democrat-controlled General Court, is sponsoring two bills to repeal recent Republican laws that made it more difficult for the area’s substantial college student population to register to vote.Mr. Horrigan said he was trying to recruit Republican support for some form of his legislation so that parties would not feel compelled to change election laws every time control of the legislature flips. But he pledged to stick to what he called his idealistic belief that politics was about winning supporters, not suppressing opponents.“If they’re worried about younger voters,” he said, “the solution is to get more younger voters on their side.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe U.S. should not copy China’s command-and-control playbook. Markets are still best at driving economic growth.By Veronique de RugyMs. de Rugy is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University.China’s post-Mao economic boom has occurred only to the extent that the country became capitalist. With “Made in China 2025,” Beijing’s 2015 anticapitalist plan for an industrial policy under which the state would pick “winners,” China has taken a step back from capitalism. (It recently dropped the “Made in China 2025” name, though the policy remains.) It won’t work, but China’s new industrial policy has worked one marvel — namely, scaring many American conservatives into believing that the main driver of economic growth isn’t the market but bureaucrats invested with power to control the allocation of natural and financial resources.Exhibit A is a report just out from the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, headed by Marco Rubio of Florida, on how to counter Beijing’s plan.The report echoes widespread fears about China’s plan to use top-down, nonmarket means such as tariffs, subsidies and capital restrictions to pursue global dominance in 10 industrial sectors like clean-energy cars, robotics and aerospace. The Rubio report asserts that such dominance “would be an unacceptable outcome for American workers.”Mr. Rubio’s somewhat surprising response is to in effect call for the United States to adopt its own industrial policy. It would include prioritizing manufacturing, protecting American companies in industries China wants to make headway in, restrictions on investments and capital flows, tax changes that encourage United States tech companies to spend more on research and development rather than on buybacks, and support for small businesses.China’s economic growth and sheer size are something to reckon with. Yet that doesn’t mean that authoritarian methods will enable China to attain economic dominance. I thought we learned this lesson after many American intellectuals, economists and politicians were proven spectacularly wrong  in predicting that the Soviet Union would become an economic rival.State planning will darken China’s economic prospects. Its resources are limited, so any expansive government investment in one, two or 10 sectors of its economy diverts resources from other sectors, threatening their future growth.Free-market proponents usually understand that, plagued by ignorance of all-important localized knowledge, government officials cannot outperform the market at picking winners. In practice it ends up picking losers or hindering the abilities of the winners to achieve their greatest potential. Central planning is antithetical to innovation, as is already visible in China.You can give Senator Rubio some points for consistency: Believing that top-down government planning works in China, he now believes it also works in America. Still, the same obstacles that limit the carrying out of many government policies in the United States — for example, the initial failure to open and maintain the HealthCare.gov website — will ensure that many of Beijing’s plans will fail.But even if this time really is different and China becomes “the global leader in innovation and manufacturing,” it still doesn’t follow that the United States government should respond with more of its own interventions. First, the law of comparative advantage still holds and so it would continue to be beneficial for China to import products that are produced more efficiently elsewhere. Second, the United States has instituted industrial policies in the past out of unwarranted fears of other countries’ industrial policies. The results have always imposed great costs on consumers and taxpayers and introduced significant economic distortions.Conservatives — who take pride in their respect for history — should learn about the failed United States industrial policies of the 1980s, which were responses to the Japanese government’s attempt to dominate key consumer electronics technologies. These efforts worked neither in Japan nor in the United States.The past has taught us that industrial policies fail often because they favor existing industries that are well connected politically at the expense of would-be entrepreneurs and start-ups offering more innovative solutions.And so contrary to the Rubio report, we should not prioritize manufacturing, to cite one example. Yes, manufacturing generates the majority of export revenues in rich countries. But despite popular opinion, trade’s benefits are not measured by the amounts that are exported. As economists since Adam Smith have pointed out, the ultimate goal of trade is to receive as many imports as possible.Also, Mr. Rubio’s report errs in concluding that because manufacturing wages are high, policymakers should work to increase employment in manufacturing. Wages in manufacturing are high because labor-saving innovations have increased workers’ productivity and, thus, their wages. But any workers artificially shifted into manufacturing would be redundant — and being redundant, their productivity and their wages would be low.This doesn’t mean there’s no role for government. In fact, the Clinton years should have taught politicians that the most effective industrial policy is to clear and protect spaces for innovation, as was done in 1997 with the administration’s Framework for Global Electronic Commerce. This posture of “permissionless innovation” for digital commerce kick-started the development of the American-led commercial internet.The same lesson applies to the competition for 5G technology (mentioned only twice in the Rubio report). China might end up leading in 5G patents and hardware production. This possibility raises privacy concerns — for instance, that China would influence the worldwide convergence on 5G standards to aid it to spy on users. Still, it’s difficult to believe that the Chinese could impose an anti-privacy standard with so many privacy watchdogs at the table. If there are national security issues, they should be addressed with national security means, not economic policy.We shouldn’t allow fear-mongering to hobble America’s free enterprise system. That system has proved remarkable at delivering what consumers care about, like speed, broadband services and applications. The researcher Brent Skorup lays out many simple ways the government could encourage 5G development in the United States. For starters, Mr. Skorup notes, the federal government could free up underused parts of the federal radio spectrum for new uses like 5G. Then, the federal government should work with states and cities to repeal statutes that prohibit homeowners from freely installing 5G equipment on their own property (which would expand broadband access). Local officials should see the 5G rollout not as a mere revenue generator but as a national campaign for a more innovative and dynamic economy.China’s economic future is bright, but only as long as it rejects large-scale industrial policy and instead recommits to competitive markets. We shouldn’t copy its recent command-and-control playbook. Rather, we should stick with the time-honored policies that have made the United States the titan to topple in the first place: free trade, competitive markets, reasonable regulations and the rule of law. Maybe China will decide to mimic more of our behaviors instead.Veronique de Rugy is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Tyler Pager[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]President Trump this week added another wrinkle to his long complicated relationship with his home state, when he encouraged residents of upstate New York who are unhappy with the region’s economy to “go to another state.”Mr. Trump’s comments, which came during an interview with reporters at the White House on Wednesday, were his latest critical remarks of the region, which has lost thousands of residents in recent years amid a sluggish economy.“If New York isn’t going to treat them better, I would recommend they go to another state where they can get a great job,” Mr. Trump said, according to The Buffalo News.Mr. Trump, who lived in New York City for most of his life, has routinely put down upstate New York despite finding widespread support there. In the 2016 election, he flipped 14 upstate counties that Barack Obama won in 2012. Yet during the campaign, he singled out the area as a “ghost town,” and in 2017 suggested to The Wall Street Journal that residents leave the region. “It’s O.K., don’t worry about your house,” he said.Despite Mr. Trump’s cynical advice, New York Republicans said they were not offended by the comments. Rather, they agreed with the president’s assessment.“He was stating the obvious, and the obvious is that New York has been in a death spiral for 50 years,” said Chris Collins, the congressman who represents the Buffalo area and was the first member of Congress to endorse Mr. Trump’s campaign. “All of the problems in New York State are driven by policy out of Albany that is now 100 percent controlled by downstate interests.”Carl Paladino, a political ally of Mr. Trump and a former Republican nominee for New York governor, echoed the president’s sentiments, saying he has also advised young people to leave the state.“Trump is hitting it right on the nose,” he said. “New York has become another super liberal state like California, and we have a governor who is so vain that it’s all about him, and the way people view him nationally, because he has his heart set on being drafted to be president of the United States. He has little regard for the problems of upstate New York.”Mr. Paladino added: “If you’re from upstate New York, you don’t have any future. It’s just an economic nightmare.”But for Craig Yunker, a farmer in western New York, President Trump’s comments, while they may be realistic, are not helpful.Mr. Yunker said it has become increasingly difficult to operate a business in New York, but “it’s very difficult to leave New York.”“That’s not a solution,” said Mr. Yunker, a Republican who does not support Mr. Trump. “If there are issues that can be addressed, let’s address them.”Mr. Trump’s comments came the same week New York reported a $2.3 billion budget gap, which Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo blamed on Mr. Trump, whose 2017 tax bill put a cap on the so-called SALT deduction for state and local property taxes. Mr. Cuomo said this has created “an economic civil war” between blue and red states.“The economic incentive to move out of New York is higher than it has ever been,” Mr. Cuomo said Thursday at a speech in Manhattan. “SALT put that problem on steroids. Our tax collections are down about 50 percent.”But in his Wednesday interview, Mr. Trump seemingly did not understand the full extent of his tax bill, saying it would not hurt upstate New York because it only “affects wealthy people.”When reporters clarified its effects, Mr. Trump said he was “open to thinking about” revisiting the issue.“I love those people,” he said about upstate residents. “Those people are my voters. They’ve been treated very badly.”Mr. Trump, who has had a fraught relationship with New York’s political leaders, placed the blame for the residents’ struggles squarely on the state government, which he said has been “poorly run.”Though it acknowledged the population decline in upstate New York, Cuomo’s administration dismissed the president’s critiques as untruthful and devoid of any solutions to the budget shortfall.“We provide for New Yorkers, and I’d put that record against any Trump company any day of the week,” Richard Azzopardi, a senior adviser to Mr. Cuomo, said.Mr. Azzopardi also pointed to the dropping unemployment rate in upstate New York. Excluding New York City and Long Island, the unemployment rate was 3.8 percent as of December 2018, down from 8 percent in December 2010, he said.Follow Tyler Pager on Twitter: @tylerpager.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Vivian Wang[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]When New York expanded abortion rights last week for the first time in 49 years, Democrats across the state were exultant. Now, that jubilation has been met with an equal and opposite reaction.Anti-abortion advocates, from grass-roots activists all the way to the White House, are taking aim at New York, Virginia and other states in a bid to halt similar legislative efforts by emboldened Democratic lawmakers and to mobilize supporters ahead of the 2020 presidential race.By Thursday, both President Trump and Vice President Mike Pence had leaned into the debate, homing in on provisions that would loosen some restrictions on late-term abortions. Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that the Democrats had become the “party of late-term abortion,” and Mr. Pence viewed the effort in New York and Virginia as a “call to action for all Americans.”“Until we heard those cheers coming from Albany,” Mr. Pence wrote in an opinion piece in National Review, “we thought states were moving beyond such barbaric practices.”Republican opposition has focused particularly on a provision in the New York and Virginia proposals to allow abortion in the final trimester to protect the health of the mother.New York’s new law, passed last week, permits abortion after the 24th week of a pregnancy when there is “an absence of fetal viability, or the abortion is necessary to protect the patient’s life or health.” A bill introduced in Virginia by a Democratic state lawmaker would also have reduced restrictions on late-term abortions to protect the mother’s health, and would have decreased the number of physicians whose opinions were required to approve an abortion, to one from three. The Virginia bill was set aside in committee.Late-term abortions are rare: About 1.3 percent of abortions performed in the United States in 2015 took place in or after the 21st week, according to the Centers for Disease Control.Mr. Pence offered his argument as a litmus test of morality; he described the new abortion legislation as a “shameless embrace of a culture of death.” But among conservatives, the White House’s outrage was also greeted as a clear and shrewd political strategy — to rally Republicans with an eye toward the 2020 presidential election, and to close ranks around Mr. Trump, embattled though he may be, as their unequivocal leader.“It’s going to come into play, quite frankly, in the elections next year. We’re not going to let it go away,” Carol Tobias, the president of the National Right to Life Committee, the country’s largest anti-abortion group, said of New York’s law and Virginia’s defeated proposal.“You’re going to see articles written and speeches, and our affiliates around the country are going to take it up,” Ms. Tobias added. She singled out a video clip of the Virginia lawmaker, Kathy Tran, earlier this week acknowledging that her bill would allow, in certain circumstances, for a woman to request an abortion when she was about to give birth.Ms. Tran later clarified that she “misspoke” and that the bill would not allow the prevention of a live birth.Nonetheless, the clip of her initial comments, already viral, was further amplified when Virginia’s Democratic governor, Ralph Northam, was asked during a radio interview on Wednesday about Ms. Tran’s bill. Mr. Northam, a pediatric neurologist, said late-term abortions would be permissible in cases of severe deformities or nonviable fetuses, and described a situation in which such an infant would be delivered, and then a “discussion would ensue between the physicians and the mother.”Conservatives seized upon the answer as proof that Mr. Northam approved of killing an infant even after it was delivered, even as Mr. Northam’s office said the reply was taken out of context and called the idea that he would support such a proposal “disgusting.”“That’s going to be played in legislative bodies around the country or at least used to lobby,” Ms. Tobias, of the National Right to Life Committee, said.It already has: Virginia’s Republican Party sent a fund-raising email with the clip of the Virginia lawmaker; the National Republican Congressional Committee has also attacked several newly elected House Democrats from Virginia, trying to link them to the debate in the statehouse. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida likened the Democratic proposals to legalizing infanticide, and the former United Nations ambassador, Nikki Haley, said the idea made her sick.Abortion, along with the composition of the nation’s top courts, has proved one of the most unifying issues for the right. Mr. Trump’s appointment of two conservative justices to the Supreme Court has won him the allegiance of conservatives who otherwise would have been skeptical.“I think it’s a combination, for both Trump and Pence, of deep personal convictions on the issue combined with what they correctly perceive as very good politics,” said Ralph Reed, the head of the Faith and Freedom Coalition and a prominent conservative commentator. (Mr. Trump has not always opposed a woman’s right to an abortion. “I’m very pro-choice,” Mr. Trump said in 1999. “I hate the concept of abortion. I hate it. I hate everything it stands for. I cringe when I listen to people debating the subject. But you still — I just believe in choice.”)“It is a way for him to remind the voters that 2020 is not going to be a referendum on the personality of the candidates,” Mr. Reed added of the president. “It’s going to be a referendum on two very distinct agendas.”The debate is similar to the impassioned battles that took place in the mid-1990s, when conservatives, led by the National Right to Life movement, coined the term “partial birth abortions” to describe a rare procedure known as “dilation and evacuation,” which can be deployed in later-term abortions under dire circumstances, like when a mother’s life is at stake.Still, the backlash to the procedure was so strong that Democrats in the House joined Republicans in voting for a federal ban on such abortions in 1995 and again in 1997. President Bill Clinton vetoed the bill both times. But even Mr. Clinton walked a measured line in recognition of the fierce opposition: Abortion, he declared, should be “safe, legal and rare.”Nearly two decades later, Mr. Trump conjured the same imagery in his final debate with Hillary Clinton in 2016. Mr. Trump said Ms. Clinton’s stance on abortion would allow doctors to “rip the baby out of the womb of the mother just prior to the birth.”It was at that moment that Mr. Trump “closed the deal” with evangelical and other voters opposed to abortion, said Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, a conservative Christian activist group.Mr. Reed said Mr. Trump should reprise that strategy next year.“The truth is that, when pressed, every Democratic nominee for president in 2020 will defend abortion through the ninth month of pregnancy,” he said.“They don’t like to talk about it, but if you can make that the ground that they have to stand on,” Mr. Reed continued, “then you allow us to say you’re the party of late-term abortions.”Abortion rights advocates said they would meet that strategy with renewed efforts of their own, condemning the rhetoric as unscientific and hysterical.“The other side has always been galvanized,” said Tarina Keene, the head of Naral Pro-Choice Virginia. “And I would say that with the new makeup of the Supreme Court, that has galvanized the pro-choice side of this argument to actually double down.”Similar bills to expand abortion rights in New Mexico and Rhode Island seem unlikely to be derailed, given the dominance of Democrats in both states’ legislatures and governor’s mansions. Likewise, any effort to reverse the New York law also seemed assured to fail.Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the newly installed Democratic leader of the New York State Senate, had campaigned on a pledge to push her chamber — traditionally led by Republicans — to expand and protect abortion rights in the state.“The party of Trump is relying on lies and fear to try to strip women’s rights,” she said on Thursday. “New York will not be intimidated and we will continue to fight for women’s health and be a progressive beacon to the rest of the nation.”An earlier version of this article misstated the type of doctor Gov. Ralph Northam is. He is a pediatric neurologist, not a pediatric surgeon.Follow Vivian Wang on Twitter: @vwang3 Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON — A last-ditch gambit to spare Senate Republicans a hostile showdown with President Trump over the Constitution’s separation of powers was torpedoed on Wednesday by the president himself, increasing the likelihood that the Senate will vote on Thursday to overturn the president’s emergency declaration and force the first veto of his term.Hoping to avoid a confrontation with Mr. Trump over his declaration of an emergency to build his coveted border wall, Republicans tried to rally behind legislation to limit the power of presidents to declare emergencies in the future while allowing the current president’s end-run around Congress.But Speaker Nancy Pelosi quickly derided that idea and then Mr. Trump threw cold water on it himself, phoning the Republican author of the new legislation, Senator Mike Lee of Utah, during a Senate luncheon to inform him it was no deal.As a result, Mr. Lee said he would now vote to end the emergency declaration, the fifth Republican “yes” vote — and other Republicans, with no alternative route, are likely to follow.“Unfortunately, it appears the bill does not have an immediate path forward, so I will be voting to terminate the latest emergency declaration,” said Mr. Lee, who had earlier said he did not think the president’s actions were unconstitutional.The outcome left Republicans with a difficult choice. They can back the president in what is widely seen as a surrender of Congress’s core power of controlling federal spending. Or they can join Democrats and break with a president who is popular within the party on his maneuver to build a wall that is also popular with Republicans.To Mr. Trump, the decision is not all that tough.“I think anybody going against border security, drug trafficking, human trafficking, that is a bad vote,” the president told reporters at the White House as he delivered another warning shot to Republicans who would dare to buck him. He also defended the constitutionality of his declaration despite the bipartisan refusal of Congress to fund the wall.“I think it is bad for a Republican senator — I also think it is bad for a Democrat senator — to vote against border security and to vote against the wall,” he said. “I think to vote that way is a very bad thing long into the future.”But Republicans are struggling with the vote. Conservatives such as Mr. Lee and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky — another Republican who says he will vote for the resolution of disapproval — believe that members of Congress have ceded far too much power to the executive branch over the years in an effort to avoid taking politically tough stances themselves. Republicans regularly accused President Barack Obama of executive overreach on issues such as immigration, health care and the environment and now risk being accused of hypocrisy if they stand by while Mr. Trump ignores Congress to do as he wishes.Many Republicans believe that allowing Mr. Trump to redirect money at his own discretion after Congress explicitly forbade it would amount to a final acquiescence to the executive branch that could set a precedent for future Democratic presidents. But they are also in no rush to irritate a president who has shown vast capacity to stir Republican voters or to rile the activist groups that back him.On Wednesday, The Hill newspaper reported that conservative groups such as the Club for Growth were considering backing a primary challenge next year to Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, because of his opposition to Mr. Trump on the emergency declaration and other issues.Looking for a way to not anger Mr. Trump and salvage some congressional pride, Mr. Lee introduced his proposal that would require Congress to approve any emergency declaration or it would terminate after 30 days at most. That would mean approval by Congress would be required rather than the current arrangement in which Congress is given the option of disapproving an emergency declaration and the president can veto it. Under the current legislative arrangement, Congress can block an emergency declaration only if opponents can muster the two-thirds vote to override a veto.“If we don’t want our president acting like a king, we need to start taking back the legislative powers that allow him to do so,” Mr. Lee said.The Lee bill, however, would have no impact on the president’s current emergency declaration. Republicans saw it as a way to both back Mr. Trump and close the door to future use of the declarations by presidents — notably Democratic presidents — to circumvent Congress.But the reception was not good. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, mocked the proposal as “bunk.”“What a fig leaf,” he exclaimed.Ms. Pelosi effectively killed it by declaring that the House would not even consider the plan. “Republican senators are proposing new legislation to allow the president to violate the Constitution just this once in order to give themselves cover,” she wrote in a statement on Wednesday morning. “The House will not take up this legislation to give President Trump a pass.”Even before he spoke to reporters, Mr. Trump took issue on Twitter with Republican senators and their reticence to back him.“Republican Senators are overthinking tomorrow’s vote on National Emergency,” the president said. “It is very simply Border Security/No Crime — Should not be thought of any other way. We have a MAJOR NATIONAL EMERGENCY at our Border and the People of our Country know it very well!”But the president’s stand only increased the likelihood that the Democratic resolution to block his emergency would pass — less than 24 hours after the Senate rebuked him on a separate issue by voting to end military assistance for Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen.While it would be a loss for Mr. Trump, it may not be as bad as it could have been.When the president first announced his determination to move forward with the emergency after signing a spending bill to end the government shutdown in February, there was significant dissent among Republican senators and the White House faced a wider revolt.In the interim, through a concerted personal campaign, Mr. Trump has had some success in limiting defections. Proponents of overturning the declaration are likely to be far short of the 67 Senate votes needed to override the promised veto.Still, congressional passage of a resolution of disapproval could help the plaintiffs in a number of lawsuits who are suing to block the declaration as a flagrant violation of the Constitution.Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byPeople say that the 1998 impeachment of Bill Clinton hurt Republicans. Did it really?By Philippe ReinesMr. Reines is a former senior adviser to Hillary Clinton.The impeachment of Bill Clinton backfired on Republicans.It’s a sentiment repeated daily without question on cable news, in Congress and probably inside the White House.But exactly how did impeachment backfire? With two decades of hindsight, it’s not clear the Republicans faced any lasting consequences — a perspective that should inform any Democrat considering whether to undertake the same effort against President Trump.The case for why impeachment hurt the Republicans is straightforward. Most obviously, it didn’t work: President Clinton was not convicted and removed from office. In fact, in early 1999, at the height of the impeachment process, he was more popular than at any other time of his presidency. Furthermore, in the fall of 1998, at the first opportunity for voters to express their feelings at the ballot box after the House voted to begin an impeachment inquiry, the Democrats picked up five seats in the House of Representatives, an embarrassment that drove Newt Gingrich from the speaker’s office. But consider what followed. First, the Republicans went on to take or hold the White House in three of the next five presidential elections — including the 2016 race between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton. And while Democrats did gain a handful of House seats in midterm elections in 1998, the Republicans maintained control for eight more years, until disapproval of the Iraq war finally tipped Congress to the Democrats in 2006. On the Senate side in 1998, the Republicans maintained their 55-45 majority. With the exception of a 17-month window in 2002 and 2003, Republicans controlled the Senate until 2006. In short, the Republican wave of 1994 endured for nearly a decade after the failed impeachment.It’s true that Mr. Clinton was not removed from office, but Republicans used the fact of his impeachment as a cudgel first against his vice president, Al Gore, and later against his wife. While its impact can’t be quantified, it sure didn’t help either in their election bids.Finally, and most important, the very myth that the 1998 impeachment hurt Republicans protects them today, when pressure to move against Mr. Trump is met with concerns about the political fallout. Clearly, we need to reconsider that myth.Basically, a high crime committed by a Republican won’t be prosecuted because a Democrat was persecuted over a misdemeanor.There are many reasons for Democrats to contemplate impeachment today that go beyond politics. Substantial evidence has already emerged showing that the president has abused his office to the detriment of the American public. That evidence deserves a thorough and transparent airing in Congress, arguably the only venue available for trying a sitting president.Still, as pundits never tire of saying, impeachment is a political process, not a legal one — and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and Senator Chuck Schumer are right to wonder whether it makes sense to seek impeachment, especially given the unlikelihood of enough Republicans breaking ranks in the Senate. On Monday, Ms. Pelosi said that, for now, Mr. Trump was “not worth” the cost of impeachment to the country.But impeachment is worth it, politically, and not just because of what history shows us. If anything, Democrats are in an even better position than Republicans were in 1998 to benefit, or at worst not suffer, politically.For one thing, 22 Republican senators are up for re-election in 2020, against just 12 Democrats. Especially if the public support for impeachment continues to grow, a Republican vote to acquit the president could tip at least a few vulnerable Republican seats.Also, one reason people think the Republicans suffered for 1998 is that everyone knew, then and later, that it was a crassly political move — Mr. Clinton’s lapses, however you judge them, were personal, not the sort of “high crimes and misdemeanors” that impeachment is intended to address. Most voters today, whether they support Mr. Trump or not, will probably see a potential impeachment against him differently. Especially as the evidence mounts, reasonable people will more and more conclude that the Democrats are doing their civic duty by pursuing impeachment (and those who disagree probably wouldn’t vote Democratic anyway).There is also a mounting political cost to not impeaching Mr. Trump. He will hail it as exoneration and he will go into the 2020 campaign under the banner “I Told You So,” declaring that for all their talk of removing him from office, Democrats had merely been playing politics for three years.All this assumes that impeachment won’t happen. But the political case is so strong, and the evidence against Mr. Trump so persuasive, that however unlikely, it is not impossible that 20 Republican senators join the Democrats. But perhaps the most persuasive political case for impeachment is the long view. Set aside what it would mean for the 2020 elections. Mr. Trump is a pernicious, divisive figure who is poisoning our politics, and hopes to do so for years to come. Should he lose in 2020, he has already laid the groundwork for an all-out assault against the media, the political establishment and the Democratic Party itself.Politically, we — the country, not just the Democratic Party — cannot accept that risk. Impeachment might be the only remedy we have.Philippe Reines was a senior adviser and spokesman for Hillary Clinton from 2002 to 2017.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily Cochrane and Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — Senate Republicans introduced a measure Tuesday night that would curtail future presidential emergency declarations in a last-ditch effort to save President Trump’s current border wall emergency from an embarrassing rejection by senators charging constitutional overreach.Four Republican senators have publicly said they will support a House-passed resolution of disapproval when it comes up for final passage in the Senate on Thursday. That would be just enough to ensure passage of a measure overturning the national emergency that the president declared to secure border wall funding over Congress’s objection.But that near certainty appeared to shift on Tuesday as Vice President Mike Pence pressed Senate Republicans at a closed-door meeting before their weekly policy lunch. A measure sponsored by Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, and supported by more than a dozen Republican senators, would curtail the president’s powers under the National Emergencies Act of 1976, requiring a congressional vote of approval for any new emergency declaration after 30 days.And one of the Republicans who said he favored the resolution of disapproval, Senator Thom Tillis of North Carolina, appeared to be wavering, according to multiple people at the policy lunch. Without him — and barring any other defections — the resolution would fail to reach the president’s desk.“If you would have asked me before this lunch then I would have said, in the Senate, the president is going to lose,” said Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, who opposes the resolution. “But I’m not so sure now. A lot of people are trying to think of a way to express their support for the president, but at the same time express their concern” about ceding too much power to the White House.While Mr. Lee’s bill would not retroactively apply to Mr. Trump’s border emergency declaration, it would give Senate Republicans cover — and offer their only chance of defeating the House resolution by easing concerns that a future Democratic president could take advantage of the precedent set by Mr. Trump.Speaker Nancy Pelosi sought Wednesday to deny senators that cover, saying flatly she would never put Mr. Lee’s legislation on the House floor for a vote.“Republican senators are proposing new legislation to allow the president to violate the Constitution just this once in order to give themselves cover,” she said in a statement. “The House will not take up this legislation to give President Trump a pass.”Republicans were ready to persist. Mr. Lee, who declined to say how he would vote on the resolution, recast the issue as the Senate reasserting its constitutional prerogatives — in the future.“Over the last 80 years, Congress has voluntarily relinquished a whole lot of legislative power, handed over to the executive branch,” said Mr. Lee, speaking to reporters about his bill. “We’ve deviated so far from the structure put in place by the Constitution.”Passing the resolution to overturn the border emergency would represent a rare assertion of legislative prerogative by Senate Republicans, who have been loath to buck Mr. Trump over the last two years. The measure would almost certainly be vetoed, the first of Mr. Trump’s presidency, but it could also bolster several lawsuits contesting the president’s emergency declaration as a flagrant violation of the Constitution, which grants Congress the power to decide how to spend federal tax dollars.Senate Democrats responded incredulously to the Republican maneuver.“I think Leader McConnell all too often has abandoned what is good for the comity in the Senate and the institution of the Senate to go along with President Trump,” Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, said in an interview on Tuesday.He said Democrats would oppose any attempt to curtail future abuses of executive power without addressing Mr. Trump’s actions.The resolution of disapproval has squeezed Mr. Tillis between conservatives in his home state angered by his stand and the swing voters he needs for his re-election in 2020.Mr. Trump has added his own pressure. In conversations with staff members and lawmakers, the president has made an emotional case for opposing the resolution, telling them that a vote in favor would be seen by their constituents as “a vote against border security” and warning that such a move would be regarded as disloyalty, according to three Republicans with direct knowledge of his actions, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.“This is not a free vote. The president is paying attention,” Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, told the conference during their weekly lunch at the Capitol, according to a person in attendance.Mr. Lee then delivered an upbeat assessment of a meeting with Mr. Pence, telling his colleagues that the vice president agreed, in principle, to the idea of limiting the scope of an emergency declaration to 30 days without congressional approval — but insisted that it be measured in “legislative” days rather than calendar days, which could extend a president’s latitude for action, the person added.Mr. Tillis, to the surprise of some in the room, embraced the idea — although he did not go so far as to say he would reverse his public support for the resolution. He is a co-sponsor of Mr. Lee’s bill.It is unclear if Mr. Pence’s concession will be enough. A handful of other Republicans have privately signaled they may also buck the West Wing to ensure a clear statement from Congress that a president cannot use an emergency declaration to secure funds for a project that was explicitly rejected by the branch of government constitutionally granted control of federal spending.“We’ve got a short window for something to come together,” Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican in the Senate, told reporters on Tuesday.Other senators, he said, would likely “feel comfortable in the end voting against the resolution as long as they had something they could point to that actually is modernizing the underlying statute.”Both Senators Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, have publicly declared their intent to disapprove of Mr. Trump’s declaration and gave no indication on Tuesday that they had changed their minds.Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, is also a “yes” vote, and told reporters on Tuesday that while it was unlikely that he would change his mind on supporting the resolution, he would support reforming the National Emergencies Act.The compromise proposed by Mr. Lee also seemed to soothe other Republican senators who have criticized the president’s actions but have been unwilling to publicly support the motion of disapproval.Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, has not publicly said how he will vote on the resolution, but he thought the Lee bill would help keep defections to a minimum. Mr. Trump had been a sharp critic of presidents exceeding their authority when the president was Barack Obama.“The president had problems, as a candidate, with the Obama overreach,” Mr. Blunt said. “He’s been on the record for some time on this topic, and I think this would give him a chance to get back to where he was three years ago.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa Friedman and Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, will force Democrats on Tuesday to take a stand on the Green New Deal and its ambitious goal of conquering climate change — after a long windup designed to drive a wedge between cautious Democratic senators and the liberal activists pushing for climate action.The resolution, which pairs quick action to throttle carbon emissions and liberal job-creation programs, will fail at the hands of the Republican majority. Many, if not most, Democrats plan to vote present, arguing that the resolution up for a vote is not anything like a fully formed piece of legislation and has not even received a hearing. Stunt votes in the past by both parties have had little political impact.But Republicans say putting the Democrats on record is significant, and it is just the beginning: They intend to keep the Green New Deal in the spotlight as long as possible to paint Democrats as socialists, out of touch with American values.“It’s the gift that keeps on giving,” said Senator James M. Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican who once brought a snowball to the Senate floor in an effort to disprove climate change.Over the past several weeks a parade of Republicans have accused supporters of the Green New Deal of plotting to ban cars and cows, outlaw air travel, and criminalize milkshakes, all while spending trillions of dollars on a dubious effort to eliminate coal, oil and gas and guarantee jobs.Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, called the proposal a “utopian manifesto.” Senator John Thune of South Dakota called it a “socialist fantasy.” Representative Rob Bishop of Utah munched on a hamburger at a news conference where he mused between bites that if the Green New Deal becomes law, “I could no longer eat this type of thing,” since cattle would be eradicated.Using a price tag calculated by the conservative American Action Forum — $93 trillion over 10 years — fact sheets circulated among Republicans offer a litany of fanciful ways to use Green New Deal funds, such as filling Lake Michigan with Coca-Cola.Democrats have accused Mr. McConnell of trying to sabotage any action on climate change and pushed Republicans to come up with a plan of their own for tackling it.Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, who introduced the House version of the Green New Deal, blasted Republicans on Twitter for holding a “bluff vote” and called it a “disgrace.”Earlier this month, a handful of Democratic senators — including Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader — interrupted speeches attacking the Green New Deal with questions about their Republican colleagues’ belief in climate change.“Do you believe climate change is real?” Mr. Schumer repeatedly asked.Democrats acknowledge that Republicans have been aided by the Green New Deal’s effort to link the reduction of planet-warming pollution to controversial economic goals like employment guarantees and single-payer health care. And the resolution’s botched rollout — when a staff member issued and then quickly retracted a fact sheet that joked about how long it will take to “fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes” — also gave opponents ready-made talking points.But many question the political impact of a stunt vote. Daniel Lashof, who directs the United States operations of the World Resources Institute, a global environmental think tank, accused Republicans of a “bad-faith effort to label whatever the Democrats do as socialism.” He predicted it wouldn’t resonate beyond those already antagonistic to climate change.Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, an outspoken advocate for addressing climate change, dismissed Republican attacks on the Green New Deal as “a lot of made up calumnies.”Several Democrats said the caucus still is not unified on how to approach the vote on the Green New Deal, though most are expected to vote “present.”But Republicans say they are on to something.“At a political level, it’s clearly dividing the Democrats,” said J. Scott Jennings, a former campaign adviser to Mr. McConnell. “There are clearly Democrats who understand what a disaster this was to be rolled out the way it was, but they feel trapped by the base of their party that is demanding this sort of extremely out-of-the-mainstream stuff.”But climate change is not “extremely out of the mainstream.” Concern about climate change in the United States is the highest it has ever been. On the heels of a deadly wildfire season supercharged by climate change and a report by 13 federal agencies finding global warming poses a serious threat to the economy, Americans are more convinced than ever that emissions from tailpipes and smokestacks are having an impact on the planet.In many ways the Green New Deal, with its call to power the country entirely on wind, solar and other zero-carbon energy and ensuring the United States eliminates as much carbon pollution as it creates by about 2030, has injected a new enthusiasm for tackling the problem: Every Democratic presidential candidate has been pressed on his or her support of the plan, and it has helped propel climate change into a top-tier issue for 2020.But it also has created awkward moments for moderate Democrats. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, for example, was excoriated and mocked on “Saturday Night Live” after she told a group of visiting school children that she opposed the Green New Deal because it wasn’t practical and “there’s no way to pay for it.” Ms. Feinstein has a 90 percent lifetime rating from the League of Conservation Voters, which rates lawmakers on their environmental votes and policies, and has sponsored major climate change legislation for more than 20 years.Joseph Pinion, a Republican political consultant who advocates a carbon tax, criticized Green New Deal supporters for making it a purity test of support for to address climate change. He called the resolution “possibly the largest setback in terms of getting Republicans to the table certainly in my lifetime.”By packaging efforts to curb emissions with unrelated issues like promises of a federal job guarantee, vacation pay for all Americans and a single-payer health care system, he said the Green New Deal feeds the belief among conservatives that Democrats are using climate change as a cover to enact a broadly liberal economic agenda.“The problem with the Green New Deal is that it unifies Republicans,” Mr. Pinion said. “From your never-Trumpers to your Trump skeptics to your Trumportunists, all of these individuals are united in the idea that the policies of a Green New Deal would be disastrous for America.”But polling on the plan is strong, at least among Democrats. Data commissioned by environmental groups in early primary states found 74 percent of likely primary voters reacted favorably when presented the Green New Deal. A new Iowa poll this week reinforced that, finding 91 percent of Iowa Democrats want a candidate who supports the Green New Deal.“If anything the Green New Deal has brought energy to an issue that had gone stale,” Mr. Whitehouse said, “and as long as we can stay united and keep making progress, it will work out really well for us.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn WashingtonBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON — Many Senate Republicans are as perplexed as they are perturbed about President Trump’s sustained attack on their colleague, John McCain. But few want to shout about it.Baffled as they may be over why Mr. Trump continues to vilify a man who devoted his life to his nation and suffered as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, that doesn’t mean that all of his former colleagues want to get caught in a feud between a president popular with Republican voters and a memory. Most have not publicly commented on Mr. Trump’s continuing character and policy assault on a man whom many served with for years.Attempts to reach multiple senior senators for their views and reactions were unsuccessful. They are scattered around the world and the United States on their weeklong break, but senators can find a way to make themselves heard if they believe the subject is important enough.There were some exceptions.“I just don’t understand why the president keeps returning to his dislike of John McCain and criticizing him, particularly now that he is no longer alive,” Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine and a longtime friend and ally of Mr. McCain, said in an interview. “The president should refrain from any further criticism of John McCain, an American hero who served his country well.”A handful of other Republicans have spoken out, emphasizing their high regard and their deep respect for Mr. McCain, who died last year. Senator Joni Ernst, a Republican and veteran from Iowa, and Senator Johnny Isakson, a normally reserved Republican of Georgia, are among a few who have directly criticized the president’s actions. Mr. Isakson called the comments “deplorable,” and urged him to stop.Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, who had his own giant clashes with Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, over campaign finance laws, praised his former colleague on Twitter as “a rare patriot and genuine American hero in the Senate.” But he did not directly address Mr. Trump’s comments.Others Republicans, such as Senator Mitt Romney of Utah, have taken a similar approach in praising Mr. McCain — but avoiding Mr. Trump. Senator Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican who attended Wednesday’s rally in Lima, Ohio, where the president went on an extended tirade against Mr. McCain, expressed some frustration at being pressed on the subject, according to a report in The Columbus Dispatch.“John McCain was a war hero. I’ve told you that before,” he said. “That’s how I feel.” Representative Bob Latta, Republican of Ohio, who was there as well, told the paper he did not want to discuss the remarks.The awkward silence was not lost on Democrats.“What has happened to my colleagues in the Republican Party?” asked Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware. “I am genuinely struggling to grasp what Trump could possibly think was the upside of continuing to trash a genuine American hero regardless of what he thought of his last year’s voting record.”“I am grateful for a few friends like Senator Isakson, who stood forward and said clearly what everyone is thinking but not enough senators are saying,” Mr. Coons said.Mr. Coons was correct about what everyone is thinking on Capitol Hill. Despite the lack of a robust Republican defense on behalf of Mr. McCain, party strategists and top congressional officials said privately that they and many senators believe the president’s persistent onslaught against the senator was, by various accounts, ugly, bizarre, disgusting, disturbing, counterproductive and just plain weird.Not only did it call attention to Mr. Trump’s own failure to serve in Vietnam despite his being of prime draft age at the time, it rankled veterans who tend to rally around their own and detracted from the economic and national security message Mr. Trump was trying to present.Former Senator Bob Kerrey, a Democrat who lost a leg in Vietnam, appeared on CNN to challenge Mr. Trump to show Americans the bone spurs in his foot that kept him out of the war. (The New York Times last year located the daughters of a podiatrist from Queens, Dr. Larry Braunstein, who said their father, who died in 2007, often told the story of coming to the aid of a young Mr. Trump during the Vietnam War as a favor to Fred C. Trump, his landlord and the president’s father.)Mr. Trump’s attacks continued on Thursday. When Maria Bartiromo, a Fox Business Network anchor, asked about Mr. McCain in an interview, the president insisted the news media had brought up the issue first — when in fact he had begun his tirade in Ohio unbidden and on television.“When I went out yesterday to the scrum, they asked me the question,” he said falsely, before again hitting the senator for voting against a repeal of the Affordable Care Act. “When they ask me the question, I answer the question. But you people bring it up, I don’t bring it up. I’m not a fan. He was horrible — what he did with repeal and replace. What he did to the Republican Party and to the nation, and to sick people that could have had great health care, was not good. So I’m not a fan of John McCain and that’s fine.”There are multiple potential reasons Republican senators were steering clear of the dispute between the president and a man interred with military honors at the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md. First, it is a fact that Mr. McCain had a temper and could be difficult to deal with — and not all senators, despite their appreciation and respect for his service, have such fond recollections.Plus, a dozen Republican senators last week broke with Mr. Trump on his declaration of an emergency to redirect federal dollars to his wall along the southwestern border, prompting some backlash at home and giving Republican lawmakers pause about the prospect of challenging the president.In most Republican-dominated states, the president remains far more popular with Republican voters than the senators who represent them. Mr. McCain was no favorite of the more conservative voters who now dominate in party strongholds, one of the reasons Mr. Trump’s initial campaign attack on the party’s 2008 nominee — “I like people who weren’t captured” — did little damage with the base.At the same time, aides reported that senators traveling their states were not being pressed on Mr. Trump’s attack on Mr. McCain by either the public or local news media.No one can be sure what is driving Mr. Trump, but there are multiple potential explanations. Mr. Trump himself highlighted the fact that Mr. McCain had personally presented to the F.B.I. the unconfirmed private intelligence report, the so-called dossier, suggesting ties between Mr. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and the Russian government, as well as other misconduct.“He turned it over to the F.B.I., hoping to put me in jeopardy,” Mr. Trump told the crowd in Ohio. “And that’s not the nicest thing to do.”With his decisive vote against repeal of the health care law, Mr. McCain, through his famous thumbs-down gesture, denied the president the chance to achieve one of his central campaign promises. Mr. Trump also skewered Mr. McCain for his support of armed intervention in the Middle East. Perhaps most astoundingly, the president dinged Mr. McCain and his family for not thanking him for his cooperation in staging a funeral to which he was not invited — and which he had no role in.The Washington National Cathedral, where a memorial service for Mr. McCain was held, released a statement on Thursday, saying: “Only a state funeral for a former president involves consultation with government officials. No funeral at the cathedral requires the approval of the president or any other government official.”No matter to Mr. Trump.“That’s O.K.,” he said. “We sent him on his way.”Mr. McCain is indeed gone, no longer roaming the Capitol hallways where he capably defended himself. Were he here, he would no doubt relish the extent to which he has somehow gotten into Mr. Trump’s head even in death, not to mention the bind in which he has put politically cautious colleagues forced to pick between him and the president.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn health care, this isn’t what Trump’s voters bargained for. By Jamelle BouieOpinion ColumnistCleared of “collusion” and flush with victory, President Trump is a man unleashed, ready to tackle everything that’s evaded him over the last two years. His first target is health care. “We’re going to get rid of Obamacare,” Trump said at a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Thursday. “And I said the other day, the Republican Party will become the party of great health care. It’s good. It’s important.”To that end, Trump had directed the Justice Department on Monday to seek the invalidation of the entire law, backing a federal district judge in Texas who declared it unconstitutional late last year.Unraveling the Affordable Care Act would deal a catastrophic blow to the safety net. The health exchanges and new insurance regulations? Gone. Medicaid expansion, which even in its truncated form has reached people in 36 states? Gone. The host of protections for people who get health care through jobs and private insurers? Gone. Republican elites might cheer this destruction, but soon enough they would face millions of voters who pulled levers in 2016 believing that Trump and the Republican Party would protect them.Remember, Trump did not run for president as an orthodox conservative Republican. He embraced social programs and so-called entitlements, rejecting the party’s boilerplate on government and the economy. “I’m not going to cut Social Security like every other Republican, and I’m not going to cut Medicare or Medicaid,” he said during the campaign. Elaborating on health care, he told CBS News that “everybody’s got to be covered,” which he called an “un-Republican thing” to say. “I am going to take care of everybody,” he added. “I don’t care if it costs me votes or not.”This rhetoric mattered. Trump’s victory hinged on a group of voters supportive of programs like Social Security and Medicare but hostile toward Hispanic immigrants, Muslims and black Americans. These voters were cross-pressured: They were both opposed to conservative anti-government ideology and repelled by racial and cultural liberalism.Trump relieved that pressure. He embraced the welfare state and demonized racial and religious minorities, attracting the most racially resentful whites from across the political spectrum. The substantial minority of Democrats who believed that “discrimination against whites is as big a problem today as discrimination against blacks and other minorities” could back a Republican presidential candidate without sacrificing their support for signature Democratic programs. They could indulge their racial chauvinism without jeopardizing their other priorities.A disciplined Trump could have reshaped the Republican Party’s agenda to meet the economic concerns of its increasingly blue-collar base, sidelining the anti-government conservatism of figures like the former speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, or Senator Ted Cruz. There was a glimpse of this  at the start of his term, from an Inaugural Address devoted to “the forgotten men and women of our country” to the promise of “economic nationalism” from Steve Bannon, then the president’s “chief strategist.”Instead, Trump ceded most of his domestic agenda to the most conservative Republicans, with Ryan and the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, taking the lead in Congress and a cadre of ideologues shaping policy inside and outside the White House. Out was Trump’s health care for everyone; in was an aggressive effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act and unravel Medicaid. Out was a $1 trillion infrastructure project; in was a nearly $2 trillion tax cut weighted toward large corporations and wealthy individuals.Key officials have moved the administration even further to the right. As director of the Office of Management and Budget, Mick Mulvaney wrote proposals with deep, destructive cuts to the social safety net. Now working as White House chief of staff, he appears to be the driving force behind this new attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act. He persuaded Trump to join a lawsuit by Republican attorneys general to invalidate the law, reportedly over the objections of Alex Azar, the health and human services secretary, and Attorney General William Barr, who will have to carry out the effort.But while Trump’s decision to govern for conservatives has netted him high approval ratings with Republicans who remain loyal to him, it has also undermined the coalition that put him in the White House, threatening his prospects for re-election.We saw some of this with the midterms. The drive to repeal Obamacare was a major reason Republicans lost their majority in the House of Representatives. The attempt  made Trump’s approval rating plunge to the mid-30s, lower than that of other presidents at that point in their first term. Large majorities opposed the bill to repeal and replace the health care law, and 60 percent said it was a “good thing” it failed to pass. Forty-two percent of voters named health care as their top issue in the midterms, and 77 percent of them backed Democrats.In 2016, Trump ran without the burden of a record. He could be everything to everyone — he could say what people wanted to hear. And he used that to reach out to working-class whites as a moderate on the economy and a hard-line conservative on race and immigration.Now, as president, Trump is a standard-issue Republican with an almost total commitment to conservative economic policy. Those policies are unpopular. And they have created an opening for Democrats to win back some of the voters they’ve lost.Speaking to The Washington Post, Chris Christie, the New Jersey governor who became an early Trump ally, summarized the conventional wisdom after Robert Mueller cleared the president of “collusion” and deferred on obstruction of justice. “It lifts a cloud that was over the White House for the entire time he was there,” Christie said.But if you accept that voters will evaluate Trump the way they would an ordinary president, then the greatest threat to his political future was never just scandal and investigation. Instead, it was the vast gap between what he promised on the trail and what he has delivered in the White House. If Americans reject him in 2020, it will be in part because he has lost many of the people he said he would help.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Jamelle Bouie became a New York Times Opinion columnist in 2019. Before that he was the chief political correspondent for Slate magazine. He is based in Charlottesville, Va., and Washington.  @jbouie Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael WinesGREENSBORO, N.C. — On the east side of Greensboro, the boundary separating North Carolina’s 6th and 13th congressional districts takes an abrupt detour. The line yanks hard to the west until it reaches Laurel Street, turns northward, and disappears into the brown-brick campus of North Carolina A&T State University, where it neatly bisects the nation’s largest historically black college.Five dormitories lie in the 6th district; seven in the 13th. All are in unassailably Republican territory, as the line splits both the university and the city’s mostly Democratic 285,000 residents between two conservative rural bastions.Nikolaus Knight, a senior and political science major, was assigned to a new dormitory after his freshman year — and had to re-register to vote as a result. “We had the power as a student body to sway an election,” he said. “And our voice as a campus was stripped away when we were cut in half.”This is the power of mapmaking by the state’s Republican legislature, which drew new political borders three years ago that allowed Republicans to capture 10 of this state’s 13 House seats last fall, even though nearly half of all House votes went to Democratic candidates.Nobody disputes that the North Carolina map was drafted to elect a maximum number of Republicans to the House, not even the Republicans themselves. The map has a 10-3 Republican tilt, one of its drafters said, “because I do not believe it’s possible to draw a map with 11 Republicans and two Democrats.”On Tuesday, the Supreme Court will hear arguments over whether such partisanship violates the Constitution. One case involves the Republican-drawn map in North Carolina. A companion case centers on Maryland’s 6th Congressional District, which Democrats admit they redrew in 2011 to make it harder for the Republican incumbent there to win re-election.The two cases hold the potential to set the course of American politics for generations. A decision to rein in partisan gerrymanders could reshape House maps in a number of states, largely but not exclusively to the benefit of Democrats. A decision not to rein in the mapmakers would give both political parties carte blanche to entrench themselves and hogtie their opponents when state legislatures draw the next decade’s House districts in 2021.The justices have dodged the issue of gerrymandering for decades, gridlocked over whether it is even possible to distinguish acceptably partisan maps from unconstitutional ones.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. worried aloud last year that creating a legal standard to identify partisan gerrymanders would turn the court into a sort of electoral kingmaker.But now the North Carolina House map could force him and other justices to confront the issue head-on. The redrawing of Maryland’s House map by Democrats was also baldly political, ousting a 20-year Republican incumbent by infusing the rural 6th District with tens of thousands of urban Democrats. But compared with the lawmakers in North Carolina, the Maryland Democrats were restrained, turning down maps that would have wiped out the state’s other Republican-leaning House district as well.Created three years ago, the North Carolina map was drawn for overtly partisan reasons. Indeed, the Republican chairman of the state House Elections Committee, Representative David R. Lewis, opened the drafting session by saying, “I acknowledge freely that this would be a political gerrymander.” Republicans ordered that the next map create “as many districts as possible in which G.O.P. candidates would be able to successfully compete for office.”The result, drawn by the master Republican redistricting strategist Thomas B. Hofeller, met that mandate. It anchored three overwhelmingly Democratic districts in liberal cities — Charlotte, Raleigh and Durham. The remaining urban strongholds, in Asheville, Fayetteville and Greensboro-Winston-Salem, were filleted along party lines, with their most Democratic areas absorbed by otherwise rural Republican territories.Democrats in the state had done their share of gerrymandering in the past, but it was nowhere near what the Republicans were now doing.The map eliminated any competition for House seats in all but the most exceptional circumstances. In November, amid the strongest national Democratic electoral performance since Watergate, only one of the 10 Republican-held House seats was in serious jeopardy (that race, in the 9th Congressional District, was marred by election fraud complaints and will be rerun this summer). Democrats won the three districts that were gerrymandered in their favor by an average of 45 percentage points.That highlights collateral damage from gerrymanders that is sometimes overlooked: Not only do they entrench a majority party, but they weaken the opposition as well. Candidates don’t want to run losing races, and donors and parties don’t want to support them.Pete Glidewell can testify to that. Mr. Glidewell, a real-estate agent and Democratic activist in Elon, about 15 miles from Greensboro, ran in 2016 against the incumbent Republican in the newly drawn Sixth Congressional District, Mark Walker. Mr. Walker had won in 2014 with nearly 59 percent of the vote; Mr. Glidewell was the only Democrat to oppose him. “I thought I was better qualified than him,” he said. “I still do.”Mr. Glidewell soon got a call from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the arm of the Democratic Party that doles out money and tactical support to House candidates. They were seeking a donation.“I said, ‘Ma’am, I am actually running for Congress in this district, and I wish you’d pass along that I need as much help as you say you do,’” he recalled. But to the committee, Mr. Glidewell was a lost cause. “They wouldn’t talk to me,” he said.In the campaign that followed, Mr. Glidewell’s largest contribution, $5,400, came from his wife. His campaign cost $93,300, most of it spent on internet advertising, yard signs and car magnets. “No television,” he said. “We couldn’t afford it.” Mr. Walker’s campaign spent more than that — $94,716, to be precise — on fund-raising consultants alone.That November, Mr. Walker shellacked Mr. Glidewell, 59 percent to 41 percent, and had more than $225,000 in unspent donations in the bank. Other incumbent House members have leftover funds from past campaigns, too — $2.4 million, in one case. “So it’s even more impossible to get a credible opponent,” Mr. Glidewell said.Tim Moreland is a Democratic political operative in Guilford County, where Greensboro is located. He said that uncompetitive districts lead to lazy incumbents, less-qualified challengers and election campaigns that provide little clarity.“We get a lot of politicians who have been in seats for a very long time,” he said. “They’ve never had to run a competitive election, or raise a lot of money, or work to build relationships with the other party. Input from the average voter matters less and less.”Some academics dispute it, but political veterans say gerrymanders widen political divisions because incumbents have no incentive to court moderates and swing voters.“If the most competitive race you’ve got is against some right-wing or left-wing person in the primary, and you don’t have to worry about the general election, you end up with representatives who aren’t really representative,” Thomas Mills, a onetime Democratic campaign consultant who ran his own losing campaign for a gerrymandered House seat in 2016, said in an interview.The case against partisan gerrymanders is not merely a Democratic one. Republican candidates in North Carolina’s three safe Democratic House seats also were disenfranchised, along with their supporters. So were Republicans in Maryland’s 6th District.The plaintiffs in the North Carolina and Maryland cases argue that the maps violate the Constitution in a number of ways. They say the maps effectively punish supporters of gerrymandered candidates for expressing their political preference, violating both the First Amendment and the Fourteenth Amendment, which guarantees equal treatment under the law.And they say the maps pervert Article One of the Constitution, whose rationale for frequent House elections was to make the chamber’s members more responsive to the American people. But with a gerrymander, they argue, the people have almost no voice.Yet even if a majority of the justices agree, that may not carry the day for the opponents of gerrymanders. The question of how to spot rigged maps still remains: Since no political map is completely free of bias, how do judges distinguish between the acceptable and the unacceptable?Defenders of North Carolina and Maryland’s maps say the court has no business trying, and will shred its reputation for above-the-fray fairness if it starts deciding whether maps favor one party or another. Partisan gerrymandering, they say, is a political issue best addressed by the politicians in Congress and the states.But that is precisely the issue, voting-rights advocates say: Gerrymanders are creations of lawmakers, who have seldom had much interest in curbing their own power.And the modern tools of map-drawing — powerful computers and software, and an unprecedented cascade of data on voters — have allowed drafters to turn political districts into near-impregnable fortresses that can sustain a party’s hold on power from one redistricting cycle to the next.“Because of the availability of data, we can aggregate voting patterns and organize them in a way that the political system can be controlled by decision makers,” said Douglas Berger, a Durham lawyer and a plaintiff in one of the North Carolina lawsuits.He speaks from experience. His firm’s political-action committee uses data analytics to assess a candidate’s prospects with ever-greater precision before deciding whether to donate to a campaign. Partly because of that, the PAC largely steers clear of supporting North Carolina candidates for the House.Yet technology may also provide an answer to the conundrum that has kept the court from acting.Social scientists have devised a host of new yardsticks in recent years for gauging partisan leanings in maps. Perhaps most important among them is that advances in computing now permit experts to randomly generate thousands and even millions of hypothetical maps, all drawn using the same criteria, that can be compared with the maps challenged in gerrymander trials. Mathematical formulas can then calculate whether a challenged map is part of the pack in its partisan tilt or is at the extremes — a “statistical outlier,” in redistricting parlance.That already has been done in the federal trial challenging the North Carolina gerrymander. There, an expert witness for the plaintiffs randomly generated 3,000 simulated congressional district maps using the same demographic data as the official map that has regularly awarded Republicans 10 of 13 seats.None of the 3,000 gave the party more than nine seats.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Republican leaders scrambled to keep rank-and-file members in line ahead of a House vote on Tuesday to kill President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the Mexican border, as Democrats appealed to Republicans to protect Congress’s constitutional power to control federal spending.The House’s vote on a declaration of disapproval will force Republicans to choose between the congressional prerogative over federal spending established in the Constitution and a president determined to go around the legislative branch to secure funds for a border wall that Congress has refused to grant.Many Republicans were clearly uneasy with the president’s action, but few were ready to declare their support for legislation overturning it.On Monday, Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, became the second Republican senator to say he would support the Democratic resolution.“There is no intellectual honesty in now turning around and arguing that there’s an imaginary asterisk attached to executive overreach — that it’s acceptable for my party but not thy party,” Mr. Tillis wrote in an opinion article published Monday in The Washington Post.Last week, Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said she would support a resolution, barring any extraneous additions. Other Republicans were holding their fire.“I wish it wasn’t necessary” for Mr. Trump to have declared a national emergency, said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, arguing that the issue could have been avoided if Democrats had agreed to more funding for physical border barriers.“I think it’s a shame that what should be a nonpartisan issue has turned into obviously a very partisan issue,” he added. “I’m still considering my alternatives.”The resolution is expected to sail through the House on Democratic votes, but significant Republican defections would give it momentum in the Senate and could raise the specter — however remote — that Congress could override Mr. Trump’s promised veto, should the resolution reach his desk.Democrats framed Tuesday’s vote as a referendum on protecting the separation of powers and Congress’s constitutional right to determine federal spending levels — an argument that appealed to several conservatives in both chambers.Representative Joaquin Castro, Democrat of Texas and the author of the resolution, warned Monday at a news conference that without congressional interference, Mr. Trump would “try this again on other issues,” while Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California expressed confidence that her Republican colleagues’ belief in the separation of powers would push them to support the one-page resolution.“This isn’t about the border,” she said. “This is about the Constitution of the United States.”But Democrats were also making a less lofty case to wavering Republicans. They circulated a list of all of the possible military construction projects in each district that could lose money shifted instead to Mr. Trump’s wall.Several lawsuits have already been filed to challenge the merits of the declaration, but the easiest way for Congress to counter it is through the resolution of disapproval, authorized by the National Emergencies Act of 1976. Once it passes the House, the Senate is required under the law to take it up within 18 days.On Monday, Mr. Trump trained his attention on the Senate, where only four Republican votes are needed to pass the measure, should Democrats remain united, as expected. The president warned Republicans, via Twitter, not to “fall into the Democrats ‘trap’ of Open Borders and Crime!”Several conservative senators have expressed concern that Mr. Trump’s declaration is setting a precedent that could be used by a Democratic president determined to secure funds that Congress will not give.Others have balked at the prospect of siphoning money away from military projects. Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa — who said he was “leaning no” on voting for the resolution — suggested that Congress review the power to declare national emergencies granted to the president under the National Emergencies Act.Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, called Mr. Trump’s declaration “unnecessary, unwise and inconsistent with the Constitution.” Yet he declined to say how he would vote on a resolution ending it, telling reporters, “I’m going to wait and see what the resolution says.”In the House, top Republicans were urging their members to focus on what they say is a legitimate need for border security money and the precedent set by other presidents who have declared their own national emergencies, according to one Republican aide.Only one House Republican, Representative Justin Amash of Michigan, has signed on to the resolution to block the declaration, scorning the idea that congressional Republicans who attacked President Barack Obama’s use of executive powers “now cry out for a king to usurp legislative powers.”Top Republicans, including Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the minority leader, said they were confident that there will be enough support to prevent the two-thirds majority needed to override the veto. But Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, and other members of his vote-counting team were set to lobby for votes against the resolution during a session on Monday night.Democrats’ argument was buoyed by two letters from more than 25 former Republican lawmakers and nearly 60 former senior national security officials, who appealed to Congress to end the national emergency declaration.“It has always been a Republican fundamental principle that no matter how strong our policy preferences, no matter how deep our loyalties to presidents or party leaders, in order to remain a constitutional republic, we must act within the borders of the Constitution,” wrote the former members of Congress, including Senators John C. Danforth, Chuck Hagel, Olympia J. Snowe and Richard G. Lugar, who implored Republicans to protect Congress’s constitutionally mandated power of the purse.The security officials said there is neither a “documented terrorist or national security emergency at the southern border” nor an “emergency related to violent crime.”Mr. Trump’s assertions “are rebutted not just by the public record, but by his agencies’ own official data, documents and statements,” the officials, including Madeleine Albright, the former secretary of state, and John O. Brennan, the former C.I.A. director, said in their declaration.“Under no plausible assessment of the evidence is there a national emergency today,” they wrote.“This isn’t about Trump or the wall, this is beyond that,” said former Representative Mickey Edwards, Republican of Oklahoma and the author of the letter to conservative lawmakers. “This is about the constitutional obligations of Congress and how much Congress is going to surrender those duties.”“If Congress gives up the power of deciding what money you can spend and where,” he added, “it has basically surrendered its entire constitutional obligation.”Members of the House Appropriations Committee will hold a hearing on Wednesday to examine the effect of the declaration on military construction and readiness, and members of the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on Thursday in part to examine Mr. Trump’s use of powers under the National Emergencies Act.“If we’re going to let the president, any president, on a whim declare emergencies simply because he or she can’t get their way in Congress, we have fundamentally changed the building blocks, the strong, proud building blocks that the Founding Fathers put in place,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, in a speech on the Senate floor.Katie Benner, Catie Edmondson and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn WashingtonBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON — It’s an emerging rallying cry on the left: Expand the Supreme Court and eliminate the Senate filibuster.Still seething over Republican obstruction during the Obama administration that peaked in 2016 with the blockade against the Supreme Court nominee Merrick B. Garland, liberal groups are encouraging Democrats running for president and the Senate to commit to enlarging the court and scuttling the Senate’s famous procedural weapon.The intensifying push for those fundamental changes could add an explosive element to the 2020 campaign as candidates are forced to take a stand on structural changes in how government works. Multiple Democratic candidates have already said they would at least consider both possibilities, and activists intend to keep the pressure on to turn those proposals into top-tier issues.“We cannot surrender to a status quo where Trump judges are set to block any solutions on health care, climate change or gun safety for the next 30 years,” said Brian Fallon, the head of Demand Justice, a liberal advocacy group focused on the federal judiciary. “The debate is quickly moving past the question of whether Democrats should seek to reform our courts at all to the question of exactly what type of reform to pursue.”Ditching the filibuster and adding to the court to offset what many Democrats see as illegitimate conservative appointments by President Trump would probably have to occur in tandem if they were to occur at all.Even if Democrats recaptured the White House and Senate while holding on to the House, Republicans — quite happy with the current makeup of the Supreme Court and hoping Mr. Trump can move it even further right — would almost certainly still have the votes to filibuster an expansion of the court. So Democratic activists who want to expand the court and push through other sweeping legislation say it would be time for the filibuster to go, too.“We have to take back the Senate and ram a ton of big-time stuff through as fast as we can, and then face the voters with pride in what we’ve accomplished,” said Adam Jentleson, who was a top aide to Harry Reid when he was Senate Democratic leader.It doesn’t always work out. The rush of legislation passed by strong Democratic majorities in 2009 and 2010, and signed by a Democratic president, Barack Obama, led to an enormous backlash in the 2010 midterm elections — even if much of that legislation is now popular.And not all Democrats are ready to abolish the procedural tactic that allows the minority to tie up the majority legislatively if it cannot secure 60 votes. Far from it. Many Senate Democrats are still smarting after their 2013 rules change that weakened the filibuster against presidential nominees, opening the door for Mr. Trump to push conservatives onto the Supreme Court and the lower courts. They urge caution.Senator Chris Coons, a Democrat of Delaware who was part of an unsuccessful 2017 effort to head off a Republican change that eliminated the 60-vote filibuster against Supreme Court nominees, said Democrats instead should focus on passing legislation with Republican help.“The most important, the most significant, the longest pieces of reform in American history have been bipartisan,” Mr. Coons said in an interview. “We need to get back to passing meaningful legislation with bipartisan support.”“Those who think it is a solution,” Mr. Coons said about eliminating the filibuster, “should spend some time serving in the House.” That was a pointed reference to the strong majority rule that exists across the Rotunda in the House, where the minority is often steamrollered and treated as irrelevant by the party in charge.Both Mr. Coons and Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, also part of the 2017 effort to preserve the Supreme Court filibuster, say that expanding the court will only add to the intensifying political aura around what is supposed to be a nonpartisan branch of government.They say they recognize that Senate Republicans, led by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, have strong-armed two Trump appointees — Justices Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh — onto the Supreme Court after blocking President Obama’s nomination of Judge Garland for almost a year. But they say that doesn’t mean Democrats should respond in kind.“I know it is tempting to imagine everything we could do with 51 votes, but we also have a responsibility to consider everything Republicans could do and undo,” said Mr. Bennet, who is weighing his own run for the Democratic presidential nomination. “The lower-vote threshold has degraded the quality of judicial nominees and cabinet appointees — many of whom would never have been confirmed under the previous standard.”Other Democrats worry the rising cry for structural changes such as ending the filibuster and eliminating the presidential Electoral College — another emerging theme — will allow Republicans to paint Democrats as a sore-loser party that pushes to change the rules when it cannot win elections. They fear it will turn off voters leery of tinkering too much with the United States’ governing institutions.Republicans moved quickly to respond.Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, called this week for a constitutional amendment that fixes the membership of the Supreme Court at nine and drew strong Republican support.“The Democrats’ court-packing proposal represents the latest shortsighted effort to undermine America’s confidence in our institutions and our democracy,” Mr. Rubio said.Senator Marsha Blackburn, a freshman Republican from Tennessee, said there was “no plausible reason to add more justices other than for Democrats to add judges who will legislate from the bench and further policies that failed to pass through Congress.”Mr. Trump repeatedly agitated for eliminating the filibuster in his first two years in office, when Senate Democrats stymied him even though Republicans controlled the House and Senate. That push seems to have died down now that Democrats control the House. In the past, Mr. Trump also backed electing presidents through the popular vote, but he has changed positions after losing the popular vote and winning the Electoral College in 2016.Despite pushback by Republicans and some Democrats, the discussion about sweeping institutional changes is only increasing on the left and will no doubt be a central element of the Democratic primary debate given deep frustration among activists. David Axelrod, the former top political strategist for Mr. Obama, said he believed “Democratic primary candidates are fishing in a promising pond” when it came to the filibuster and court issues.“There is a sense that the filibuster, once an extraordinary tool, has become so commonplace as to make a mockery of majority rule,” Mr. Axelrod said. “And McConnell’s yearlong roadblock of the Garland nomination has heightened a feeling that the court has been packed.”Political process arguments are usually seen as the fallback for someone losing the main fight. But in this election cycle, where Democratic candidates fall on the political process argument might instead be a key to winning.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.OpinionJulian E. ZelizerAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa FriedmanWASHINGTON — The Senate blocked consideration of the Green New Deal on Tuesday, ending a Republican effort to hitch Democratic presidential candidates to the climate plan and paint Democrats as out-of-touch socialists and fantasists.The resolution that Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, put to a test vote called on the federal government to rapidly eliminate planet-warming fossil fuel emissions; accelerate the deployment of wind, solar and other zero-carbon energy sources; and create a national jobs program.But the procedural motion simply to take up the Green New Deal failed to get a single vote. Democrats, including those who were sponsors of the resolution, denounced the move as a sham intended to divide their party and provide Republicans with election-season talking points. They overwhelmingly voted “present” on the motion, and it failed, 0 to 57.Three Democratic senators — Joe Manchin III, who represents coal-heavy West Virginia; Doug Jones of Alabama; and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona — joined Republicans voting no, as did Senator Angus King, an independent from Maine.But the hours of discussion that preceded the desultory procedural vote marked the most extensive examination of climate change on the Senate floor in years. The fight also took on larger dimensions as a proxy for the 2020 presidential battle, with Republicans charging that liberals intend to raise energy costs and devastate middle-class livelihoods, and Democrats blasting their counterparts for climate denial and inaction on an issue most Americans agree is serious.The day of drama included Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, exhibiting a poster of former President Ronald Reagan astride a dinosaur in an effort to treat the Green New Deal with “the seriousness it deserves.” Mr. McConnell dismissed the plan as a “science-fiction novel.” Outside the Senate, environmental activists chanted: “What do we want? A Green New Deal. When do we want it? Now!” even as they clarified that they did not actually want the Senate to pass this particular Green New Deal resolution at this precise moment.“To ordinary people, climate change is not politics. It’s life and death,” said Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts and a sponsor of the Senate version of the Green New Deal. Mr. Markey accused Republicans of trying to “sabotage” efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions and predicted that “they will pay a price at the ballot box in 2020.”Still, the maneuvering ultimately allowed both parties to declare political victory.Democrats said they intended to move forward on a number of fronts. In the House, a senior Democratic leadership aide said lawmakers would introduce sweeping legislation this week to require the Trump administration to stay in the Paris Agreement on climate change and create a plan for meeting the United States’ commitment to the global climate deal.In the Senate, Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, and Brian Schatz of Hawaii will announce a new special committee on climate change. Democrats are also expected to push to prioritize climate change in coming legislation on infrastructure and a deal to raise spending caps.Environmental activists said they believed the Republican strategy to ridicule, campaign on and raise money off the Green New Deal had backfired, with even Mr. McConnell acknowledging at a news conference on Tuesday that climate change was real and caused by human activity.“Mitch McConnell bet big that today’s vote would fracture the Democratic caucus,” said Varshini Prakash, the executive director of the Sunrise Movement, a youth movement for climate action. “Today he bet wrong,” she added.Shortly after the vote, however, Republicans including Mr. McConnell and Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming were scheduled to appear at a $500-a-plate fund-raiser for Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa at the National Mining Association, the chief lobbying group for the coal industry.Republicans meanwhile boasted that they had exposed a plan so extreme that even Democrats shied away from it.“Democrats are trying to duck, dodge and distance themselves from a vote on their own Green New Deal,” Mr. Barrasso said. “Every Democrat senator running for president supported it. Now when given the chance to actually go on the record, Democrats are desperate to avoid it.”All six presidential candidates in the Senate — Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts — had been sponsors of the Green New Deal.Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — Time and again — when President Trump stood by Saudi Arabia after the killing of a Virginia-based journalist, when it looked as if he might intervene in the special counsel’s Russia investigation and when he threatened to declare a national emergency to pay for his border wall — lawmakers on Capitol Hill warned him not to push them too far.This week, in a remarkable series of bipartisan rebukes to the president, Congress pushed back.On Wednesday, with seven Republicans breaking ranks, the Senate joined the Democrat-led House in voting to end American military aid to Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen in protest over the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, a columnist for The Washington Post. On Thursday morning, the House voted unanimously on a nonbinding resolution to make public the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.And on Thursday afternoon, 12 Republican senators abandoned the president to pass legislation, already adopted by the House, that would block Mr. Trump from declaring a national emergency to build his border wall — an act of defiance that he has vowed to overturn with the first veto of his presidency.“We’re saying today, ‘No, we do not acquiesce to this,’” Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, said after voting to block the emergency declaration. “We do not agree that the president should be able to come in and go against the express intention of the Congress when it comes to these appropriated funds” for his wall.The series of votes vividly demonstrated a newfound willingness to stand up to the president among some of his Republican allies on Capitol Hill. And they underscored a deep frustration in Congress about the president’s supposed scorn for a coequal branch of government.“We have an issue that has been litigated and adjudicated through Congress. I mean, what was more litigated than this very question? We had a government shutdown for crying out loud,” said Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, referring to funding for the border wall, which Mr. Trump is trying to secure with an emergency declaration that would circumvent Congress.“It’s about separation of powers,” Mr. Toomey said. “It’s about respecting the principles of the Constitution.”For some Republicans, particularly those who have typically voted in lock step with the president, the votes were a moment of soul searching during a harried week before recess, when most lawmakers were looking forward to getting out of town. The Yemen vote was an exceedingly rare invocation of the 1973 War Powers Act, passed after the Vietnam War to restrain the president’s authority to use military force.“We don’t often have great votes about great questions around here about separation of powers,” said Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, adding, “I don’t think you can overstate how important it is that for the first time in the history of the country, the full Congress voted to tell the president that we can’t be in a war.”Mr. Trump made it clear he would fight the bipartisan challenges to his authority.“He feels good,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, a close ally of Mr. Trump who talked to the president shortly after the vote. “He said, ‘My veto will be sustained?’ I said, ‘Yeah, overwhelmingly.’ He feels like his commitment to build the wall is moving forward.”But the rare coalition of Democrats and Republicans could bolster legal challenges to the emergency declaration that could tie up wall funding indefinitely. And the mere act of defying Mr. Trump foreshadows potential new difficulty for the president as he seeks to push his agenda through a Democrat-controlled House and a less pliant Republican-controlled Senate.“There are moments where you see a partisan rebuke” of the president by Congress, said William G. Howell, a political scientist at the University of Chicago and the author of “Power Without Persuasion: The Politics of Direct Presidential Action.” “They are really pretty infrequent, and when you do observe them it speaks to real tumult in the party.”Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said he hoped “the votes this week are green shoots: Republicans, out of courage, out of principle and maybe out of principle or maybe exasperation, are beginning to constrain the president when he goes too far.”Most Republicans cast their votes as a matter of conscience, and some Republicans who fashion themselves “constitutional conservatives,” such as Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, tied themselves in knots explaining how vexed they were to side with the president. Senator Thom Tillis of North Carolina, one of the first Republicans to declare his support for overturning the emergency declaration, faced a huge backlash from conservatives and flipped his vote at the last second.House Republicans, who joined Democrats in voting to call for Mr. Mueller’s report to be made public, insist there was no tumult.But Democrats saw it as an important declaration of principle. “Congress is finally asserting its authority under the Constitution — with enthusiasm,” said Representative Donna E. Shalala, Democrat of Florida, who spent eight years in the executive branch as health secretary to President Bill Clinton.The rejection of Mr. Trump’s national emergency declaration could also give ammunition to a half-dozen legal cases challenging the president’s exercise of that power under the 1976 National Emergencies Act, said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who led the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush.“Some judges may count that as evidence of congressional intent,” Mr. Goldsmith said, though he added that he disagreed with that view.Dror Ladin, a staff lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union, said Congress’s action would help convince federal judges that the president was acting illegally to fund his wall.“This vote reinforces that the president has no right to that money,” Mr. Ladin said.But as a political matter, Mr. Trump could use the congressional votes to his advantage on the 2020 campaign trail, portraying himself once again as the outsider candidate battling an unpopular Congress and the establishment in Washington.Congress has for decades been what Ross K. Baker, a political scientist at Rutgers University, calls a “constitutional weakling” — excessively deferential to the president. But there have been moments in history where the legislative branch seeks to assert its power and relevance, particularly with respect to the military and foreign engagement.That happened in the 1970s with the passage of the War Powers Act, which gave Congress the ability to compel the removal of military forces absent a formal declaration of war. Congress exerted its authority in 1991 and again in 2002, when it authorized the president to use military force in the run-up to both wars in Iraq.In 2005, amid a public uproar over the torture of detainees, Congress tightened antitorture laws to ban the infliction of “cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment” on prisoners — including those held overseas by the C.I.A. — over the objections of President Bush.Now the fight over wall funding may incite yet another round of congressional muscle-flexing. A number of Republicans are pushing legislation to claw back the powers that Congress gave the president in the National Emergencies Act, which Mr. Trump invoked to declare an emergency along the southwestern border.“The Senate’s waking up a little bit to our responsibilities,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn WashingtonBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON — Members of Congress like to say that governing is not a game, but they are increasingly playing round after round of gotcha.As a watershed election looms next year and little of real significance is happening on the legislative front, lawmakers are consumed with trying to trap one another with hot-button votes that don’t have much to do with real legislative business.Whether such show votes really matter when it comes to actual voters is another issue entirely. It is hard to find a case in which an incumbent senator or representative was knocked off solely because of an ill-considered decision in a postmidnight vote-a-rama in the Senate or on a particularly devious motion to recommit in the House.“It’s unlikely that a single vote will undermine a member’s re-election chances,” said Nathan L. Gonzales, the nonpartisan political handicapper and editor and publisher of Inside Elections.Still, that is not going to stop anyone — particularly Republicans at the moment — from trying. Much of the activity on Capitol Hill these days is more akin to trolling on Twitter than tackling national priorities.For instance, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, is gleefully preparing to force Democrats to take a stand on the so-called Green New Deal resolution, which, among other things, calls for 100 percent of American energy to come from clean sources within 10 years.The nonbinding document is essentially a set of ambitious progressive goals that has zero chance of passage in a Republican-controlled Senate with Donald J. Trump as president. As legislation, it would take years to develop and push through Congress. But Republicans are itching for a vote now to get Democrats, notably the presidential contenders, on the record. They have relentlessly mocked the Green New Deal as a framework for eliminating airplane travel and cheeseburgers because of restrictions on fossil fuels and cow emissions.“We have done some wacky things on our side, but this is the wackiest thing I have ever seen,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee.Democrats call the coming Republican maneuver a cynical stunt. They have suggested they will simply vote “present” and not be recorded on the resolution — a stance that may cost them with progressives who want Democrats to have the courage of their convictions no matter how premature the vote might be.At the same time, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, has demanded that Republicans offer an alternative, an offer they seem unlikely to accept. He also wants a vote on a separate Democratic resolution that would call for immediate action on climate change. His trap is to try to either force Republicans to admit climate change is real or deny it — a result that could hurt them no matter the outcome.“When is Leader McConnell going to schedule time for consideration of this and other climate change legislation?” asked Mr. Schumer, who is newly embracing climate change as an issue that appeals to younger voters.While the Senate is playing green deal or no green deal, the House is caught up in an arcane struggle that gives the term “inside baseball” a bad name. Newly relegated to the minority, House Republicans have been tormenting the Democratic majority with what is known as a motion to recommit.It is basically one final opportunity for the minority party to amend legislation about to pass on the floor. It has been transformed by both parties over the years as minority leaders have learned to spring politically charged M.T.R.s, as they are known, on the majority at the last minute. Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago, a former member of the House Democratic leadership who cut his political teeth on House races, was one of the early adapters of a weaponized motion to recommit and considered it a form of psychological political warfare.“Obviously, they are ‘gotcha’ amendments designed to give people political problems,” said Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader. “And by the way, that’s what we did. So this is not a new, you know, invention of the Republicans.”For Democrats, the problem is that Republicans seem to be better at drafting the motions. Now some are passing with the support of nervous new Democratic lawmakers from tough districts who don’t want to be caught on the wrong side of issues such as gun sales, immigration, anti-Semitism or domestic violence. The split has incited an internal party fight and has leaders worried that the more the motions pass, the more they will be considered serious rather than procedural and lead to political problems down the road.“You have members who won by less than a percentage point, and I have sympathy for them,” said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, who oversees the Rules Committee. But he said Democrats could not allow Republicans to carry the day with their political guerrilla attacks. “We cannot legitimize their underhanded tactics. It is just to put people in a bad spot.”The Republican success has some Democrats calling for a rules change to either dilute or eliminate the motion to recommit, talk that has Republicans crying foul. They say Democrats are already retreating on their pledge to make the House more transparent and bipartisan than it was under Republican control the previous eight years.“Here we are just two months into the new Democratic majority, which was touted to be about open debate, with an issue about process,” said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, the top Republican on the Rules Committee. He called discussion of changes to the motion to recommit “an affront to the institution.”Mr. McGovern said that any consideration of changes would be part of an extensive dialogue. After spending a fair amount of time in the minority himself, he showed some reluctance to tinker with the motion to recommit no matter the potential penalty for Democrats.“I still believe the minority should be guaranteed a constructive voice in the legislative process,” Mr. McGovern said. “You can’t just shut everybody out. That is not what this place is about and shouldn’t be about.”It probably also shouldn’t be about a running game of gotcha.Follow Carl Hulse on Twitter: @hillhulse.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byDealBookA Harvard study found that executives donate more heavily to Republicans. But the gap is surprising.By Andrew Ross SorkinThe Business Roundtable, the top lobbying organization for industry in Washington, is often characterized as a nonpartisan or bipartisan organization.It represents more than 200 large companies — from oil giants to tech sweethearts — with more than $7 trillion of revenue and more than 15 million workers of all political stripes. But nobody is truly apolitical, and in an age when we increasingly see our business leaders filling the vacuum left by our political leaders, it’s important that the public fully understand the views of these unelected leaders.So a team of researchers working with the Harvard Law School program on corporate governance set out to find the political inclinations of top executives — not just the 200 who make up the Business Roundtable, but all the executives of the S&P 1500, a stock index that covers 90 percent of the United States’ market capitalization.Rather than look at party affiliation or public statements, the researchers — Alma Cohen, Moshe Hazan, Roberto Tallarita and David Weiss — looked at the truest measure of political leanings: They followed the money.For the study, to be released Tuesday, they tracked personal political contributions for more than 3,500 chief executives that occupied the corner office anytime from 2000 to 2017. The period covers a two-term Republican presidency, a two-term Democratic presidency and the start of President Trump’s time in office — after he lost the popular vote but won the Electoral College. In other words, on the whole, voters have been pretty evenly divided between the parties in that time.But just 18.4 percent of the executives studied were designated as Democrats. The clear majority — 57.7 percent — demonstrated their affiliation through donations to the Republican Party. Indeed, 75 percent of donations from the median chief executive were directed to Republicans.To be counted a supporter of Republicans or Democrats, executives had to direct at least two-thirds of their donations to candidates affiliated with one party. More than a quarter of the executives studied gave enough to both parties to be classified as “neutral.” This was the landing spot of Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple. Despite his public support for Hillary Clinton in the last election and his backing of a number of progressive causes, he frequently gave money to candidates on both sides of the aisle.(Unfortunately, the researchers have not disclosed how they classified each executive, saying they wanted to focus on the whole, and not the parts. When I asked for an example, they provided me with Mr. Cook.)It is to be expected that leaders of large businesses side with Republicans, given the party’s platform of lower taxes and less regulation. But the overwhelming nature of the support for the G.O.P. is surprising, given the outspoken positions a number of executives have taken in recent years on social issues like climate change, guns and immigration policies.The results of this political science experiment has significant implications given how involved the business community has become in creating and influencing laws and public policy. “Especially since the Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United, which allowed corporations to make unlimited independent political expenditures, corporate political spending can substantially affect politics and policymaking,” the authors of the report wrote.The researchers dived deeper into some of the numbers to pull apart political leanings by specific industry, company size, region and even the gender of the executive. Republican chief executives clearly outnumbered Democrats in every industry, but the gap narrowed in the “business equipment” and “telecommunications” sectors, which included technology and internet companies. (Nearly half  of business equipment chief executives backed Republicans vs. 30.1 percent for Democrats, and 36.9 percent of telecom chiefs supported Republicans vs. 22.6 percent for Democrats).Gender differences may be the most surprising. The sample size of women from 2000 to 2017 represented only 2.8 percent of the chief executives (only 1.2 percent in 2000, and 4.4 percent by 2017), but the researchers found that women were nearly evenly split between giving to Republicans, giving to Democrats and giving to both.Our political discourse is as divided today as it has been any time since the Civil War. Debates are raging about income inequality, business regulations and capitalism itself — particularly among Democrats but increasingly among some Republicans.The opinions held by executives have always resonated beyond their own industries, but their importance is more pronounced today. Mr. Trump, for example, has not hesitated to equate economic policy with foreign policy. It is, then, instructive to understand the political views of our business leaders.These executives wield enormous influence over not just policy, but the inclinations of their own employees. One of the most fascinating revelations of the study was that it also looked at the conduct of the businesses themselves, and in the process discovered that disclosures of political donations were highly correlated with the political leaning of its chief executive. Political contributions by public companies do not have to be disclosed to shareholders, although some of companies do it. So the researchers looked instead at the which companies disclosed the donations to shareholders. Using an index developed by the Center for Political Accountability, the professors found that there was “a statistically significant association between having a Republican C.E.O. and a lower” disclosure score.Again, maybe that should be expected. Republicans typically argue against regulations, so the idea of voluntary disclosure might seem anathema to them. But for shareholders of all political leanings who rely on transparency and disclosure, the politics of a chief executive might be a more important factor than expected. Interestingly, “having a female C.E.O. is associated with increased transparency” about political contributions, the researchers found.The researchers opted not to conveniently classify executives for us, and perhaps that’s for the best. Political views do change over time, and depending on the candidates involved. Mr. Cook, for example, backed Mrs. Clinton and several state Democratic committees before the 2016 election. He also donated to the Republican House speaker, Paul Ryan. It’s up to you whether that affects how you vote with your dollars, of course. But now, more than ever, it’s worth knowing where the powerful figures in the business world are placing their bets. An earlier version of this article misidentified the positions of three researchers. Although the study was conducted through a Harvard Law School program, Moshe Hazan is a professor at Tel Aviv University, David Weiss is a lecturer at Tel Aviv University, and Roberto Tallarita is an associate director of the Harvard program. They are not Harvard professors.Andrew Ross Sorkin is a columnist and the founder and editor-at-large of DealBook. He is a co-anchor of CNBC’s Squawk Box and the author of “Too Big to Fail.” He is also the co-creator of the Showtime drama series Billions.  @andrewrsorkin • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonALGONA, Iowa — For nearly two decades, Representative Steve King pummeled Republican primary challengers, dispatched Democrats, even a former Iowa governor’s wife, and glided to victory in his conservative district. He spent little energy on fund-raising, put few controls on his racist language and made little effort to hold town halls with constituents.Then in November he was re-elected by just 10,000 votes in what he called “the nastiest, most dishonest political gauntlet that any Iowan has been put through”; two months later he was stripped of his committee assignments and rebuked by the House for comments that seemed to endorse white supremacy. Now the nine-term Iowa Republican is under attack from both the left and the right.Far from folding, though, Mr. King is returning to basics, reasserting an aggressive presence in his northwestern Iowa district, scheduling events in every county and holding as many as three town halls in a week, where constituents pack in, then linger to take photos and shake hands.“This is a really important part of our civic activity,” Mr. King told constituents crowded into a room in a library here in Algona, a northern town of about 5,000. “We have always done so, we just haven’t always told you that.”The winds have shifted, even Republicans concede.“Things are different than they’ve been before,” said Craig Robinson, a former political director of the Republican Party of Iowa. “Steve King can only be so good for so long. A lot of eyes were opened when they saw just how close he came to losing that seat in the last election cycle.”Hoping to win over prominent conservatives tired of putting out Mr. King’s fires, three Republicans — widely considered the most serious challengers Mr. King has faced in years — have already pledged to run in the 2020 primary race, including an assistant majority leader of the Iowa State Senate, Randy Feenstra, who represents one of the most conservative swaths of the district.The campaign arm of the House Democrats has also put a target on his back, and the state Democratic Party has deployed an organizer to set up a ground game for next year, the earliest Democrats have ever begun such efforts in a district that backed President Trump by nearly 30 percentage points.“We see him being held accountable. We really put a spotlight on something that was overlooked for a very long time,” said J. D. Scholten, the Democrat who lost to Mr. King in November. “You’re seeing his reaction to things where he hasn’t been held in check for years.”Regardless of scrutiny, Steve King will be Steve King. Last week, he declined to answer a question at a town hall here asking whether a “white society is superior to a nonwhite society” because the query was “so hypothetical.” At another town hall last week, he complained that Hurricane Katrina victims, who were mostly black, asked for help for only themselves, not their neighbors, while “Iowans take care of each other.”The Cedar Rapids Gazette issued a scathing editorial accusing Mr. King of choosing to “embarrass Iowans with inflammatory rhetoric.”For many western Iowans, that’s part of his appeal.“He’s a straight talker,” said Art Cullen, the Pulitzer Prize-winning editor of Mr. King’s hometown newspaper, The Storm Lake Times. “He ain’t afraid of the man. He ain’t afraid of the system. That’s powerful.”The system is clearly against him. House Republican leaders removed Mr. King from his committee assignments in January, after comments he made to The New York Times questioning why “white supremacist” was considered offensive. A number of powerful party leaders, including Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, and Representative Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the No. 3 House Republican, suggested he should resign, and the House overwhelmingly passed a resolution disapproving of Mr. King’s statements.Even before then, in October, the head of the House Republican campaign arm at the time, Representative Steve Stivers of Ohio, all but jettisoned Mr. King just a week before his election, declaring, “We must stand up against white supremacy and hate in all forms.”Mr. King has long made remarks denigrating immigrants, and they were long overlooked. Republican presidential candidates genuflected toward him as a kingmaker before the critical Iowa caucuses. Republican House leaders ducked and dodged rather than answer for Mr. King as he enmeshed himself in one scandal after another: retweeting a Nazi sympathizer, saying young unauthorized immigrants have “calves the size of cantaloupes because they’re hauling 75 pounds of marijuana across the desert,” displaying a Confederate flag and adopting white nationalist language such as “we can’t restore our civilization with somebody else’s babies.”But his close race in November signaled to members of his own party that voters’ patience may be wearing thin. Mr. Feenstra announced his primary challenge a day before Mr. King’s incendiary comments on white supremacy were published, then raised $100,000 in the next 10 days, according to The Des Moines Register.“Today, Iowa’s Fourth District doesn’t have a voice in Washington because our current representative’s caustic nature has left us without a seat at the table,” Mr. Feenstra said in January.Mr. King’s younger son and spokesman, Jeff King, was quick to fire back, telling The Register that Mr. Feenstra’s challenge amounted to “misguided political opportunism, fueled by establishment puppeteers” and “the lies of the left.”Republican strategists say the conservative tilt of Mr. King’s district and his entrenched presence will make for an uphill battle even for conservative challengers like Mr. Feenstra. But in a presidential year, when a wide-open Democratic field and antipathy toward Mr. Trump will energize liberals, Republicans should be worried.“There will be a lot of Republican activists who will defend him until the very end,” Mr. Robinson said. “But I think when we get closer to Primary Day, people’s opinion might change, because he barely held on last time, and I think it would be concerning, especially in a presidential year, that Republicans could lose this seat, which would be unfathomable.”Before 2018, the last scare Mr. King faced was in 2012, when Democrats pumped resources behind their challenger, the former Iowa first lady Christie Vilsack. She mustered less than 45 percent of the vote.This time Democrats face something of a conundrum.Mr. Scholten, a 39-year-old former minor league baseball player, must decide whether to run again for the House or shoot higher. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, flew him to Washington to discuss challenging Senator Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, according to Democrats familiar with the meeting.“The dilemma I’m having right now is that Democrats won the House, and so in order for us to pass some of these things, we need to have at least one senator from the state of Iowa be a Democrat,” Mr. Scholten said. “It’s difficult because King is the most vulnerable he has ever been, but do we advance the things that I’m fighting for if I go back to the House seat?”The decision may not be all Mr. Scholten’s to make. Mr. Schumer and his staff have also made overtures to State Senator Liz Mathis and freshman Representative Cindy Axne — and it is also unclear whether another breakout Democratic candidate exists in the Fourth Congressional District.Mr. King’s supporters say he has been unfairly treated by the national news media, and they praise him as a steadfast ally of agriculture and an anti-abortion crusader. Confronted with the question about white societies at the town hall meeting, Mr. King demurred. But his rambling anger ended with a proclamation of his belief that life begins at conception — and left his questioner agreeing with him.“Ask anyone who talked to him: Didn’t you think he was kind of like your crazy uncle?” Mr. Cullen said. “Didn’t you kind of like the guy when he was talking about white supremacy?”Many will answer yes.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byHow much does Nancy Pelosi have to worry about a left-center split?By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.There is a larger story behind the bitterness expressed inside the House Democratic caucus last week after 26 moderate Democratic members defied the leadership to support a Republican proposal to require reporting undocumented immigrants who try to buy guns to immigration authorities.Two key wings of the congressional Democratic Party have divergent political interests — on one hand the ascendant progressives led by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, many of whom have proudly declared themselves democratic socialists, and on the other the band of moderates who flipped most of the 41 districts that went from red to blue in November.The progressives are committed to an ambitious and expensive set of proposals, including a Green New Deal and Medicare for All, policies they have promised to promote unrelentingly.This agenda, and the attention it gets, has put the fear of defeat in 2020 front and center in the minds of newly elected House moderates. They see their progressive colleagues shaping an image of a Democratic House leaning so far to the left that it endangers the future of the current House majority.A story published Feb. 24 by my Times colleagues Catie Edmondson and Emily Cochrane described the agony of the moderate wing.At a town hall last month in a suburb of Salt Lake City, Ben McAdams, one of the moderate freshman Democrats, faced constituents questioning him about the “socialism” and “anti-Semitism” they had read about. “How long do you intend to ride that train with those people?” one voter asked. Another wondered whether McAdams would be “corrupted” by his service in Congress.McAdams’ answer captured the bind he and other centrists find themselves in:“There have been some articles about this, a little bit of tension on the Democratic side: Are we going to veer to the far left or are we going to stay in the center? I don’t know where the Democratic Party will go, but I tell you what, I will stay in the center. People are going to have to take it or leave it.”The question for McAdams and others is, will such declarations of independence insulate them on Election Day? Some evidence suggests that they will not.Let’s first examine the specific issue that brought intraparty Democratic tension between moderates and progressives to a boil: a seemingly bland parliamentary gambit called a “motion to recommit” — known in Congressional jargon as an M.T.R.Under House rules, the motion to recommit is one of the few mechanisms granted to the out-of-power party to shape legislation.“Controlling the Congressional agenda really is the sine qua non of a successful majority party,” Sarah Binder, a political scientist at George Washington University and a senior fellow at Brookings, told me.If there is one thing that sets Nancy Pelosi apart from other Democratic speakers, it is her ability to maintain control of the Democratic majority on key votes.It is no wonder, then, that she was outraged when these 26 moderate Democrats supported a Republican motion to recommit on Feb. 27 — explicitly designed to thwart progressive Democrats who adamantly oppose reporting undocumented immigrants to authorities. To Pelosi, the motion was an aggressive attempt on the part of House Republicans to undermine her leadership, and moderate Democratic members who supported it were seeking political cover at her expense.“We are either a team or we’re not, and we have to make that decision,” she declared at the Democratic caucus meeting. “This is not a day at the beach. This is the Congress of the United States.”In recent decades, “the motion to recommit has been weaponized,” Tom Mann, a senior fellow at Brookings, wrote me by email. “Like almost every effort on the floor by the minority party in the face of majority control of the agenda in the majoritarian House, it is an electoral weapon used to divide and weaken the majority.”Jason Roberts, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina, provided a brief history of the motion in an email. “It was made into a minority right in 1909. It did not really become controversial until the 1970s. Before then, most bills were considered under open rules” that allowed anyone from either party to offer amendments. In the 1970s, Roberts explained, the Democratic majority “began using more restrictive rules that limited or closed off amending opportunities.” This left Republicans with only one alternative to force a vote on an amendment: the motion to recommit.Both parties have made considerable use of the motion when in the minority, but historical analysis demonstrates that it has been a far more effective tool for Republicans than for Democrats.From 1995 to 2006, according to Roberts, Democrats, then in the minority, used it 262 times — but successfully only 1.1 percent of the time. In contrast, from 2007 through 2010, Republicans, then in the minority, forced votes on 181 motions to recommit and won 21.5 percent. Then, from 2011 through 2018, the Democratic minority offered 380 motions to recommit and every one of them failed in the face of united Republican opposition.During the current session of Congress, Republicans successfully won approval of a motion to recommit on legislation requiring universal background checks on all gun sales, including those conducted privately and at gun shows.The motion — passed with the support of the 26 Democratic defectors who infuriated Pelosi — amended the legislation to require notification of Immigration and Customs Enforcement when an undocumented immigrant fails a background check.Almost all of the 26 Democrats who joined Republicans to support the motion represent moderate constituencies, many of which had, until recently, been held by Republicans. Twenty three are on the 2020 National Republican Congressional Committee target list.There are two key factors that explain why Republicans in the House have been far more successful than Democrats in using the motion to recommit to divide the opposition.The first is that the concentration of Democratic voters in urban districts means that in order to win and maintain a House majority, Democrats must be victorious in highly competitive districts, many of which tilt to the right.These Democrats, in turn, are the ones who are the most cross-pressured between loyalty to the leadership and fear of losing support from center-right constituents.“There are more Democrats representing Republican-leaning districts than there are Republicans representing Democratic-leaning districts,” Frances Lee, a political scientist at the University of Maryland, wrote me in an email.In 2018, she continued, “Democrats carried a larger share of districts where members have to be careful not to antagonize their Republican-leaning constituents.”The second reason Republicans rarely provide even token support for Democratic motions to recommit is straightforward: a vast array of local and national conservative media is more than willing to denounce a turncoat. And anyone viewed as disloyal to the Republican Party is likely to face a primary challenger.Matthew Green, a political scientist at Catholic University, has studied the use of motions to recommit and describes the partisan difference as follows:“First, Democrats are more ideologically diverse than Republicans. Second, Democratic Party leaders are more divided on strategy than Republicans.”This is a serious problem, Green continued, “especially if Democrats want to maintain their control of the legislative agenda and keep peace in the family.”In the past, moderate and conservative Democrats sought to separate themselves from the more liberal national party by building a personal brand that their local voters would recognize. This worked when Tip O’Neill’s famous adage, “All politics is local,” was an effective principle in congressional elections.“Old-timers like me remember the 40-year span during which Democrats maintained control of the House through a coalition of liberals, moderates and even a few conservatives,” Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, recalled in an email. “They did so by tolerating defections if that was the price of re-election: ‘Vote your district first’.” Liberals still “have to be reminded that there are simply not enough liberals out there to form a majority,” Jacobson added.The problem now is that the politics of congressional elections are no longer local. In the years since O’Neill retired as speaker in 1987, American politics have become nationalized.If a conservative or moderate Democrat is running in a Republican-leaning district, he or she must persuade a segment of the electorate to split their tickets, to vote Republican for president, for example, and vote Democrat for the House.The reality is that split ticket voting is steadily disappearing as more and more voters cast uniformly partisan ballots.The accompanying chart, a version of which appeared in a paper by Alan Abramowitz and Steven Webster, political scientists at Emory and Washington University in St. Louis, “Negative Partisanship: Why Americans Dislike Parties But Behave Like Rabid Partisans,” demonstrates this trend.It shows that the percentage of voters splitting their tickets has fallen from 41.3 percent in 1980 to just over 14.3 percent in 2016.Percentage who voted straight ticket vs. split in presidential election years.100% OF VOTERS86%85%Straightticket806059%41%40Splitticket2015%14%’52’60’68’76’84’92’00’08’16100% OF VOTERS86%85%Straight ticket806059%41%40Split ticket2015%14%’52’60’68’76’84’92’00’08’16By The New York Times | Source: Steven W. Webster, Washington University in St. LouisThe result is that the number of Democrats and Republicans representing districts that lean to the opposite party has fallen from 132 in 1974 to fewer than 23 in 2018, as the second chart shows. (A version of this chart originally illustrated in a paper by Gary Jacobson, “Donald Trump and the 2018 Midterm Elections.”)Number of House candidates who won in districts that lean toward the opposite party. Data for 1962 and 1966 not available.120HOUSE SEATS90No Republicans won in Democratic-leaning districts in the last election.60Democrats30Republicans'52'60'70'80'90'00'10'18120HOUSE SEATS90No Republicans won in Democratic-leaning districts in the last election.60Democrats30Republicans'52'60'70'80'90'00'10'18By The New York Times | Source: Gary C. Jacobson, University of California, San DiegoThe near elimination of cross-party districts has, in turn, been particularly harmful to Democrats, who held roughly 114 of these districts in 1974, but only 23 in 2018.More specifically, these trends point to the consistent re-election difficulties faced by both Democrats and Republicans who are swept into office during wave elections like 1994, 2010 and 2014 (Republican) and 2006 and 2018 (Democratic). Their prospects are governed by the accounting principle “last in, first out.”All of which leads to the very real problem facing the House Democratic Majority. Tom Mann puts it this way:The nationalization of politics, the rise of intense negative partisanship, and the demise of split-ticket voting mean that the electoral fate of Democrats representing marginal districts now depends much more on the party brand than the candidate brand.E. J. Dionne, Jr., my longtime colleague at The Washington Post, wrote earlier this week that House Democrats will eventually resolve the problem of Republican motions to recommitby working out a better disciplined system of granting a limited number of “free passes" on especially tough votes while preventing wholesale defections.In Mann’s view, efforts by moderate Democrats to create an identity separate from their party by voting against their leadership will likely prove futile, because “Republicans will always attack them as liberals however they vote on these gotcha procedural motions.” In that light, maintaining party cohesion becomes more important:The keys to holding and increasing their 2018 gains in 2020 lies in the relative standing and unity of their party relative to Trump and his Republican enablers and the nomination of a presidential candidate who can keep the enthusiasm of the resistance alive and not scare away weak partisans and independents with outlandish policy proposals.Frances Lee raised another problem for moderate Democrats going into the 2020 elections:The resurgent far left of the party has received media attention out of proportion to its share of the party. The reason Democrats have a majority in the 116th Congress is that they carried so many suburban seats. These suburban members are not going to be blazing the trail for social democracy! But they get very little national media attention compared to the more ideologically strident members.David Hopkins, a political scientist at Boston College, shares Lee’s view:We’re also in a moment when a fair amount of news coverage is suggesting to the American public that the Democratic Party is in the midst of a socialist revolution that is pulling it sharply to the ideological left. The truth is that most newly-elected Democrats in Congress resemble Mikie Sherrill and Abigail Spanberger much more than they do Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez or Rashida Tlaib, but that isn’t the message that reporters and commentators are currently transmitting to their readers and viewers.Both Sherrill and Spanberger are moderates.A report by the centrist Democratic think tank Third Way demonstrates the crucial role moderate Democrats played in the 2018 takeover of the House.Third Way examined the Democratic victors in seats that had previously been held by Republicans — the victories that gave Democrats the majority — and found that none of them were part of or endorsed by the progressive mobilization led by the Justice Democrats, Brand New Congress and Our Revolution. In contrast, 33 of the House candidates endorsed by the moderate New Dem PAC won in districts that had been represented by Republicans.The Third Way report, in combination with the comments from Mann, Lee and Hopkins, suggests that House Democratic strategists — and Democrats generally — should find ways to counter the voices on the party’s left. Such an effort, however, could easily result in the alienation of the progressive wing that has brought grass roots energy to the fore, energy that would be critical to a 2020 Democratic presidential victory, as well as to House or Senate victories in battleground states across the county.The reality is that the Democratic Party is a diverse entity, racially, ethnically and ideologically. It is burdened — some would say blessed — with the problems of varied, often conflicting, interests. The struggle to come to terms with these tensions is constant and inescapable. Even shared hostility to President Trump and his Republican Party will not paper over the conflicts.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily Cochrane and Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — A dozen Republicans joined Senate Democrats on Thursday to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the southwestern border, arguing that the president had exceeded his powers in trying to build a border wall over Congress’s objections.The 59-to-41 vote on a measure already approved by the House set up the first veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency. It was not a big enough margin to override his promised veto, but Congress has now voted for the first time to block a presidential emergency declaration — and on one of the core promises that animated Mr. Trump’s political rise.“Never before has a president asked for funding, Congress has not provided it, and the president then has used the National Emergencies Act of 1976 to spend the money anyway,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee. “Our nation’s founders gave to Congress the power to approve all spending so that the president would not have too much power. This check on the executive is a crucial source of our freedom.”It was the latest sign that the cautious Republican majority in the Senate, spurred on by a far bolder Democrat-controlled House, was beginning to reassert its authority with a president who had gone virtually unchecked during his first two years in office.Mr. Trump had sought to frame the vote publicly as not only a declaration of support for his border security policies but as a sign of personal loyalty.“It’s pure and simple: It’s a vote for border security; it’s a vote for no crime,” Mr. Trump told reporters before the vote, which he had declared Thursday morning on Twitter to be “a vote for Nancy Pelosi, Crime, and the Open Border Democrats!”But he could not overcome concerns among Republican senators about the legality of redirecting $3.6 billion from military construction projects toward the border wall, even after Congress explicitly rejected the funding request.“I believe the use of emergency powers in this circumstance violates the Constitution,” said Senator Jerry Moran, Republican of Kansas, in a statement written on lined paper. “This continues our country down the path of all powerful executive — something those who wrote the Constitution were fearful of.”Ultimately, nearly a quarter of Senate Republicans joined Senate Democrats in supporting the House-passed resolution of disapproval: Roy Blunt of Missouri, Susan Collins of Maine, Mike Lee of Utah, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Rob Portman of Ohio, Mitt Romney of Utah, Marco Rubio of Florida, Patrick J. Toomey of Pennsylvania, Rand Paul of Kentucky, Roger Wicker of Mississippi, Mr. Alexander and Mr. Moran.The president tweeted that he was looking “forward to VETOING the just passed Democrat inspired Resolution which would OPEN BORDERS while increasing Crime, Drugs, and Trafficking in our Country.”Twelve Republicans joined Democrats to block Trump’s emergency declaration.The House vote to override the upcoming veto is expected on March 26, according to a Democratic leadership aide, though it is unlikely that the chamber can muster the two-thirds vote majority. And Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, promised that would not be the end to it; Democrats will keep forcing repeat votes on the resolution.“I believe the law allows us to bring it up every six months,” he said, “and certainly we would intend to do that.”Regardless, the action in both chambers could bolster a number of lawsuits contesting the emergency declaration as a flagrant violation of the Constitution’s separation of powers.The number of Republican defections underscored the turmoil within the Republican Conference, where senators were torn between supporting Mr. Trump’s vision for border security and asserting Congress’s constitutional prerogative to dictate federal spending.Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina and one of the first to publicly say he would support the resolution, announced he had changed his mind just minutes before the vote — to the disbelief of his colleagues, including Ms. Collins. He had been warned in recent days by North Carolina conservatives that he could face a primary challenger next year for his stand. He said conversations with the White House and his colleagues contributed to his changed vote.Other Republican senators agonized over their votes, as well. Three — Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Ted Cruz of Texas — interrupted Mr. Trump’s dinner with his wife, Melania, on Wednesday night at the White House to share their concerns about the constitutional precedent that Mr. Trump had established.Mr. Cruz initiated the meeting, hoping to sell the president on his own rewrite of the emergency declaration law that would restrict funding from military sources, according to a senior Republican aide with direct knowledge of the proposal. Mr. Trump summoned a lawyer from the White House Counsel’s Office, who said the plan would strip the president of powers he currently possesses. “No way,” an annoyed Mr. Trump told the trio, according to a person with knowledge of the exchange.In the end, all three men sided with Mr. Trump and voted against the resolution.Mr. Graham, along with other lawmakers supportive of the declaration, argued that the president’s declaration was within the jurisdiction of the National Emergencies Act, and was needed to address what the president and his supporters deem to be a crisis at the southwestern border.“I take Congress’s prerogative over appropriations extremely seriously,” said Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader. “But,” he added, “the Senate should not be in the business of misusing specific resolutions to express opinions on more general matters.”The outcome of the vote was as much a reflection of Mr. McConnell’s ambivalence as Mr. Trump’s insistence.The majority leader had strongly advised Mr. Trump against declaring the emergency declaration, and he made a point of not pressuring senators to support the president, urging them to vote according to their consciences and political interests, according to seven Republican aides and lawmakers.At a party lunch in early March, Mr. McConnell canvassed his conference and found virtually no support for the president’s position, according to a person in attendance.The message was not lost on Mr. Trump, who told a visitor to Mar-a-Lago — the president’s club in Palm Beach, Fla. — last weekend that he felt let down by lackluster effort by Republican leaders.In a volley of phone calls with Senate Republicans over the past few weeks, the president warned of the electoral consequences of defying him and dismissed concerns about the constitutional precedent of his order.During a meeting on trade on Wednesday afternoon at the White House, Mr. Trump tried to cajole a handful of members to vote his way, emphasizing that a vote “against border security” would be noticed by the party’s base, according to two people who attended.When Mr. Paul, a libertarian who frequently bucks his party, announced his support for the resolution, the president flew into a rage, according to two people with knowledge of the situation, and called Mr. Paul to demand that he reverse himself. The senator refused.But Mr. Trump also undermined his own efforts at persuasion. He personally sunk attempts by Republican senators this week to limit the number of defections to a handful. Mr. Lee proposed an alternative measure — a bill that would restrict future uses of emergency declarations, but leave Mr. Trump’s order in place — and discussed it in a meeting with other undecided senators as well as Vice President Mike Pence.But the next day, Mr. Trump called Mr. Lee in the middle of a Republican policy lunch to tell him that he would not support the measure. Mr. Lee, who announced the president’s verdict to gasps from his colleagues, then declared his support for the resolution of disapproval.On Thursday, before the vote, the president appeared to reverse himself when he said he would support efforts to update the 1976 law “at a later date.”But it was not enough to overcome opposition from constitutional conservatives, appropriators like Mr. Blunt and Mr. Wicker and hawks who questioned his diversion of funding allocated to the military.As the Senate was delivering its rebuke, senior military commanders announced they would begin to scale back about 40 percent of the 6,000 troops deployed at the southwestern border at Mr. Trump’s request.“It’s a security challenge — not a military threat,” said Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the Joint Chiefs chairman, when asked Thursday morning during a Senate Armed Services hearing to assess the threat posed by an influx of migrants from the Mexican side of the border.Thomas Gibbons-Neff contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Haberman and Robert PearWASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s surprise decision to press for a court-ordered demolition of the Affordable Care Act came after a heated meeting in the Oval Office on Monday, where the president’s acting chief of staff and others convinced him that he could do through the courts what he could not do through Congress: repeal his predecessor’s signature achievement.Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff and former South Carolina congressman, had spent years in the House saying that the health law should be repealed, and his handpicked head of the Domestic Policy Council, Joe Grogan, supported the idea of joining a Republican attorneys general lawsuit to invalidate the entire Affordable Care Act.That suit, and the Justice Department, initially pressed to nullify only the part of the law that forces insurance companies to cover people with pre-existing medical conditions as well as a suite of health benefits deemed “essential,” such as pregnancy and maternal health, mental health and prescription drugs.But a district judge in Texas ruled that the entire law was rendered unconstitutional when President Trump’s tax law brought the tax penalty for not having health insurance to zero, and the administration faced a choice: stick with its more limited intervention or back the judge’s decision.Mr. Trump has declared that he has kept his promises, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Grogan argued, and as a candidate he campaigned on repealing the health law. His base of voters would love it. Besides, they argued, Democrats have been campaigning successfully on health care, and Republicans should try to claim the issue for themselves. This could force the matter.Among those with concerns was Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel, who shared that the new attorney general, William P. Barr, opposed such a move. Vice President Mike Pence was worried about the political ramifications of moving ahead without a strategy or a plan to handle the millions who could be left suddenly uninsured if the suit succeeded.The health and human services secretary, Alex M. Azar II, was on speakerphone during the meeting and also voiced concern about the move, people familiar with the call said. And Marc Short, Mr. Pence’s chief of staff, suggested that it was risky for Mr. Trump’s administration to be at odds with so many Republican attorneys general on such a key issue.But Mr. Trump had been sold, and on Monday night, the Justice Department issued a letter saying it supported the Texas judge’s decision.The blowback has been severe. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, who is close with Mr. Trump, had privately warned the president not to interrupt the “victory lap” he should be taking after the delivery of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Mueller, according to a letter by Mr. Barr, found no criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.The reaction was even more intense in the Senate. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, had planned to use the week to publicize his floor vote to force Democrats to take a stand on progressives’ Green New Deal — an important party-building exercise for Republicans after Mr. Trump’s decision to declare an emergency at the border sparked an insurrection in their ranks this month.Members of Mr. McConnell’s leadership team were incensed at Mr. Mulvaney and allies like the acting White House budget director, Russell Vought, for rekindling a fight that served Democrats so well in 2018 and could harm vulnerable incumbents in 2020, according to two senior aides with direct knowledge of the situation. The maneuver may make it much less likely that Mr. Vought, the chief of staff’s handpicked successor to head the Office of Management and Budget, will be confirmed by the Senate, the aides said.And Democrats pressed their advantage.“The equivalent of a nuclear bomb fell on our country when the president said what he said this week,” Representative Anna G. Eshoo, Democrat of California, said Wednesday as her House subcommittee began pushing through health care legislation. “This is deadly serious.”But Mr. Trump doubled down while talking to reporters in the Oval Office. He predicted that the Texas decision would be upheld by the appeals court, then go to the Supreme Court.“If the Supreme Court rules that Obamacare is out, we’ll have a plan that is far better than Obamacare,” he said.[What happens if Obamacare is struck down? Read more.]White House press aides did not immediately respond to a request for comment. And one official, who asked for anonymity to speak about the meetings, insisted that Mr. Mulvaney had simply been convening people with various views so that the president could make his own decision. But Mr. Mulvaney was described as leading the charge to back the suit, in an account of the two meetings that was described by a half-dozen people with knowledge of what took place.Politico first reported that Mr. Mulvaney pushed Mr. Trump to get involved in the suit.Mr. Barr did not favor the move but did not object to the White House decision once it had been made, people familiar with what took place said. And one White House official said the administration faced a deadline imposed by the court if it wanted to support the suit.But the decision to thrust Mr. Trump’s administration so directly into the lawsuit caught several people inside the White House by surprise, and took the focus off what was arguably the best weekend of the Trump presidency.Mr. Trump did not seem to care about shifting the political focus toward an issue that Democrats far preferred to the aftermath of the Mueller report. He charged ahead at a Senate Republican luncheon, telling reporters as he went in, “Let me just tell you exactly what my message is: The Republican Party will soon be known as the party of health care. You watch.”But Republicans in Congress have no obvious road forward on legislation to replace the Affordable Care Act that could pass the Democrat-controlled House. And House leaders have little political incentive to bow to Republican wishes on health care, an issue that they believe delivered their House majority and that they are eager to campaign on in 2020.The Trump administration has tried to minimize and contain the Affordable Care Act over time. The president has been in favor of previous efforts to end the law. And Mr. Mulvaney has over time built up his internal political capital, and grown his team of loyalists.Mr. Mulvaney is the first ideological purist who has served as Mr. Trump’s chief of staff. His critics inside the West Wing say he has tilted the voices Mr. Trump hears in favor of those who will back his own views.As Republicans pointed fingers, House Democrats began moving legislation on Wednesday to ensure safeguards for people with pre-existing conditions and to hold down the costs of health insurance and prescription drugs. Ms. Eshoo, the chairwoman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, said the bills were needed to counter what she described as “a monstrous attack” on the health law by the Trump administration.Several Republicans on the panel distanced themselves from the administration’s position.“I’m not with the president on eliminating pre-existing conditions,” said Representative John Shimkus, Republican of Illinois. Republicans, he said, believe in protecting people with pre-existing conditions.The subcommittee approved a bill that would provide $100 million a year for insurance counselors known as navigators who help consumers enroll in health insurance plans under the Affordable Care Act.The Trump administration “has slashed, practically eliminated, funding for the navigators,” said Representative Kathy Castor, Democrat of Florida.Several Republicans said insurance agents and brokers were enrolling more people at a lower cost than the navigators, so the additional money was not needed.The panel also approved bills to outlaw two practices that have been used by brand-name drug companies to stifle competition and delay the sale of lower-cost generic medications.One measure would prohibit makers of brand-name drugs from paying off generic companies to delay sale of the less expensive products. Banning such “pay for delay” arrangements could save consumers billions of dollars over a decade, economists say.Another bill approved by the House panel would require brand-name drug companies to provide samples of their products to generic drug makers.Generic drug developers need samples of brand-name drugs to show that a generic copy is equivalent to the original. Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, has called on the industry to “end the shenanigans” that prevent consumers from getting access to low-cost generic drugs.The House panel also approved on a party-line vote a bill to provide federal money to states to help pay the largest health insurance claims. Democrats said such “reinsurance” programs would lower premiums, as shown by the experience of Minnesota, Alaska, Maryland and several other states. Republicans said they worried that federal funds would go to health plans that covered abortion.Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.OpinionNicholas BagleyAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Friday began her push to overturn President Trump’s emergency declaration, scheduling a House vote for Tuesday on legislation that would end the declaration, a timeline meant to force congressional Republicans to choose quickly between their president and the prerogatives of their branch of government.With little doubt that Ms. Pelosi can muster the House votes to block the declaration, her goal is to raise pressure on Republicans to defend the power granted to Congress by the Constitution to control federal spending. Democrats will need to pick up a handful of Senate Republicans to pass the resolution of disapproval, which is a possibility.That would force Mr. Trump to issue the first veto of his presidency, an action he said on Friday was “100 percent” certain. From there, supporters would need the votes of two-thirds of Congress to override that veto, a much taller order.But the resolution will force Republicans in both chambers to make a stark choice, and defections are all but definite. Democrats are appealing to conservatives to join them in defending what Ms. Pelosi called Congress’s “exclusive power of the purse.”“This issue transcends partisan politics,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters in a phone call on Friday, adding, “It’s about patriotism.”Mr. Trump, with his declaration, hopes to divert $3.6 billion from military construction projects to build his promised wall along the southwestern border, effectively going around Congress to secure money that lawmakers have repeatedly refused to give him. Multiple lawsuits have already been filed to have the maneuver declared unconstitutional, but the simplest way to block it is for Congress to overturn the declaration through mechanisms set up by the National Emergencies Act of 1976.“We prepared for the worst, because the president right now is engaged in the worst,” said Ms. Pelosi, speaking from Laredo, Tex., where she said she planned to tour the southwestern border with other lawmakers. She declined to say if the House would formally support any legal action in court, but said that lawmakers were still considering additional legal steps.“The president’s act is lawless — it does violence to our Constitution and therefore our democracy,” Ms. Pelosi said.Republican leaders promised to muster enough votes in the House to sustain Mr. Trump’s veto.“Declaring a national emergency is a sobering act, which is why Congress enacted a statute governing when and how the president can take this action,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the ranking Republican on the House Judiciary Committee. “House Democrats’ angst over Congress’s power of the purse is unwarranted, especially since the commander in chief’s authority to redirect military funds for a national emergency is affirmed in a law passed by their own branch.”But Republicans will not stop the measure on Tuesday. More than 220 Democrats and one Republican — Representative Justin Amash of Michigan — have signed on to the resolution of disapproval, which Congress can use to end the emergency status under the National Emergencies Act if the threat has dissolved or if there is concern that the president has used his powers irresponsibly. That is already more than enough to clear the House.Ms. Pelosi noted that extending an offer to Republicans to join Democrats in sponsoring the resolution was a courtesy.“What’s really important is how they will vote when it comes to the floor,” she said. “We’ll see where they come down on that.”Representative Joaquin Castro, Democrat of Texas and the author of the resolution, said that he planned to spend the weekend calling his colleagues and rallying support for the measure. He said he and his staff had been working on the one-page measure for weeks in anticipation of a declaration.“This is an historic power grab and it will require historic unity by members of Congress,” he said on Friday, calling the declaration a “parasitic movement” from the president.“If the Congress rolls over on this, the president is likely to do it again,” he added.By law, the Senate will have to take up the measure within 18 days of its passage in the House, where a floor vote is expected within 18 days after a committee vote. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, has in the past been a fierce defender of Senate prerogative, but he backed Mr. Trump’s declaration this month to secure passage of a major spending bill that funds the government through the fiscal year.Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said in a statement on Thursday that identical companion legislation would soon be introduced in the Senate. The Senate could also move to amend the resolution that is expected to pass through the House.House Republicans argue that legal authority given to the president under the act allows for the declaration, and that there should be support for prioritizing border security.But for several Republicans, there is concern about the murky circumstances for declaring a national emergency and the precedent that Mr. Trump’s declaration will set for future administrations.Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine and one of the senators likely to rebuff the president, said this week that she would support a resolution as long as it did not contain additional items. Other Senate Republicans have voiced discomfort with the president’s decision but have yet to publicly say whether they will support the resolution of disapproval.The slim Republican majority offers hope for Democrats that four Republicans will join them in passing the resolution through the Senate. The challenging 2020 re-election campaigns will squeeze some Senate Republicans between the pro-wall demands of Mr. Trump’s base and more moderate voters who oppose the wall or Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration.Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, outlined situations last week that “a left-wing president would undoubtedly utilize to implement their radical policy agenda while bypassing the authority of Congress” — a “rabbit hole” that he said Mr. Trump’s move had made possible.Others stood by the president“I know some Republicans are concerned about the precedent it will set, but here’s what I’m concerned about: a broken border,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, speaking on Fox News. “I’m worried about what is going to happen now, not what some Democrat may do later.”Both Democratic leaders said Mr. Trump’s declaration violated one of the clearest constitutional mandates.“If the president’s emergency declaration prevails, it will fundamentally change the balance of powers in a way our country’s founders never envisioned,” Mr. Schumer said Thursday. “That should be a serious wake-up call to senators in both parties who believe in the constitutional responsibility of Congress to limit an overreaching executive.”Members of the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on Thursday in part to examine Mr. Trump’s use of powers under the National Emergencies Act. Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the committee chairman, has  requested that Pat A. Cipollone, the White House counsel, and other Justice Department officials appear as witnesses.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted Thursday to extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks for gun purchasers flagged by the national instant check system, the second major gun control bill to clear the chamber this week after two decades of inaction.Democratic leaders also succeeded in quelling a small rebellion among freshman Democrats from Republican-leaning districts, persuading them to oppose a politically freighted Republican procedural motion after they backed a similar motion on Wednesday.The 228-to-198 vote aims to extend the background check review period for gun purchasers to 10 days. Currently, the F.B.I. must perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase in three business days. If it cannot complete the review within that time, a buyer may return to the dealer on the fourth day to purchase a firearm.That provision in current law allowed Dylann S. Roof to purchase a handgun and kill nine people at a historic black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, even though he should have been denied his firearm.“Let’s give the F.B.I., the authorities, enough time to do their job and save lives,” Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip and the bill’s sponsor, implored his colleagues from the House floor.Both gun control bills that cleared the House this week face dim prospects in the Senate, but they were cause for celebration for the gun-control activists that mobilized last year after a series of horrific mass shootings.While Thursday’s bill was expected to easily clear the Democrat-controlled chamber, a dose of drama was added after House Republicans staged a successful ambush during the vote on the first gun control measure on Wednesday.In an attempt to divide Democrats and draw out vulnerable swing-district members, Republicans offered a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats broke party lines to support the measure, catching Democratic leadership caught off guard.House Republicans tried a repeat ambush on Thursday, surprising Democrats with a last-minute motion to exempt victims of domestic abuse from the new 10-day waiting period. This time, following strict marching orders from Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the motion failed, with only two Democrats, Representatives Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey and Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, voting for the measure.“Vote no, just vote no, because the fact is a vote yes is to give leverage to the other side and surrender leverage on the floor of the House,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters on Thursday.At a meeting of House Democrats before the vote, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York implored moderates to vote against the Republican-led motions and, in an implicit threat, added that she would make it clear to liberal activists which members supported the Republican measures, according to officials in the room.But some moderate freshmen, including Representative Xochitl Torres Small of New Mexico, stood up and explained how difficult the votes have been for them.House Republicans have sought to weaponize the procedural motion, using politically fraught measures to test the new Democrats’ resolve. The measures rarely hold the force of law, but a no vote even on a procedural motion could show up in a 30-second attack ad next year. Republicans succeeded in attaching a resolution condemning anti-Semitism and the boycott-Israel movement to a bill designed to halt American aid to Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen after even Democratic leaders gave up on opposing it.“All they want to do is feed red meat to their base,” Representative Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas, said of House Republicans. “I’m hoping that colleagues of mine will see it that way and understand that these procedural motions — even the best-worded procedural motion — has not had the chance to go through the process” of committee consideration.Amid concern that some Democrats will continue to break away on tough votes, some House leaders are weighing revising the rules to require Republicans to give them more notice on the content of procedural motions.Representative Joe Cunningham, Democrat of South Carolina, who has voted for Republican-backed motions, played down their importance on Thursday.“These little motions and minor bills should not take attention away from the fact that progress is being made to keep people safe,” said Mr. Cunningham, one of the co-sponsors of Mr. Clyburn’s gun control bill.Ms. Pelosi signaled that she was not keen to change the rules, but added that it could be a topic for consideration by a select committee studying potential changes to “modernize” the House.“I am a big believer in respecting the whole House and the rights of the minority to have their say,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters.The “Charleston loophole” bill did show some of the old divisions that have plagued Democrats in the past over gun control. Seven Democrats voted no, including freshmen Anthony Brindisi of New York, Jared Golden of Maine, Kendra Horn of Oklahoma, Ben McAdams of Utah and Ms. Torres Small of New Mexico, all of whom won Republican districts in November.Only three Republicans voted yes.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byIt happens through election fraud and voter suppression. And Republicans are the culprits.By Carol AndersonDr. Anderson is the author of “One Person, No Vote: How Voter Suppression Is Destroying Our Democracy.”On Tuesday, the Justice Department opened an investigation into alleged election fraud in North Carolina’s Ninth Congressional District. Neither the details of the crime nor the culprits, however, match the scenario that has led to an array of Voter ID laws, voter roll purges and similar efforts “to protect the integrity of the ballot box.” The Republicans would have the nation believe that the threat to our democracy is from voter fraud, where someone impersonates someone else to cast an illegal ballot or multiple ballots to “steal elections.” But the chance of voter fraud occurring is, at best, 0.0000044 percent. The real theft of American democracy happens through election fraud and voter suppression. And Republicans are the thieves.What happened in North Carolina during the 2018 midterms was a textbook case of election fraud. That’s when a candidate’s campaign sets out to manipulate vote tallies to steal an election. In the Ninth Congressional District, the Republican candidate, Mark Harris, hired Leslie McCrae Dowless, an election operative with a “shady” reputation, to ensure that there would be enough votes to send Mr. Harris to Capitol Hill. Even though Mr. Harris’s son, an assistant United States attorney, repeatedly warned him against this hire. When the ballots were tallied, Mr. Harris was ahead by 905 votes. His total included 61 percent of the absentee ballots in Bladen County, though only 19 percent there were cast by Republicans. Something was also awry in Robeson County, where 40 percent of African-Americans’ absentee ballots and 60 percent of Native Americans’ absentee ballots were never officially turned in. Mr. Dowless, elections officials concluded, had illegally gathered, altered and discarded more than 1,000 absentee ballots in Bladen and Robeson Counties. The election’s results were so bizarre that the state elections board refused to certify the vote. Mr. Dowless and four other people are now under indictment. Faced with this brazen attempt to steal a congressional seat, most of the national Republican leadership simply went silent.The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, who has repeatedly articulated his contempt for voting rights, laid the blame for the election fraud debacle on Democrats and their refusal to back voter ID laws. This was catnip for the Republican base, which has been convinced that voter fraud happens regularly. And Mr. McConnell managed to swap the reality of election fraud for the fiction of voter fraud to mask that it was the Republican who hired the disreputable campaign operative. Mr. McConnell’s legerdemain also hid the fact that voter ID would have had no effect whatsoever on Mr. Dowless’s scheme because government-issued photo IDs are not required for absentee voting in North Carolina.Republicans in North Carolina’s state legislature, instead of addressing the obvious weaknesses in the absentee ballot procedure, or heeding a past court warning about the rampant racial discrimination in its voting laws, doubled down and continued to deploy the lie of voter fraud to craft yet another piece of voter ID legislation. Although it was stopped by a court, the targets of the new law, as before, were African-Americans, whose voter turnout rate had surpassed that of whites in 2012 but dropped significantly after the state implemented voter suppression legislation in 2013. The result of the statehouse’s new efforts, as an editorial in The Charlotte News & Observer noted, would most likely have resulted “in hundreds of thousands of disenfranchised voters.”The attempt to eviscerate American citizens’ voting rights was not just confined to North Carolina, however. In Texas, Republicans once again invoked “voter fraud” to mask their effort to steal democracy.In January, the interim secretary of state, David Whitley, issued a press release stating that his office had uncovered 95,000 noncitizens on the voter rolls and that it appeared 58,000 of them had voted at some point in the state’s elections.This was the voter fraud beast that the Republicans had warned about. “We knew it was happening and now we have proof,” asserted James Dickey, the chairman of the Texas Republican Party. “Our voter rolls must be purged to protect our elections.” Attorney General Ken Paxton immediately announced that his office “stands ready to investigate and prosecute crimes against the democratic process when needed.” Not to be outdone, President Trump used the bully pulpit of his Twitter account to point to Texas as proof that immigrants were a threat to American democracy. “These numbers are just the tip of the iceberg,” he assured. “All over the country, especially in California, voter fraud is rampant. Must be stopped.” Then he added that special touch for his followers: “Strong voter ID!” Mr. Whitley advised county officials to identify the illegal voters and purge their names immediately. Mr. Paxton would take care of the rest.Within days, however, election officials in Harris County, which includes Houston, revealed that that 95,000 number was as solid as papier mâché. Mr. Whitley had used a driver’s license database that doesn’t track when or if an immigrant becomes a citizen during the six-year window when a license is issued and expires. Since more than one million Texans had become naturalized citizens during the time frame of the list, this was not insignificant. The Harris County election officials found in their initial review that about 60 percent of the names flagged were of naturalized citizens. In short, Republicans in Texas were poised to purge thousands of American citizens’ names from the voting rolls simply because they had once been immigrants.Even as Mr. Whitley’s efforts drew fire from numerous groups, State Senator Paul Bettencourt, a Republican, barreled ahead with a bill to flat out steal voting rights from naturalized citizens. The bill would remove suspected non-citizens from the voter rolls and jail county election officials who balked at carrying out this voting-while-brown law.The right to vote, and therefore American democracy, is once again under attack. The violence is quieter than before. But it is equally lethal. The only thing that will save us is a restored Voting Rights Act.Carol Anderson is a professor of African American Studies at Emory University and the author of “White Rage: The Unspoken Truth of Our Racial Divide.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byRepublicans just won’t stop trying to take away health care.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistIt’s already clear how the 2020 election campaign will be waged. Republicans will claim, falsely, that Democrats want to take away your hamburgers. Democrats will assert, truthfully, that Republicans want to take away your health care.I guess we’ll see which argument wins.On Monday, the Trump administration adopted a new position on a lawsuit over the Affordable Care Act, telling a federal appeals court that it now supported the complete elimination of the law, which has made health insurance available to many Americans who wouldn’t have it otherwise.We have a very good idea what would happen if this lawsuit were to succeed. Around 20 million Americans would lose health coverage. While Donald Trump reportedly thinks that attacking the A.C.A. will please his base, the greatest devastation would actually come in states that strongly supported Trump in 2016, believing his promises that he would defend health care. In West Virginia, for example, 160,000 people — 11 percent of nonelderly adults — would see their health insurance snatched away.[For an even deeper look at what’s on Paul Krugman’s mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]Trump and his defenders are claiming that this wouldn’t happen, that they’ll unveil a great health care plan to replace Obamacare. But Republicans have been saying that for nine years, ever since Obamacare was enacted, and have never delivered. They don’t have a plan, and they never will.So Republicans want to take away your health care. Democrats, on the other hand, want to make it better and cheaper — not just in the long run, with some kind of radical health reform, but right away.The day after the Trump attack on Obamacare, House Democrats released a plan to enhance the A.C.A., mainly by expanding the subsidies that limit the share of income families have to spend on insurance premiums. Lower-income families would end up paying less; middle-class families whose income is now just a bit too high to qualify for subsidies, yet still find the cost of insurance hard to bear, would be brought into the system and see major gains.We don’t yet have estimates of how many Americans would gain coverage under this plan, but it would be a lot of people. The House plan would bring national benefit levels roughly up to levels in Massachusetts, which has had a more generous A.C.A.-type plan in effect since 2006 — and where the percentage of nonelderly adults without insurance is a third of the national average. Achieving Massachusetts-type results nationally would mean around 15 million more people gaining coverage — probably unrealistic, but an indication of how big a deal this could be.All of this would cost money, probably several hundred billion dollars over the next decade. What should Democrats do if Republicans ask how they plan to pay for it?The answer is, laugh in their faces. The G.O.P. recently rammed through a tax cut, disproportionately benefiting the wealthy, that will probably cost $2 trillion over the next decade — with no offsetting savings. Enhanced health care could easily be paid for by rescinding just part of this big giveaway. If Republicans won’t do that, it’s not Democrats’ problem.And if this proposal’s advocates are willing to be relaxed about funding, as they should be, the plan is basically ready to go. If Democrats take the Senate and the White House next year, they could enact the plan, easing the burdens of millions of Americans, almost immediately.What about progressive hopes for a more fundamental health care overhaul? Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez got it exactly right: While still calling for hearings on “Medicare for all,” she declared herself “happy to support any provision that strengthens the A.C.A. and plugs some of the gaps that we’re seeing.” (So far, Bernie Sanders has refused to support the plan. Let’s hope he walks that back.)So Democrats have a realistic plan to expand health care, while Republicans are still pursuing their jihad against Obamacare. The question is why.We have, after all, gone well beyond the point where trying to kill the A.C.A. was a smart if cynical political strategy. The act has become increasingly popular since Trump took office. Health care was central to the 2018 midterms, and 75 percent of voters who considered it the most important issue voted Democratic.So why can’t the G.O.P. just cut its losses and accept that Obamacare has become part of our social fabric? After all, there was a time when people like Ronald Reagan insisted that Medicare would destroy American freedom; these days Republicans pose as defenders of the program (even if they’re still trying to undermine and privatize it on the sly).Well, political scientists have some interesting thoughts about the reasons the G.O.P. won’t just throw in the towel on the A.C.A. But details aside, modern Republicans just hate the idea of using public policy to help Americans get the health care they need, even when people’s inability to get insurance is a result of pre-existing medical conditions over which they have no control.If this seems remarkably cruel, that’s because it is — and there’s no sign that this attitude will change. In today’s G.O.P., cruelty toward the most vulnerable is a pre-existing condition.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael WinesThe Supreme Court heard arguments on Tuesday over whether congressional district maps in Maryland and North Carolina were unconstitutional partisan gerrymanders — favoring Democrats in Maryland and Republicans in North Carolina.The arguments reprised parts of a hearing last year on the same Maryland case in which the court often seemed divided on partisan lines over key issues. In the Tuesday session, the court’s newest member, Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, seemed open to crucial arguments from both sides, suggesting to some that he could prove a swing vote on a closely divided issue. Most experts anticipate a ruling in late June.Here are answers to some common questions about rigged electoral maps and the Revolutionary patriot for whom they are (perhaps unfairly) named.The goal of gerrymandering is to draw political boundaries in ways that maximize a governing party’s advantage. Drafters accomplish it mainly through two practices that are commonly called packing and cracking.A packed district is drawn to include as many members of the opposition party as possible. That helps the governing party capture and hold surrounding districts where the opposition’s strength has been diluted.Cracking does the opposite: It splits up clusters of opposition voters among two or more districts, so they will be outnumbered by backers of the governing party in each district.An efficient gerrymandered map doles out just enough support to governing party candidates to let them win and hold seats safely, even in “wave” elections when their opponents do especially well. And it limits the opposition to a minimum number of packed districts that it wins overwhelmingly.Currently, rigged maps are most prevalent, and most tilted, in states under Republican control. That is in part because Republicans did exceptionally well in the 2010 elections, giving them far wider control of state legislatures, which oversaw the redistricting that followed the 2010 census. The national Republican Party had poured money and expertise into state legislative races with the specific aim of gaining control over redistricting; the Democratic Party had not.Many political scientists consider the House maps in Republican states like North Carolina, Michigan, Ohio and Texas to have the most pronounced partisan slants. (Pennsylvania was also on the list until its map was redrawn last year.) Among Democratic states, Maryland, Illinois and — among some observers — California are regarded as the most tilted. Illinois is especially notable for its “pizza slice” division of metropolitan Chicago, using generous helpings of urban Democrats to offset the heavily Republican suburbs in district after district.Perhaps the most notable recent example comes from the Wisconsin State Assembly, whose members are all elected every two years. Wisconsin is a political battleground that swings from Republican to Democratic and back again in statewide elections for governor, United States senator and other offices.After the Republican majority gerrymandered the Assembly in 2011, the party won a supermajority. Then in 2018, Republicans retained that supermajority, even as Democrats won every statewide office.A string of lawsuits dating back decades have argued that partisan gerrymanders violate the Constitution. The Supreme Court has struck down gerrymanders based on race, but never those based on party, largely because the justices could not agree on a legal standard that would let them distinguish illegally partisan maps from acceptable ones.The current challenges to the House maps in North Carolina and Maryland emphasize new legal arguments against gerrymandering, primarily that it punishes voters for choosing a minority party.Many people think the cases will be the court’s last opportunity for a generation to break the impasse over partisan maps.A ruling against the maps, even if sharply limited in scope, would signal to state legislators that extreme partisan gerrymandering will no longer be tolerated.But the court could throw up its hands instead, and say that gerrymandered maps are a political problem that the courts cannot solve — or kick the can down the legal road based on technical issues. Either of those choices would probably make the next round of redistricting in 2021 a partisan blood bath in states where one party controls the process.A decision by the Supreme Court not to outlaw partisan gerrymanders could hasten the efforts already underway to challenge them in state courts — some state constitutions offer more favorable legal grounds than the national Constitution does. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court invalidated the state’s Republican-drawn congressional map last year based solely on the state constitution, and Democrats went on to score major gains in the 2018 House elections in the state.Such a decision would probably also give new momentum to citizen-led campaigns to take map-drawing away from state politicians and give it to independent redistricting commissions. Ballot initiatives in Ohio, Michigan, Missouri, Colorado and Utah overhauled the redistricting process last year, and advocacy groups are preparing similar campaigns in Virginia and other states.Some historians trace partisan mapmaking to Patrick Henry, who is said to have drawn a Virginia House district in the first congressional election, in 1789, to ensure the defeat of his rival, James Madison (other historians take issue with that claim). But the practice takes its name from Elbridge Gerry, Madison’s vice president.When he was governor of Massachusetts in 1812, Mr. Gerry signed a bill allowing his party to draw State Senate districts that were meant to favor its candidates over the rival Federalists. One serpentine district looked to some like a salamander; a Boston editorial cartoonist drew it with a head and claws and labeled it the “gerry-mander.”Some footnotes to that history: The new maps did not wind up thwarting the Federalists. Mr. Gerry may have been unfairly tarred; there is no clear evidence that he supported the maps his party drew.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe Supreme Court could make history by erecting a constitutional barrier to electoral maps that put party over country.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.On Tuesday, the Supreme Court once again took up the issue of partisan gerrymandering, hearing two cases that could allow the justices to put an end to the practice of drawing legislative maps for no other reason than to give an electoral edge to the party doing the drawing. Or as Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has described it, “the drawing of legislative district lines to subordinate adherents of one political party and entrench a rival party in power.”Voting rights advocates fear that an emboldened conservative majority on the court may not be open to policing politically motivated gerrymandering, in turn barring federal judges from considering future lawsuits.One of the cases before the Supreme Court this week comes from North Carolina, where Republicans won barely 50 percent of the vote in the 2018 midterms but took nine of 13 congressional seats. (That count does not include the Ninth Congressional District, which remains contested as a result of rampant election fraud.) In a lengthy ruling addressing these disparities, which arose from a map drawn in 2016, a panel of federal judges in August said that the state’s Republican-controlled General Assembly violated the Constitution by drawing districts to give Republicans a partisan advantage. The other case is from Maryland, where a different panel of judges ruled that the Sixth Congressional District was unconstitutionally drawn because Democrats “specifically targeted voters … who were registered as Republicans and who had historically voted for Republican candidates.” The judges found that Republican voters’ rights were violated because the gerrymander effectively moved about 30 percent of them out of the district, which for nearly two decades had been represented by a Republican congressman, and replaced them with Democratic voters.In both cases —  Rucho v. Common Cause and Lamone v. Benisek — lawmakers were clear about their intentions and set out explicitly to one-up the other party.In deciding these disputes, the justices could send a clear and important message against the practice of legislators drawing district boundaries in a way that increases their party’s re-election chances — by moving voters for the other side in and out of districts and diminishing the value of their votes. The Supreme Court showed signs on Tuesday that it may be willing to do just that. Surprising many court-watchers, Justice Brett Kavanaugh acknowledged the challengers’ claims. “Extreme partisan gerrymandering is a real problem for our democracy,” he said. “I’m not going to dispute that.”In the face of politically motivated redistricting, citizens have sought solutions through state courts, ballot initiatives and Congress. For instance, H.R. 1, which the House approved this month, contains a provision requiring states to create independent redistricting commissions. Justice Neil Gorsuch on Tuesday pointed to some of this activity to suggest that the Supreme Court need not intervene in this area.Piggybacking on that theme, Justice Stephen Breyer echoed the age-old worry that judges aren’t equipped to handle dicey political disputes. “There is a great concern that unless you have a very clear standard,” he said, “you will turn many, many elections in the United States over to the judges.”But as Justice Elena Kagan wrote last year when the Supreme Court punted on the question of partisan gerrymandering, “the need for judicial review is at its most urgent in these cases,” because “politicians’ incentives conflict with voters’ interests, leaving citizens without any political remedy for their constitutional harms.” Could Justice Kagan persuade a majority of her colleagues to finally put an end to extreme gerrymandering? That will become clear before the end of June. If she does, it will be a welcome and long-overdue outcome.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House voted on Tuesday to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the Mexican border, with just 13 Republicans joining Democrats to try to block his effort to divert funding to a border wall without congressional approval.House Republican leaders kept defections low after feverishly working to assuage concerns among rank-and-file members about protecting congressional powers and about the precedent that Mr. Trump could be setting for Democratic presidents to use for their own purposes.“Is your oath of office to Donald Trump or is it to the Constitution of the United States?” Speaker Nancy Pelosi asked her Republican colleagues in a speech on the floor ahead of the vote. “You cannot let him undermine your pledge to the Constitution.”The resolution of disapproval, which passed 245 to 182, must now be taken up by the Senate, where three Republicans have already declared their support, only one short of the number needed for Congress to ratify a stinging rebuke of Mr. Trump’s efforts.It remains highly unlikely that opponents will muster the votes to overturn a promised veto of the resolution. But final passage of a measure to assert Congress’s constitutional authority over spending is sure to bolster numerous lawsuits that maintain that Mr. Trump’s declaration is an unconstitutional end run around Congress’s lawful power of the purse.Many of the 13 Republicans who defected in the House were adamant in their arguments. Representative Jim Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, a veteran lawmaker who once helped manage Republican efforts to remove Bill Clinton from the White House, made it clear he supported the border wall.But, he said, “insufficient action — however frustrating it may be — is still the prerogative of the legislative branch. It is imperative that no administration, Republican or Democratic, circumvent the will of Congress.”In the Senate, where lawmakers are required to vote on the resolution in the coming weeks, those concerns persisted. Even Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader and an open supporter of the declaration, declined to offer his opinion on the legal merits.“We’re in the process of weighing that,” Mr. McConnell said when asked at a news conference on Tuesday. “I haven’t reached a total conclusion.”“You can’t blame the president for trying to use whatever tool he thinks he has to address it,” he added.More than a dozen Republicans voted with Democrats to block President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the United States border with Mexico.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]But ahead of the Senate vote, lawmakers have not said what their next steps would be if the resolution to stop the emergency declaration fails.Three Republican senators — Susan Collins of Maine, Thom Tillis of North Carolina and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — have said that they will support the resolution, and several others have expressed extreme unease. Vice President Mike Pence and a Justice Department lawyer joined Republican senators on Tuesday for a lunch on Capitol Hill to outline what they maintained was the president’s statutory authority for the declaration and need for additional money.Mr. Pence faced some frustration from senators about Mr. Trump’s decision to make the declaration and the legal grounds for doing so, particularly from Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, according to three people familiar with the exchange who asked for anonymity to describe a private meeting.When Mr. Paul argued that Mr. Pence, a former representative, would have opposed Mr. Trump’s use of an emergency declaration and compared it to President Barack Obama’s use of an executive order to establish protections for young undocumented immigrants under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, Mr. Pence objected, according to one person. He argued that there was a difference between the two uses of executive power, according to two people.A spokesman for Mr. Paul said that the senator had raised concerns, along with other senators, about the declaration in an exchange, but did not raise the comparison to DACA.Mr. McConnell acknowledged that there had been “a fulsome discussion” during the meeting, and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a close ally of the president, said he hoped that as a result of the discussion, “we will prevail.”But some senators emerged from the lunch still reluctant to say how they would vote.“Any action by the administration must comply with federal law, so I am reviewing and assessing the specific legal authorities and justifications put forth by the administration,” said Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas. “I am very worried about the slippery slope that could occur.”Some Republican lawmakers and aides said they were unconcerned because they were confident that they could prevent the two-thirds majority needed in both chambers to override a presidential veto, possibly the first delivered by Mr. Trump.“There will be nowhere near the votes to override a veto,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said Tuesday morning at a news conference. “Ultimately, we’re going to stand with the president in making sure we can secure this border.”The resolution of disapproval, under the National Emergencies Act of 1976, serves as the easiest mechanism for Congress to end Mr. Trump’s declaration. House Democrats are still weighing the possibility of joining one of the lawsuits that have been filed to challenge the merits of the declaration.Democrats, who overwhelmingly endorsed the resolution of disapproval, framed the vote as an ultimatum on whether lawmakers would buck party loyalty in order to protect Congress’s constitutionally granted powers. Ms. Pelosi, in a floor speech on Tuesday, listed a number of instances in which House Republicans had objected to Mr. Obama’s use of executive power, vowing that “we are not going to give any president, Democratic or Republican, a blank check to shred the Constitution of the United States.”Representative Joaquin Castro called the vote on the one-page resolution “the most important vote, probably in a generation, on the separation of powers.”Mr. Castro, Democrat of Texas and the author of the resolution, warned Republicans that if the president’s declaration went unchallenged, the issue would resurface.“If Congress lets this stand, if the courts let it stand, how am I to tell a future president that gun deaths that number in the tens of thousands every year in this country, or opioid deaths that number in the thousands in this country, are not an emergency?” Mr. Castro said in a brief interview. “Or climate change is not a national emergency?”“If this becomes a short circuit to get other things done,” he added, “then how is a president not expected to use that tool in the future?”The debate over the merits of Mr. Trump’s national emergency declaration has led some lawmakers to suggest that Congress should re-evaluate how much power it has shifted to the executive branch and the scope of the National Emergencies Act.“The larger issue is Congress has delegated its authority to the White House in hundreds of instances,” said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas. “I think we need to have a bigger conversation about the separation of powers and whether we want to continue to delegate all this authority to the next president.”Overruling concerns from other Republicans, Mr. Trump this month outlined his intent to use $3.6 billion from military construction projects to build his promised wall along the southwestern border. In the lunch with Mr. Pence and the Justice Department lawyer, Republican senators secured a promise that they would be notified about details of which military construction projects would be affected before they voted on the resolution, according to two people familiar with the discussion.Mr. Pence also assured senators that any money diverted from projects would most likely be replaced in the next year’s funding allocation, according to one person familiar with the discussion. While Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, later told reporters that he was confident that effort would be successful, Democratic appropriators would most likely object.House Democrats also pressed the Defense Department on Tuesday to release those details to Congress.“We fear that reprogramming funding intended for military construction projects and counterdrug activities will come at the expense of troop readiness and departmentwide efforts to address the military’s aging infrastructure,” wrote Representatives John Garamendi, Democrat of California, and Doug Lamborn, Republican of Colorado, both members of the House Armed Services Committee.Members of the House Appropriations Committee will hold a hearing on Wednesday to examine the effect of the declaration on military construction and readiness, and members of the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on Thursday in part to examine Mr. Trump’s use of powers under the National Emergencies Act.“The Congress of the United States needs to have a spine, and not lay at the feet of the president,” said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader. “That’s not what the people elected us to do.”Catie Edmondson and Annie Karni contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySidebarBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The last Supreme Court term ended with a constitutional cliffhanger. In a pair of cases that had the potential to reshape American democracy, the justices refused to decide whether election maps can be so warped by politics that they violate the Constitution.Instead, the court said, in essence, “Come back next term.”Next week, a year after the court last heard arguments over whether extreme partisan gerrymandering can cross a constitutional line, the justices will again consider the question.But something fundamental has changed. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, whose vote was seen as crucial to any decision putting limits on partisan gerrymandering, retired last summer.In Supreme Court litigation, as in so many things, timing is everything. Had Justice Kennedy stayed on the court, there are good reasons to think he would have been particularly receptive to the plaintiffs’ arguments in one of next week’s cases.If one thing was clear from his questions last term, Justice Kennedy thought that overt efforts to favor candidates from one political party were deeply problematic.In the first case, from Wisconsin, he asked whether a state could enact a law explicitly requiring election maps to favor one party. Lawyers for state officials said such a law would violate the Constitution.In the second case, from Maryland, Justice Kennedy asked pretty much the same question, adding the prescient phrase “partisan advantage.”“Suppose the Maryland Constitution had a provision that required that partisan advantage for one party be the predominant consideration in any districting,” he said. “Lawful or not?”He plainly thought the answer was “not.” A lawyer for the state seemed to agree.On March 26, the court will consider a case from North Carolina that looks a lot like the hypothetical one Justice Kennedy had asked about. Indeed, the challenged plan included a criterion called “partisan advantage.”The Republican lawmakers who drew the state’s congressional map in 2016 could hardly have been more blatant. They explained that the state’s congressional delegation, in a purple state in which neither party had a distinct edge, was at the time made up of 10 Republicans and three Democrats. A key goal, they said, was “to maintain the current partisan makeup of North Carolina’s congressional delegation.”Representative David Lewis, a Republican member of the General Assembly’s redistricting committee, elaborated.“I think electing Republicans is better than electing Democrats,” he said. “So I drew this map to help foster what I think is better for the country.”“I propose that we draw the maps to give a partisan advantage to 10 Republicans and three Democrats,” he said, “because I do not believe it’s possible to draw a map with 11 Republicans and two Democrats.”The plan worked. In 2016, Republican congressional candidates won 53 percent of the statewide vote. But, as predicted, they again won in 10 of the 13 congressional districts, or 77 percent of them.In 2018, the statewide vote was about evenly divided, but Democrats again secured only three seats. (Following evidence of election fraud, one seat remains open.)The Supreme Court has never struck down a voting map on the grounds that it was drawn to amplify the power of the political party in control of the state legislature. But Justice Kennedy, in his questions last term and in a 2004 concurring opinion, left the door open to the possibility that some kinds of political gamesmanship may be too extreme.In their Supreme Court brief, North Carolina lawmakers asked the court to close that door. The Constitution, they wrote, contemplated a role for politics in redistricting by assigning the task to state legislatures, adding that federal courts have no role to play in supervising the legislatures’ judgments.“The time has come,” they wrote, “for this court to make clear that the Constitution does not provide courts with the tools or the responsibility to say how much partisan motivation is too much.”The lawmakers warned the Supreme Court that its authority would be threatened if it were seen to be making political choices. That was an echo of comments from Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. in the argument in the Wisconsin case.“We will have to decide in every case whether the Democrats win or the Republicans win,” he said, adding, “And that is going to cause very serious harm to the status and integrity of the decisions of this court in the eyes of the country.”Partisan gerrymandering is almost as old as the nation, and both parties have used it. Indeed, in a companion case from Maryland that will be argued the same day as the one from North Carolina, Republican voters are challenging a district drawn by Democratic lawmakers.But in recent years, as Republicans captured state legislatures around the country, they have been the primary architects and beneficiaries of partisan gerrymandering. Using increasingly sophisticated software, they have drawn voting districts to favor their party’s candidates.Justice Kennedy, writing in 2004, said he had not been able to find “a manageable standard” for separating ordinary politics from unconstitutional gerrymandering. But he said he did know one thing.“If a state passed an enactment that declared ‘All future apportionment shall be drawn so as most to burden Party X’s rights to fair and effective representation, though still in accord with one-person, one-vote principles,’” he wrote, “we would surely conclude the Constitution had been violated.”To hear the challengers tell it, that is what happened in North Carolina. But they will be making their arguments to a new audience, one that may not be as receptive as the court that included Justice Kennedy.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter @adamliptak.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn WashingtonBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON — Outraged House Republicans sued President Barack Obama in 2014 for spending billions of federal dollars without congressional approval — and won. Now many House and Senate Republicans could side with President Trump for doing what they saw as a grave abuse of power by Mr. Obama — circumventing an unwilling Congress in a spending dispute.The power of the purse is paramount for Congress. The constitutional edict that “no money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by law” gives Congress the upper hand over the executive branch when it comes to how federal funds are allocated and disbursed. The president can veto spending bills if he is dissatisfied, but is not supposed to rewrite them or defy Congress and spend money in ways it did not approve.Many in both parties now say that the presidential decision to act unilaterally and fund construction for a border wall via an emergency declaration would establish a dangerous new model, encouraging presidents thwarted by Congress to simply cite such a crisis to spend dollars however and wherever they pleased.“We have a crisis at our southern border, but no crisis justifies violating the Constitution,” said Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida.Accepting the declaration would represent another weakening of the authority of Congress in a steady ceding of power to the executive branch — a trend that Republicans have said they want to reverse and that they railed against when Mr. Obama used executive orders to act on issues such as immigration and health care.“As I’ve said many times, I have concerns about the precedent that could be set with the use of emergency action to re-appropriate funds,” said Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican in the Senate.Many other Republicans expressed similar reservations. But Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, who had suggested misgivings of his own, said he would back Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration, as did others who said the president had no other option given the bipartisan spending compromise that denied him money for his coveted wall.“From Day 1, President Trump has made it clear he’s ready to address the crisis at the southern border, whether or not Congress works with him,” said Senator Kevin Cramer, a newly elected Republican from North Dakota. “While Democratic leadership has refused to tackle this issue, I stand with President Trump in favor of funding border security as we head into budget talks for the upcoming fiscal year.”That willingness to stand with the president at the expense of their own institution underscores that the border wall remains a powerful symbol with Republican voters and suggests Republicans would rather risk a troubling precedent than run afoul of Mr. Trump, who made the wall his signature campaign promise in 2016, and his constituency. It also shows how deeply lawmakers wanted to avoid another calamitous shutdown.But Republicans also fear that once Mr. Trump takes the emergency route, future Democratic presidents will follow suit and declare an emergency to deal with issues dear to their hearts, be it climate change, gun safety, immigration or health care. Republicans won’t be left with much room to complain should that happen.Here’s how President Trump’s border wall fits on the list of emergency declarations.Speaker Nancy Pelosi said as much as she warned Republicans of the dangers of the president’s plan.“I’m not advocating for any president doing an end run around Congress,” she said. “I’m just saying that the Republicans should have some dismay about the door that they are opening, the threshold they are crossing.”Ms. Pelosi has a point. In the ever escalating partisan fights in Congress, the party that considers itself wronged by raw exercise of power typically seeks quick revenge when it has the opportunity to do so. Cases in point: the decision by Democrats in 2013 to eliminate the 60-vote threshold for filibusters on most nominations, the Republican blockade in 2016 against Judge Merrick B. Garland’s nomination to the Supreme Court and the elimination in 2017 by Republicans of the 60-vote threshold on Supreme Court nominations.In the Republican case against the Obama administration’s spending, a lawsuit initiated by John A. Boehner, the speaker at the time, claimed that the executive branch was spending more than $130 billion in subsidies under the Affordable Care Act that Congress had never agreed to spend. In a surprising decision in 2015, Judge Rosemary M. Collyer of Federal District Court in Washington sided with Republicans and said that if the House could not sue to protect its appropriations power, it was in big trouble.“The House of Representatives as an institution would suffer a concrete, particularized injury if the executive were able to draw funds from the Treasury without a valid appropriation,” she wrote in her ruling. The case was later essentially made moot when Mr. Trump took over from Mr. Obama, but the ruling against the White House stood.The border wall case is somewhat different because the White House is using its declaration of an emergency as a justification for steering federal dollars to the wall against the wishes of Congress. But Democrats and some Republicans insist there is no emergency in the sense that the law was intended to cover. They say such action by the president would be an unmistakable defiance of Congress, which made its views evident in the spending legislation that did not provide the authority for the president to build the wall he wants.“Congressional intent on this issue is very clear,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. “The president’s wall has been before Congress several times and has never garnered enough votes to even merit consideration. For the president to declare an emergency now would be an unprecedented subversion of Congress’s constitutional prerogative.”Like the health care dispute, the emergency declaration is virtually certain to end up in court and also be challenged in Congress.The president’s actions left many apprehensive about its future implications, particularly members of the Appropriations Committee.“I clearly have concerns about the idea that he can use an emergency declaration for this set of circumstances,” said Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri. “But let’s see what happens and how they do it.”“For the president to repurpose unilaterally billions of dollars that have been appropriated by Congress for specific needs undermines the role of Congress and is of dubious constitutionality,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine.The president sees the emergency declaration as a way to get his way over a resistant Congress. But to many on Capitol Hill, it is the declaration itself that could become the emergency.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.OpinionPeter H. SchuckOpinionSteven Levitsky and Daniel ZiblattOpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House Judiciary Committee voted along party lines on Wednesday to approve a reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act after Democrats turned back Republican attempts to gut protections of transgender people and restrict some gun ownership.The measure will soon head to the full House, but the partisan sparring, particularly over provisions that would require prisons to house transgender people based on the gender they identify with, will continue. That promises to make a once broadly bipartisan law, first passed in the years after the Anita Hill hearings in 1991, rancorous.Protections for gay, bisexual and transgender people have been included in the Violence Against Women Act since the last reauthorization in 2013. The current proposal to reauthorize the act includes additional provisions that would require an expansion of those protections and require the Bureau of Prisons to consider the safety and protection of transgender prisoners when giving housing assignments.Multiple amendments offered by Republicans on Wednesday, however, sought to eliminate the gender identity and sexual orientation language.Representative Debbie Lesko, Republican of Arizona and a survivor of domestic violence, offered an amendment that would prohibit service providers from putting women and children in situations where they have “grounds to fear for a violation of privacy or for his or her safety.”Ms. Lesko cited concern that the measure would be “forcing organizations to take in men in women’s shelters.”“If this is called the Violence Against Women Act, it is not fair that the government is forcing these organizations to take in biological males to be sleeping right next to biological women,” Ms. Lesko said. “I don’t think that’s fair to the women.”A second amendment offered by Ms. Lesko and Representative Steve Chabot, Republican of Ohio, would have allowed faith-based organizations to bar transgender people from taking shelter because of disagreements with their faith. It also failed.“Transgender women are not biological males; they are transgender women,” said Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. “That’s simply a reality. I know there are people who deny that reality, but I think it is a reality.”Other Democrats noted that transgender people, particularly minorities, suffer from some of the highest rates of violence and sexual assault, and that there has been no issue with transgender people having access to services and programs under the act.“There is no evidence to suggest that placing transgender women in shelters poses any danger to anybody,” said Representative David Cicilline, Democrat of Rhode Island. “All it does is ensure that transgender people are safe.”Representative Karen Bass, Democrat of California and a lead sponsor of the reauthorization, offered to visit shelters with Ms. Lesko in an effort, she said, to better understand the challenges facing transgender people, the transition process and how they are helped in shelters.The topic was raised again by Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, who objected to the “gender identity” language in the bill and unsuccessfully moved to remove it.“I would humbly submit that it’s going to do more harm,” he said of the language.“What we’re talking about is gender dysphoria,” Mr. Gohmert added.Republicans also raised objections to provisions in the act that would bar people convicted of a violent misdemeanor or subject to a court order from owning firearms, and tried to undo a provision that gave tribal courts the ability to prosecute non-Native Americans who attack Native American women on tribal land. They also sought to add a provision that would ban organizations that perform abortions from receiving federal funding under the act. None of the amendments passed.Mr. Nadler promised that one amendment — raised by Mr. Gohmert — offering protections for female survivors of gender mutilation would be included, but asked that its language be adjusted before a formal vote.Reauthorization of the 1994 law had been in limbo since December when government funding lapsed, and it was not included in the bill that kept the government funded through the end of September. Republicans had argued for a straight extension of existing law through September, but Democrats wanted changes. Without agreement, the reauthorization lapsed.The current measure, unveiled by House Democrats this month, would not only reauthorize grants and funding, but would expand protections and resources for survivors as well. The bill would also include protections for victims of stalking and protections for men and children.One Republican, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, is a sponsor.“Rather than working with us to find agreement on how to move this critical law forward, Democrats decided to rush to markup a bill that could actually endanger women,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the ranking Republican. “It politicizes and weaponizes a program and a law that, for years, was noncontroversial and bipartisan.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byPolitical MemoBy Alexander Burns and Jonathan MartinA small group of Republican strategists opposed to President Trump, branding themselves Defending Democracy Together, quietly conducted polling and focus groups last fall to gauge whether the president was vulnerable to a primary challenge in 2020. Assembling a presentation for sympathetic political donors, they listed points of weakness for Mr. Trump such as “tweeting/temperament” and “criminality/corruption.”The group concluded that Mr. Trump’s scandals were not yet badly damaging him with Republican-leaning voters: “Even relatively high information voters aren’t paying particularly close attention to day-to-day scandals,” the presentation stated. But it added that there was “room to educate voters” on the subject.Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer, may have begun that education on Wednesday.With Mr. Cohen’s appearance before a House committee, the public airing of ethical transgressions by Mr. Trump reached a new phase, one that may be harder to ignore for friends and foes alike. The spectacle of Mr. Trump’s onetime enforcer denouncing him in televised proceedings, detailing a catalog of allegations of cruelty and crimes, signaled the pressure the president’s already strained coalition could feel in the coming months as Congress scrutinizes him, and as the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III completes his investigation.Republicans still find it difficult to imagine that Mr. Trump’s electoral base would ever desert him, though they acknowledge that bond may soon be tested as never before. Mr. Trump’s core supporters — numbering about two in five American voters, polls suggest — have stayed with him through revelations of financial and sexual impropriety, painful electoral setbacks and the longest government shutdown in history.Robert Blizzard, a Republican pollster, said public opinion of Mr. Trump had proved remarkably fixed over time, “despite over two years of countless stories about Russia, Stormy Daniels, Michael Cohen and others.” He dismissed the possibility that Mr. Cohen would shift opinion on either the left or the right.“The president’s base is rock solid, and his opposition is equally rock solid,” Mr. Blizzard said.Ralph Reed, a longtime evangelical leader, said Mr. Trump’s record of delivering on conservative priorities had effectively cemented his own party in place, fostering particular loyalty among Christian conservatives with two Supreme Court appointments and efforts to restrict abortion rights.“He made a set of promises and he not only kept them — he is in many cases exceeding them,” Mr. Reed said.Mr. Trump may be demanding more and more loyalty from his political base as the adversity he faces in Washington grows more intensely personal. Even before he asks conservatives to secure him a second term in 2020, Mr. Trump will be relying on the right flank of the G.O.P. to keep congressional Republicans in line, as a Democratic-led House conducts intrusive investigations.Yet in the electoral arena, Mr. Trump’s political survival has long depended on his ability to marry the unbending support of his fiercest followers with the ambivalent backing of more traditional right-of-center voters — people who view him as a distasteful character but favor his economic policies, or who preferred him over Hillary Clinton in 2016.Many voters in the latter group defected to vote for Democrats in the midterm elections or stayed home, helping deliver the House into Democratic hands. Should the same thing happen in 2020, it would be very difficult for Mr. Trump to assemble the Electoral College votes he needs to win a second term.It may grow more difficult for Mr. Trump to reforge his 2016 coalition if he faces protracted humiliation of the sort inflicted by Mr. Cohen. In addition to denouncing Mr. Trump as a racist, a liar and a habitual business cheat, Mr. Cohen hinted at the gravity of an investigation by federal prosecutors in New York. And he may have pointed the way toward potential future hearings involving Mr. Trump’s employees and even family members.Some Republicans who have been critical of Mr. Trump have suggested that a turbulent first half of 2019 could create an opening for other Republicans to enter the presidential race, if prosecutors allege that Mr. Trump has broken laws or if the president begins to appear so politically weak that the party fears it could lose the 2020 election in a rout.Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, a moderate Republican who is weighing a primary challenge to Mr. Trump, suggested in a recent interview that the president’s strength as a candidate was a big question mark and speculated that Mr. Trump might ultimately choose not to seek another term.“He’s pretty strong in a Republican primary at this time,” Mr. Hogan said, adding vaguely, “I don’t know what’s going to happen over the next several months.”Mr. Hogan suggested that Mr. Trump’s command of the Republican base could be attributed mainly to conservatives’ revulsion with the Democratic Party, more than their thoroughgoing affection for Mr. Trump.“He’s the president and Republicans are saying, ‘Well, we support the Republican president and we don’t like some of these far-left Democratic alternatives,’” Mr. Hogan said.For most Americans who view Mr. Trump with distaste or worse, Mr. Cohen’s testimony most likely served to confirm their darkest views of the president. A majority of the country has viewed Mr. Trump from the start as a person of low character and limited aptitude for leadership, traits Mr. Cohen highlighted at exhaustive length.So far, Democrats have largely acted as if Mr. Trump’s personal defects are so well known that they require scant elaboration. That was the strategy most Democratic candidates adopted in the key midterm elections, trusting Mr. Trump’s unpopularity to weigh down Republicans but focusing chiefly on issues like health care.Several of the leading 2020 candidates have made references to the president’s tribulations, but mainly in the form of passing applause lines. Senator Kamala Harris of California alludes to Mr. Trump’s scandals and her background as a district attorney by urging Democrats to nominate someone who can “prosecute the case” against Mr. Trump.” On a recent trip to Iowa, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts joked that Mr. Trump “may not even be a free person” at the time of the next election.Republicans are quick to point out that no presidential race is a simple up-or-down vote on the incumbent, and they remain hopeful that Democrats will nominate a candidate aligned with the far left who could alienate some moderates and induce them to give new consideration to Mr. Trump.Henry Barbour, an influential member of the Republican National Committee from Mississippi, said he did not believe events like Mr. Cohen’s testimony would affect his support within the G.O.P., noting that Republicans did not think Mr. Trump was “a Boy Scout when they voted for him in ’16.”“Ultimately, this is going to be a choice between Donald Trump and somebody who sounds like they think the U.S. should be a socialist country,” Mr. Barbour said.But party strategists like Mr. Barbour acknowledge the president’s misconduct has made him vulnerable to defeat, at least if Democrats put forward a broadly appealing candidate.“If Democrats nominated a moderate from the heartland of the country, then it would be a much tougher race,” Mr. Barbour said.One challenge for Mr. Trump, however, is that he will have no easy foil until Democrats settle on their presidential nominee sometime next year.“Trump is always better when he has somebody to pick on,” said Wes Gullett, a Republican strategist based in Arizona, adding wryly, “If Democrats were smart, they would move their convention back until about Oct. 15.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Robert PearWASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s decision to ask a federal appeals court to invalidate the Affordable Care Act has given House Democrats a new opening to pursue what they see as a winning political strategy: moving past talk of impeachment to put kitchen-table issues like health care front and center.The notice to the court, filed late Monday by the Justice Department, could not have come at a more opportune time for Democrats. The finding by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, that there was no evidence of a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia, dashed the hopes of the most partisan Democrats that the House would impeach the president.Speaker Nancy Pelosi — who celebrated her 79th birthday on Tuesday — had already planned to move to change the conversation with the unveiling of the Democrats’ own health care plan on Tuesday. The Democrats’ bill aims to lower health insurance premiums, strengthen protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions and ban the sale of what Democrats call “junk insurance.”The Justice Department’s move gave the unveiling an urgency that not even she could have anticipated.“The Republicans did say during the campaign that they weren’t there to undermine the pre-existing condition benefit, and here they are, right now, saying they’re going to strip the whole Affordable Care Act as the law of the land,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters Tuesday, adding, “This is actually an opportunity for us to speak to the American people with clarity.”The administration staked out its new position in a lawsuit that was filed by Republican attorneys general in Texas and other states after Congress failed in 2017 to repeal the Affordable Care Act, but later reduced the law’s tax penalty for people who do not have insurance to zero. The suit contended that the absence of the real tax penalty rendered the law’s “individual mandate” — the requirement that most Americans have insurance — unconstitutional.Without a requirement to purchase insurance, they argued, the law could not then insist that insurance companies cover pre-existing medical conditions and a suite of other “essential health benefits,” such as maternity care and prescription drugs.A judge in Texas agreed and invalidated the entire law, including its expansion of Medicaid and subsidies to help many low- and middle-income people buy insurance. The Justice Department initially said that only parts of the law, including its protections for pre-existing conditions, should be struck down. But on Monday, it expanded its attack to say the whole law should be invalidated.The Justice Department’s move caught both parties by surprise, and put Republicans in a very awkward position.“Not only is this a poor political move, this decision hurts real people who will unfairly lose their health insurance coverage as a result,” said Representative Tom Reed, Republican of New York. “We need to work to find ways to fix our health care system — not blow it up.”Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, at first said, “I haven’t read through what they — was it last night?” He then added, “I think the president has always been very clear that he wanted to repeal Obamacare, and to put a system in that actually lowers the cost and protects individuals’ pre-existing conditions.”Other Republicans were more pointed. Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, whose vote helped sink the 2017 repeal effort and who is up for re-election in 2020, pronounced herself “very disappointed,” with the Justice Department’s position.“I thought it was bad enough when last year they wouldn’t defend parts of the law, including the parts protecting people with pre-existing conditions,” Ms. Collins said. “This goes far beyond that and I think was a huge mistake.”But Mr. Trump wholeheartedly embraced the new position on Tuesday, both on Twitter and in the Capitol, shortly before joining Senate Republicans at a closed-door luncheon. “The Republican Party will soon become the party of health care,” he told a throng of reporters and photographers, echoing what he had already written on social media.The president used the closed-door meeting in the Capitol for a rambling, unscripted recitation of his legislative priorities, and repeated his intention to make the subject of health care a major issue over the next two years. That pronouncement elicited a muted response, according to a person in the room.After the luncheon, Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and chairman of the Senate health committee, echoed Mr. Trump’s message: “We have to become more the party of health care.”That is not ground the Democrats will easily cede. After months of distracting talk about the Mueller report and impeachment, they are pushing hard to pivot toward the issues that helped elect them — not just health care, but also bigger pay checks and cleaner government.On Wednesday, the House will vote on the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would amend a 1963 law to make it easier for women to challenge pay discrimination.“The focus from the media has been all over Mueller, Russia and so forth,” said Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, a close ally of Ms. Pelosi. “Day in and day out, literally 24 hours a day. But lest you think that is the only thing that members are focused on, that’s wrong.”At a closed-door meeting of House Democrats Tuesday morning, Ms. Pelosi praised Ms. DeLauro’s pay equity legislation and urged her fellow Democrats to “stay focused” on issues that matter to most people, not Washington partisans.At his regular weekly news conference, Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the Democratic Caucus chairman, studiously avoided the Mueller inquiry as he talked up the “For the People” agenda that they notionally campaigned on. “Nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about Russia,” he said. “Nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about collusion; nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about obstruction of justice.”Instead, Mr. Jeffries attacked Republicans for “launching an assault on health care in the United States of America.”In the nine years since it was signed by President Barack Obama, the Affordable Care Act has become deeply ingrained in the nation’s health care system. It revamped the way Medicare pays doctors, hospitals and other health care providers. It unleashed innovation in the delivery of health care. Since its passage, the health insurance industry has invented a new business model selling coverage to anyone who applies, regardless of any pre-existing conditions.The law also includes dozens of other less known provisions. Chain restaurants are now required to print nutrition labeling and calorie counts on standard menu items. Certain employers must now provide “reasonable break time” and a private space for nursing mothers to pump breast milk. The law also improved prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries, and created a new pathway for the approval of less expensive versions of advanced “biologic” medicines made from living cells.Lawyers and other experts say that uprooting the law could have “dire consequences for millions of people,” in the words of Abbe R. Gluck, a law professor at Yale who has closely followed the litigation. It would also raise legal and practical questions.“The Justice Department’s position is mind-boggling,” said Timothy S. Jost, an emeritus professor of health law at Washington and Lee University. “The Affordable Care Act affects the whole health care system, including Medicare, Medicaid, the Food and Drug Administration, the Indian Health Service and much more. The administration is asking the appeals court to invalidate the entire law without really knowing exactly what that would mean. It’s reckless.”But Ken Paxton, the attorney general of Texas who led the group of Republican state officials who challenged the Affordable Care Act, said he welcomed the Trump administration’s latest expression of support for a lawsuit that had already prompted a district court judge in Texas to strike down the health law. That judge’s ruling in December has been on hold as the matter winds its way through the court system.“We have always been confident that the district court’s extremely well-reasoned opinion was correct on the law, just as we have also always been confident that this administration takes its obligation to uphold the Constitution seriously,” Marc Rylander, a spokesman for Mr. Paxton, said Tuesday. “We applaud the Department of Justice’s faithful execution of that duty.”In addition to inciting a furor on Capitol Hill, the administration’s new position is also certain to take center stage as an issue in the 2020 elections. Democrats have been saying that Mr. Trump still wants to abolish the law, and they can now point to the Justice Department’s filing as proof.The Democrats’ offensive on health care is more than an effort to draw a contrast with Republicans. But in unveiling their bill on Tuesday, Democratic leaders were also trying to smooth over internal divisions between liberals pushing the single-payer government insurance plan known as “Medicare for all” and centrists, who are calling for a more incremental approach.The House Democrats’ health care plan, put together by Ms. Pelosi and several House committee chairmen, builds on the Affordable Care Act, which the speaker was instrumental in passing.It would overturn a rule Mr. Trump issued in August that greatly expanded the market for sales of short-term insurance plans that do not have to cover prescription drugs, maternity care, drug abuse treatment or pre-existing conditions. And it would increase the two main types of financial assistance the law provides: tax credits to help low- and middle-income people pay premiums, and cost-sharing reductions to lower deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs.At Tuesday’s news conference, Democrats were eager to remind reporters that Mr. Trump said in the 2018 campaign that “Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.”“We will remind the American people time and time again of that broken promise,” said Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 House Democrat.Glenn Thrush, Nicholas Fandos and Katie Benner contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The Senate on Wednesday again rebuked President Trump for his continued defense of Saudi Arabia after the killing of the dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi, voting for a second time to end American military assistance for the kingdom’s war in Yemen and to curtail presidential war powers.The 54-to-46 vote, condemning a nearly four-year conflict in Yemen that has killed thousands of civilians and inflicted a devastating famine, sets the foundation for what could become Mr. Trump’s first presidential veto, with the House expected to overwhelmingly pass the measure, possibly this month. The vote also might be the opening salvo in a week where Senate Republicans have the opportunity to hit back at the president’s aggressive use of executive power. On Thursday, the chamber will vote on a resolution that would overturn Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency to secure funding for his border wall.“The United States Congress is going to reassert its constitutional responsibility over issues of war that have been abdicated for presidents, Democrats and Republicans, for too many years,” said Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont.Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, encouraged lawmakers on Wednesday to oppose the Yemen resolution, calling it “inappropriate and counterproductive” and warning them not to conflate their displeasure with the administration’s response to Mr. Khashoggi’s death with the broader issue of the conflict in Yemen. But in a show of defiance, seven Republican senators broke ranks to join the resolution: Mike Lee, of Utah; Susan Collins of Maine; Steve Daines of Montana; Jerry Moran of Kansas; Lisa Murkowski of Alaska; Rand Paul of Kentucky; and Todd Young of Indiana.Still, Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut and one of the lead backers of the Yemen resolution, warned that “we shouldn’t overstate the Republican anti-Trump renaissance,” noting that both resolutions under consideration this week had 50-vote thresholds and that Republican defections were relatively limited.Supporters of the Yemen resolution have faced a long and grueling road to get the legislation onto the president’s desk. The Senate — led by the resolution’s authors, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Murphy and Mr. Lee — first passed the measure 56 to 41 in December, but Paul D. Ryan, the House speaker at the time, refused to take up the resolution.His successor, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, did take it up, and the House easily passed it last month. But House Democrats inadvertently derailed the process by supporting a surprise procedural motion offered by Republicans to declare the chamber’s opposition to anti-Semitism. By attaching an unrelated amendment to the Yemen resolution, the House ended its “privileged” status, which would have forced the Senate to quickly take it up and send it to Mr. Trump.The vote on Wednesday was essentially a do-over, and House leadership and the Congressional Progressive Caucus, wary of a repeat derailment, are already urging Democrats to oppose any unrelated amendments that Republicans might add.The resolution is a rare use of the 1973 War Powers Act, which gave Congress the ability to compel the removal of military forces absent a formal declaration of war. Those powers, created after the Vietnam War, have almost never been used, as lawmakers have demurred from intervening in politically delicate matters of war, peace and support for the troops.The conflict in Yemen is proving to be different, and the resolution vote came as Republicans have become increasingly willing to register their unhappiness with Mr. Trump’s foreign policy. The Senate has rebuked the president on his plan to withdraw troops from Syria and Afghanistan, and the House overwhelmingly registered its opposition to his threats to pull the United States from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.But anger over the administration’s dismissive response to the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, a Virginia-based columnist for The Washington Post, has been intense and sustained.After first playing down his own intelligence officials’ reports that the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, was responsible for the killing, Mr. Trump then blew past a legally mandated deadline that required the White House to report to Congress whether it believed the prince was personally responsible for Mr. Khashoggi’s death.In an attempt to defuse rising anger on Capitol Hill, the White House sent two aides from the State and Treasury Departments last week to a closed-door briefing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. But senators on the panel were left unsatisfied, with some suggesting it was time for the full Senate to act.“The Senate will have to decide whether it’s going to impose its own sanctions,” said Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida.The Foreign Relations Committee, now overseen by Senator Jim Risch of Idaho, a Trump loyalist, however, has yet to report out bipartisan legislation introduced last month that would impose new sanctions on the kingdom. Mr. Risch condemned the passage of the resolution on Wednesday evening, calling it “a terrible message of U.S. division and lack of resolve” and a “bad precedent for using the War Powers Resolution to express political disagreements with a president.”Last month, Saudi Arabia, anxious to turn a new page after the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, appointed Princess Reema bint Bandar bin Sultan as its new ambassador to the United States. She will replace Prince Khalid bin Salman, a son of King Salman and a younger brother of the crown prince, who took the post in 2017.Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON — The Senate on Wednesday confirmed Chad A. Readler of Ohio as President Trump’s 33rd federal appeals court judge despite bipartisan criticism that as a Justice Department official in the Trump administration he had shirked his official responsibility to defend the Affordable Care Act when it was challenged in court.Mr. Readler’s nomination is just the latest to divide the Senate as Republicans renew their drive to fill federal district and circuit court vacancies while gearing up to force through a Senate rules change to accelerate the confirmation process for the remainder of Mr. Trump’s tenure.With the approval of Mr. Readler to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and two other appeals court nominees headed for a vote, Mr. Trump will have filled nearly 20 percent of the nation’s appellate court judgeships. That is a pace well ahead of his predecessors and one that puts his stamp firmly on the federal judiciary, with nearly two years remaining in his term. President Barack Obama did not see his 33rd circuit judge confirmed until early in his second term.The fight over Mr. Readler was intensified by his role in the legal struggle over the Affordable Care Act, which Democrats said he was obligated to defend as a top lawyer in the Justice Department’s civil division because it was existing law. Instead, he filed a brief in support of a lawsuit by Republican attorneys general aimed at gutting the Affordable Care Act, and argued that it, and its protections against denying coverage for pre-existing conditions, was unconstitutional.The Trump administration has sought to repeal the law, but the effort failed and the law remains in place.Mr. Readler’s nomination was approved on a 52-to-47 vote with all Democrats and one Republican voting no. Senator Susan Collins of Maine, the sole Republican to speak out against Mr. Readler, cited his health care argument in opposing him.“Rather than defend the law and its protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions — such as asthma, arthritis, cancer, diabetes and heart disease — Mr. Readler’s brief in Texas v. United States argued that they should be invalidated,” she said.Democrats seized on that issue, saying that while Senate Republicans proclaimed that they supported coverage for those with existing conditions, they were backing an architect of the Trump administration’s attempt to dismantle the law.“Tens of millions of Americans who need this protection are watching,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. “A vote for Readler is very simply a vote for the lawsuit to strike down our health care law.” Mr. Schumer noted that Mr. Readler was nominated for the court seat the day after his health care brief was filed.“Apparently in the Trump administration depriving people of protections for pre-existing conditions — it is something to be rewarded and rewarded no less with a lifetime appointment,” he said.One after the other, Democrats took to the floor to criticize the nomination. The depth of their opposition — and eagerness to highlight Mr. Readler’s health care actions — was demonstrated by unusually strong opposition from Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, who has been nearly alone in his willingness to regularly support Trump nominees, including the Supreme Court justices Brett M. Kavanaugh and Neil M. Gorsuch.“This is something I don’t do often,” Mr. Manchin said. “I don’t take it lightly.” But Mr. Readler, he said, had “single-handedly tried to rip insurance away from West Virginians and Americans” when his Justice Department responsibility was just the opposite.“This gentleman has basically shown it is not about the law; it is not about the Constitution; it is about his politics and himself and not a man who should be sitting on a higher court,” Mr. Manchin said.Republicans said little in support of Mr. Readler, nor did any of them back his position in the health care case.Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, who has made confirming judicial nominees a top priority, said that Mr. Readler, 46, had “built a longstanding reputation in private practice as a consummate legal professional.”He was the second appellate judge to be confirmed this week after a Senate vote on Tuesday on the nomination of Allison Rushing, 36, a former clerk for Justice Clarence Thomas, to a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Republicans dismissed concerns about her lack of experience, and Ms. Rushing will be the youngest federal judge in the nation.After Mr. Readler’s confirmation vote, Mr. McConnell immediately moved to force a final vote on another nominee, Eric E. Murphy, 40, the state solicitor for Ohio, to fill another vacancy on the Sixth Circuit. Democrats and liberal activists oppose him, saying he fought against the legalization of same-sex marriage and supported efforts to make it harder to vote.The fate of another high-profile nominee — Neomi Rao for the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit — remains uncertain, though Republican objections that threatened her confirmation have quieted.Republicans have the power to confirm Mr. Trump’s judicial nominees with a simple majority because of a successful attempt by a Democratic-led Senate in 2013 to overturn a longstanding rule requiring 60 votes to confirm a judge. But the process can still be time-consuming. Mr. McConnell has grown increasingly impatient and frustrated with Democrats for stretching out the time to consider nominees.Republicans are now threatening to use their majority to push through a change that would cut debate time on most nominees to two hours from 30 hours after an initial procedural vote. The change would not apply to appeals court judges like Mr. Readler, but it would allow the Senate to clear a backlog of lower-level district court nominees much faster.Mr. McConnell said again Tuesday that he would like to reach an agreement on the change with Democrats but that appears highly unlikely.“We’re still hoping to have bipartisan support to go forward with the standing order, which would require 60 votes,” Mr. McConnell said. “In the absence of that, it is still my desire to try to achieve that, and that’s an issue we’ll have, a discussion we’ll have among Republicans.”Without a compromise, Republican senators said they expected to force the rules showdown by the end of the month.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — The House Intelligence Committee’s first hearing since Robert S. Mueller III completed his report had barely begun when the panel’s Republicans moved en masse to demand the resignation of the committee’s chairman.It went downhill from there.The acrimony on display Thursday as the intelligence committee tried to resume its work on Russia’s intervention in the 2016 presidential election laid bare the bitter divide that persists in Congress even after Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, completed his 22-month investigation of the subject. The Republican demand and the barbed response of the committee’s chairman, Representative Adam B. Schiff, echoed well outside the wood-paneled House hearing room.Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, spent much of his weekly news conference comparing Mr. Schiff, a fellow Californian, to Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, who fueled fears in the 1950s that Communist spies had infiltrated the American government. Representative Michael R. Turner, Republican of Ohio, played the same card in the hearing room, fuming that Mr. Schiff would not accept Attorney General William P. Barr’s word that Mr. Mueller had not found the Trump campaign to have taken part in a conspiracy to undermine the election.“With McCarthyism,” a senator was “chasing after Russian Communists,” Mr. Turner, an Intelligence Committee member, said. “Now we have Schiff chasing after Russian collusion.”Undaunted, Mr. Schiff made clear he was not about to step down, nor was he about to absolve President Trump or his campaign from nefarious conduct with Moscow — especially without seeing Mr. Mueller’s report first. The Justice Department revealed on Thursday that the report came in at more than 300 pages, raising more questions about what information was behind the four-page summary released by Mr. Barr.Mr. Schiff had many questions of his own.“You might think that it’s O.K. that the president’s son-in-law sought to establish a secret back channel of communications with the Russians through a Russian diplomatic facility. I don’t think that’s O.K. You might think it’s O.K. that an associate of the president made direct contact with the G.R.U. through Guccifer 2.0 and WikiLeaks; that is considered a hostile intelligence agency,” Mr. Schiff said, referring to Russian military intelligence and a Russian intelligence hacker.He continued: “You might think that it’s O.K. that the national security-designate secretly conferred with the Russian ambassador about undermining U.S. sanctions. And you might think it’s O.K. he lied about it to the F.B.I. You might say that’s all O.K. You might say that’s just what you need to do to win. But I don’t think it’s O.K. I think it’s immoral. I think it’s unethical. I think it’s unpatriotic. And yes, I think it’s corrupt.”Democrats who now control the House say that they will accept Mr. Mueller’s findings, but as Mr. Schiff’s monologue indicated they are increasingly determined not to let go of what they see as a deeply troubling pattern of wrongdoing by Mr. Trump, his businesses and his administration.That has in turn enraged Republicans, who have happily embraced what they call Mr. Mueller’s absolution of Mr. Trump. They say Democrats will stop at nothing to ruin his presidency, and bristle at Democrats accusing them of turning a blind eye to the Russian threat. And at the center of their wrath is Mr. Schiff, whose doughy-faced demeanor hardly evokes an attack dog.“The findings of the special counsel conclusively refute your past and present assertions and have exposed you as having abused your position to knowingly promote false information, having damaged the integrity of this committee, and undermined faith in U.S. government institutions,” Representative K. Michael Conaway, Republican of Texas, said to Mr. Schiff.Reading from a letter signed by every Republican member of the committee, Mr. Conaway added, “Your actions both past and present are incompatible with your duties as chairman of this committee.”Mr. Trump intervened as well, accusing Mr. Schiff of “knowingly and unlawfully lying and leaking.” He “should be forced to resign from Congress!” the president wrote on Twitter.Mr. Schiff, clearly prepared for the ambush, argued that there was a difference between prosecutors proving a criminal conspiracy and the committee investigating evidence of foreign compromise. The committee’s own investigative work would go on, he signaled, though outside the hearing room he has indicated that work may well need to shift course once Mr. Mueller’s findings are fully understood.Democrats backed him. “History will clarify what has happened,” said Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut.Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California praised Mr. Schiff as “calm, professional, patriotic,” and said his work as the chairman of the committee has been “in stark contrast to the irresponsible and almost criminal behavior of the previous chair of the committee,” Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California.“What is the president afraid of — that he would go after a chairman of the committee?” she said. “I think they’re just scaredy-cats. They just don’t know what to do.”The party gave Mr. Schiff a more formal nod of confidence this week as well. On Wednesday, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, House Democrats’ campaign arm, announced that Mr. Schiff would serve as a key fund-raiser for the caucus’s most vulnerable members to help put together a firewall to project the House majority.Out of the glare of the television cameras, Democrats are somewhat more circumspect.“In the heat of the political moment just as the Republicans wanted to try to convict Hillary Clinton in the public sphere, Democrats probably contributed to the expectations that the outcome would be worse for the president than it was,” Mr. Himes said in an interview a day ahead of the hearing.Notably sitting out the fight was Mr. Nunes, whom Democrats have accused of many of the same abuses that Republicans accused Mr. Schiff of on Thursday and whose resignation they asked for last year. Mr. Nunes’s sustained work last term to scrutinize the origins of the Russia investigation and accuse federal law enforcement officials of acting out of anti-Trump political bias sent convulsions through what in quieter times is one of Congress’s more bipartisan bodies.“We should not be used as a platform to spread false information and bizarre conspiracies,” Mr. Nunes said on Thursday in brief remarks before deferring to Mr. Conaway.Thursday’s showdown came, ironically enough, during a hearing with four subject experts on “Putin’s Playbook: The Kremlin’s Use of Oligarchs, Money and Intelligence in 2016 and Beyond.” Down the line, the witnesses warned that Vladimir V. Putin’s Russia would only grow bolder in its efforts to destabilize western democracies, including the United States.“The bad news is that there is a new ideological fight between Putinism and the West, and it has only just begun,” said Michael McFaul, an ambassador to Moscow under former President Barack Obama. “In my estimation, we as a country are underestimating it.”The whole episode offered a sharp contrast to the Senate Intelligence Committee, which with a yawning pace and no-leaks team has continued apace with its own Russia investigation. The committee’s chairman, Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina, said this week that he aimed to finish witness interviews in the coming weeks and issue the last in a series of reports on the panel’s findings in the coming months.On Thursday, as Democrats and Republicans in the House traded recriminations, the Senate panel quietly called back for another interview with Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to a congressman from Texas. He is K. Michael Conaway, not Michael K. Conaway. The error was repeated in a photo caption.Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Catie Edmondson contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe Senate is poised to rebuke President Trump’s national emergency declaration at the southwestern border. The only question: how big the Senate margin will be. By Emily CochraneWith Senator Rand Paul’s decision to support a resolution to block President Trump’s emergency declaration, Congress appears ready to deliver a stern rebuke to the president over his border wall and a clear statement that it will defend its ability to control federal spending.Senator Paul, a libertarian-minded Kentuckian, said he will join fellow Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Thom Tillis of North Carolina, giving proponents of the resolution of disapproval the 51 votes they need, if Democrats remain united in their support.On Monday, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, confirmed that the measure has the votes to pass the Senate. Senate leadership, he said, has been conferring with the Senate parliamentarian to see if the House-passed resolution could be amended before the vote. “It’s an interesting question,” Mr. McConnell said at a news conference in Kentucky. “It’s never been done before.”The measure, outlined in the National Emergencies Act, is the simplest way for Congress to end a president’s national emergency declaration. Mr. Trump has said he will veto it, and neither chamber is likely to muster the two-thirds majority needed to overturn the veto. But the plaintiffs in multiple lawsuits will most likely seize upon a congressional repudiation as support for their argument that, in declaring a national emergency to take money for his wall that was not appropriated by Congress, Mr. Trump is subverting the Constitution, which grants Congress clear control over federal spending. The remaining question: How stern a rebuke will the Senate deliver?Here’s what to watch for as more Republican senators prepare to announce how they will vote on the resolution.Mr. Trump is hoping to divert $3.6 billion from military construction projects to his cherished wall at the southwestern border, effectively subverting lawmakers and the budget they set. Members of the Senate Appropriations Committee, who pride themselves on bipartisanship, have raised concern that Mr. Trump is taking funds that were carefully doled out after months of negotiation in the bill that he signed last month to fund the government through Sept. 30. His declaration marks the first time the National Emergency Act has been invoked because Congress has denied the president funds. Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said the president should use funds already approved by Congress, for instance from Defense Department accounts to support interdiction of illegal drugs.“It avoids taking money for military construction projects specifically approved by Congress such as military barracks and hospitals,” Mr. Alexander said in a speech on the Senate floor Thursday. “And it also avoids months or years of litigation, which could make it unlikely the full 234 miles are ever built.”Others like Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona, have said that they are seeking assurances that key military construction projects will not be affected. In a private lunch with Vice President Mike Pence last week, lawmakers asked for details about what projects would be affected. The Defense Department has not released that information. Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri and another member of the Appropriations Committee, has also expressed misgivings about Mr. Trump upsetting the panel’s handiwork.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]Multiple Republican senators have expressed unease about the precedent set by the declaration and the potential that a future Democratic president could use a national emergency declaration for liberal purposes, once Congress forfeits its exclusive, constitutionally granted power of the purse.Senators Marco Rubio of Florida, Ted Cruz of Texas, and Mike Lee of Utah have all voiced concern on the constitutional question, though none of them has explicitly promised to overturn the emergency declaration. Mr. Tillis, in an opinion piece published in The Washington Post outlining his argument, warned that conservatives needed to consider what some of the current Democratic presidential candidates would do with a national emergency: implement parts of the Green New Deal to address climate change, or limit access to guns to address gun violence, among other possibilities. Even Mr. McConnell acknowledged Monday that the precedent was a concern and was part of the reason he had previously “argued, obviously without success, that the president not take this route.”Supporters of the declaration say that the president is within his rights to use powers that Congress gave him through the National Emergencies Act in the 1970s. “Using this authority is not and was not my preferred choice,” said Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, speaking Sunday on CNN’s “State of the Union.”But Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, in an opinion piece on Fox News published late Sunday, was clear: “In September of 2014, I had these words to say: ‘The president acts like he's a king. He ignores the Constitution. He arrogantly says, 'If Congress will not act, then I must,’” Mr. Paul wrote, adding, “I would literally lose my political soul if I decided to treat President Trump different than President Obama.”Even Mr. McConnell, the first to endorse Mr. Trump’s declaration, declined earlier this week to weigh in on the legality of the measure.“We’re in the process of weighing that,” Mr. McConnell said when asked at a news conference on Tuesday. “I haven’t reached a total conclusion.”Republican senators facing a difficult re-election campaign next year are confronting a dilemma: Stick with Mr. Trump’s core voters or side with swing voters who largely oppose the wall and the emergency declaration to fund it. Senator Cory Gardner, Republican of Colorado, hailing from a state that voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 and Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012, may be the most vulnerable Republican up for re-election next year, and he has not declared where he stands on the resolution of disapproval.Nor has Ms. McSally, another targeted Republican up for election next year for the seat she was appointed to fill after John McCain’s death. Two other Republicans targeted by Democrats, Ms. Collins and Mr. Tillis, have come down on the side of opposing the emergency declaration.A vote supporting the resolution, framed as a defense of Congress’s constitutional power of the purse — or conversely, a vote in support of Mr. Trump’s policies and use of executive power — could sway voters. Emily Cochrane is a reporter in the Washington bureau, covering Congress. She was raised in Miami and graduated from the University of Florida.  @ESCochrane Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Coral DavenportWASHINGTON — New efforts by President Trump and his staff to question or undermine the established science of climate change have created a widening rift between the White House on one side, and scientific facts, government agencies, and some leading figures in the president’s own party on the other.The president’s senior advisers are exploring the idea of creating a panel aimed at questioning the National Climate Assessment. According to a White House memo, the group would include William Happer, a Princeton physicist who has asserted that carbon dioxide — a greenhouse gas that scientists say is trapping heat and warming the planet — is beneficial to humanity.The climate assessment, a sweeping report issued by the White House itself in November, concluded decisively that the burning of fossil fuels was warming the atmosphere, leading to a raft of harmful effects across the United States and the world.And Mr. Trump announced last week on Twitter that he would nominate Kelly Knight Craft to be his ambassador to the United Nations. Ms. Craft said in a 2017 television interview that, on the issue of climate change, she believes there are “scientists on both sides that are accurate.” Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.“There is no precedent for something like this,” said Douglas Brinkley, a historian who has written books on five former United States presidents. “Other presidents have attacked policy initiatives, but not science.” At the same time, more senior Republicans, including those in Congress, are moving in the opposite direction, acknowledging the established science and publicly calling to reduce fossil fuel pollution. To be sure, some Republicans continue to question, or, more commonly, to remain silent on the issue of human-caused climate change.But in February, three of the top-ranking Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Greg Walden of Oregon, Fred Upton of Michigan, and John Shimkus of Illinois, published an op-ed on the website Real Clear Policy in which they said, “climate change is real” and called for innovations to “reduce greenhouse gas emissions.”Similarly, in December, Senator John Barrasso, the Wyoming Republican who is chairman of the Senate Environment Committee, wrote an op-ed in The New York Times in which he acknowledged his acceptance of climate science but also criticized the Paris Agreement and proposals to tax carbon dioxide emissions.Republican pollsters and staff members said the White House’s efforts to attack the science — that fossil fuel pollution traps heat, warms the planet, and contributes to more severe droughts, heat waves and hurricanes — could backfire and put Mr. Trump fundamentally at odds with his own party. “A lot of thoughtful Republicans have accepted the reality of climate change and are wrestling with questions of policy,” Whit Ayres, a prominent Republican pollster, said. Mr. Ayres noted that many Republicans had concerns about climate change policies like taxing or regulating coal and oil pollution. But he said that questioning the foundational science of climate change could become a political liability.“There are perfectly legitimate questions to be raised about whether a dollar spent fighting climate change is better spent on health care or education,” Mr. Ayres said. “But there are no longer credible questions to be raised about the existence of climate change. If the White House ends up there, that is simply not credible.”White House officials initially sought to play down the National Climate Assessment by publishing it late in the afternoon the Friday after Thanksgiving. But its dramatic findings — that the impacts of climate change could knock as much as 10 percent off the size of the American economy by century’s end — received a lot of attention around the country. Analysts also noted that the findings of the assessment could provide legal ammunition to opponents of Mr. Trump’s efforts to roll back climate change regulations, since the report makes the case that increasing greenhouse emissions is harmful to humanity.It was those factors that prompted the White House effort to establish a panel or committee that would question or contradict those comprehensive scientific findings, according an administration official, who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and who spoke on condition of anonymity, and a former senior White House official with knowledge of the matter.But the creation of such a panel, should it come about, would put Mr. Trump in a highly unusual position.In particular, experts said, presidents have never sought to undermine the findings of the National Academies of Science, created by President Abraham Lincoln to provide unbiased scientific findings to the country’s leaders. The group played a key role in reviewing the conclusions of the National Climate Assessment.“If there is one body that has the thorough respect of scientists and policymakers, it is the National Academies,” said Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences and international relations at Princeton University. “I can’t recall any time that an administration has tried to debunk a review by the National Academy, or where the White House ever tried to ‘re-review’ something the academy has reviewed.”Critics of the president also singled out his announcement that he would nominate Ms. Craft as ambassador to the United Nations, given that her comments on climate change are far outside the mainstream of established science. “She’s taken this bizarre position,” said R. Nicholas Burns, who served as under secretary of state for political affairs during the George W. Bush administration. “She will find that in New York, at the Security Council, climate change is one of the top issues. If the representative of the world’s largest economy and one of the largest emitters doesn’t understand the science of this issue, it makes the U.S. look feckless and irresponsible.”Ms. Craft, currently the United States ambassador to Canada, and her husband, Joseph W. Craft III, a billionaire coal magnate from Kentucky, were major contributors to Mr. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and donated to his inaugural committee.A White House spokeswoman declined to speak on the record for this article. The moves by the White House come as public opinion in the United States and around the world appears to be falling more in line with the science.Globally, climate change is seen as the top international threat, according to a poll conducted in 26 countries and published this month by the Pew Research Center.The Trump administration has been criticized by other countries for Mr. Trump’s plans to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement and for his policy moves to weaken Environmental Protection Agency rules.But the new plans to create the panel and the expected nomination of Ms. Craft will sharply deepen that divide, said Sherri Goodman, who served as a deputy under secretary of defense in the Clinton administration.“It creates a huge divide with our European and Asian allies, and it allows China to claim the mantle of climate leadership,” she said. “China shows up at climate conferences when the U.S. doesn’t, and they offer to engage on the science.”In the United States, polling consistently shows that more than half of Americans now accept that climate change is caused by human activities. While most surveys show that among Republicans, less than half accept that science, the data also reveals a sharp generational divide among Republicans. A 2018 poll by the Pew Research Center found that just 18 percent Republicans born in the postwar baby boom accepted the reality of human-caused climate change, but twice that number of millennial Republicans, defined as those born from 1981 through 1996, accepted that science. In addition, the poll found that 45 percent of millennial Republicans said they were seeing at least some effects of global climate change in the communities where they live, compared with a third of baby boomer Republicans.That fact is not lost on political analysts. “For Republicans who believe pollsters, pollsters are telling them, ‘people care about climate,’ ” said Steven J. Milloy, a member of Mr. Trump’s E.P.A. transition team who now runs a website aimed at casting doubt on the established science of human-caused climate change.Mr. Milloy and other Republican strategists also said that within the White House, millennial Republican staffers were pushing back at the effort to create the new panel.“If you’re 30 years old and work at the White House, it’s not clear that this effort is a good idea,” said Mr. Milloy.But he added that for Mr. Trump’s base of supporters, none of that matters. “People like me, we love the guy.”For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.Coral Davenport covers energy and environmental policy, with a focus on climate change, from the Washington bureau. She joined The Times in 2013 and previously worked at Congressional Quarterly, Politico and National Journal.  @CoralMDavenport • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byDon’t mind that op-ed from last week.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.Congressional Republicans offered up two conflicting storylines yesterday, and it’s worth keeping both in mind.1) Multiple senators hypocritically supported President Trump’s emergency declaration for a border wall.Thom Tillis of North Carolina was the most blatant. Two weeks ago, he opposed the Trump move as an unacceptable power grab, writing in a Washington Post op-ed: “There is no intellectual honesty in now turning around and arguing that there’s an imaginary asterisk attached to executive overreach — that it’s acceptable for my party but not thy party.”[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]As recently as Wednesday, his staff sent nasty emails of denial to Aaron Blake of The Post when Blake described Tillis as turning “wobbly.”Yesterday, however, Tillis caved. He did so after conservatives began talking about supporting a primary challenge to him in 2020 if he voted against Trump. “This is Trump’s party,” Rachel Bitecofer of Christopher Newport University notes.Of the seven Republican senators facing competitive races next year, six voted with Trump yesterday. They are evidently more scared of losing a primary than of losing a general election, as Jonathan Bernstein of Bloomberg Opinion points out.Cory Gardner of Colorado was another Republican who supported the emergency declaration yesterday. The Denver Post’s editorial board, which had backed Gardner in his 2014 campaign, responded with: “Our endorsement of Cory Gardner was a mistake.”2) And yet Trump is a weak president.As nervous as congressional Republicans may be about primary challenges, they also keep showing that their support of Trump is almost purely self-interested — and not very deep. Even with the hypocritical support, 12 Republicans voted against Trump’s declaration, allowing the measure to pass 59-41 and presumably forcing him to issue a humiliating veto. The vote, The Times editorial board writes, “is a big deal. In practical terms, it could fortify the multiple lawsuits pending against Mr. Trump’s absurd declaration, a faux emergency so nakedly political that even he admitted it was unnecessary.”Not long before the Senate vote, the House yesterday passed a resolution — in a 420-to-0 shutout — demanding that the Justice Department release the Mueller report. The combination of the two votes was a remarkable rebuke. Yes, congressional Republicans are doing far less than they should to stand up to Trump. Many of them, like Tillis, have made themselves look foolish in the process. But it’s also the case that Trump receives less support from his own party than any other president in recent history.His presidency, as Bloomberg’s Bernstein has written, is entering “a dangerous phase” for him.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn WashingtonBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON — Senate Republicans are preparing to detonate a mini-nuke.Angry over Democratic delaying tactics that have slowed the conveyor belt of Trump administration nominees plodding toward confirmation, the Senate majority is preparing to strong-arm a rules change that would reduce required debate time on judicial and executive branch appointees to two hours from as many as 30.It would be the third time in six years that one party has used a procedural tactic, called the “nuclear option,” to rewrite the Senate rule book rather than do it the old-fashioned way by assembling a bipartisan consensus. The change might not be as drastic as the 2013 Democratic decision to abolish the 60-vote filibuster on most nominees or the 2017 decision by Republicans to extend that 51-vote confirmation threshold to the Supreme Court.But Democrats say the consequences will still be significant, accelerating the nominating process for 80 percent of administration appointees, limiting the vetting of nominees and keeping the confirmation conveyor belt humming.“They want to ram more nominees through,” Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, the senior Democrat on the Rules Committee, said about the proposal to cut debate time.President Trump has made his preferences clear.“Democrats in the Senate are still slow walking hundreds of highly qualified people wanting to come into government,” he complained last weekend on Twitter. “Never been such an abuse in our country’s history. Mitch should not let Senate go home until all are approved.” (The Senate had already left for 10 days.)Of course Democrats would contest the president’s historical analysis, given the yearlong Republican blockade of Merrick B. Garland, President Barack Obama’s Supreme Court nominee.But Republicans say Democrats are stalling noncontroversial nominees to simultaneously hamstring the Trump administration and force Republicans to waste sparse Senate floor time, and they are fed up.“Presidents deserve to have their teams in place — it is that simple,” Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri and chairman of the Rules Committee, told the panel last week. “It applies to whatever party occupies the White House.”He and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, sought to persuade Ms. Klobuchar to go along by arguing that as a recently announced Democratic presidential candidate, her administration would benefit from the expedited process should she win.“That’s going to really help me with my base,” Ms. Klobuchar retorted sarcastically about the Republican encouragement.With hundreds of Trump appointees awaiting action, some for more than a year, Republicans say they can no longer tolerate Democrats forcing them to stretch out floor consideration as long as possible, eating up multiple days to confirm a single person. Republicans have had to vote to cut off debate on nominees — essentially end a filibuster — more than 120 times in Mr. Trump’s first two years, only to see many of the nominees then easily approved.Under the proposal by Mr. Blunt and Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, the current requirement for another 30 hours of debate on a nominee after the first vote would be cut to two hours on sub-cabinet-level posts and Federal District Court judges, allowing those to proceed much faster.“I just don’t think it is fair in any way to continue the practice we have seen on full display here,” Mr. McConnell said. “It is time for the Senate to change the practice before it becomes so pervasive that the genie never gets back in the bottle.”Democrats have multiple problems with the proposal, and one of them is named Garland. Democrats remain outraged by what they see as a stolen Supreme Court seat and say it was Mr. McConnell himself who pioneered the tactics they have adopted.“It has created some hard feelings because it was consciously done in the hopes that your party would win the next presidential election, and you did,” Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, told Mr. McConnell. “When we talk about records of obstruction, I think that record has been broken at the highest level.”At the same time, Democrats say the delays cannot be all that serious since Mr. McConnell and the president have regularly trumpeted the record number of judges they have installed in the first years of the administration. Ms. Klobuchar noted that Mr. Trump had 53 district court judges confirmed compared with 15 for Mr. Obama in that period, and that Mr. Trump also won the confirmation of 30 appellate court judges by the midpoint of his tenure — the most ever.“These facts tell us that it is unnecessary to change the rules of the Senate right now,” said Ms. Klobuchar, who noted that two judicial nominees had to withdraw last year after new objections surfaced as the 30-hour clock was running.Mr. McConnell acknowledged that he has placed a priority on judges. Another 40 are in the pipeline right now, 34 of whom would be covered under the new rules. But the focus on judges and their lifetime appointments has meant that the lower-level executive branch nominees — what Mr. McConnell called “assistant secretaries of this, that and the other” — have stalled, leaving the executive branch resembling Swiss cheese, shot through with vacancies.“We end up with an executive filled with acting nominees who have no accountability to us,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, the Tennessee Republican who has worked on resolving nomination struggles in a bipartisan way in the past. “This has to change.”The two parties worked out a temporary agreement on limiting debate in 2013, but that predated the severe escalation in nomination partisanship.Republicans say they remain open to Democratic ideas on how to tweak the proposal to attract bipartisan support. Depending on how Republicans move ahead, the change could be enacted with either 60 or 67 votes — both of which would require significant Democratic involvement. That would prevent another nuclear detonation.But Republicans are making it very clear that if Democrats do not go along, they will soon jam the change through on the Senate floor with a simple majority, using an arcane parliamentary maneuver that Democrats employed in 2013 and Republicans followed in 2017.In 2013, Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who fought the change before retiring, said allowing a Senate majority to change the rules at will would mean there were no rules.It’s beginning to look as if he was right.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Julia JacobsAn Arizona legislator resigned Wednesday amid an ethics investigation into reports that he was charged with sex crimes decades ago. Just months earlier, colleagues had called on him to step down over derogatory remarks he made about black people and immigrants.The Republican state representative, David Stringer of Prescott, Ariz., came under fire in December after he told university students that black people “don’t blend in” to society like European immigrants and “always look different.” Mr. Stringer refused to resign even though members of his own party called on him to do so.In late January, Mr. Stringer began to face heightened scrutiny from fellow legislators after a local news outlet, The Phoenix New Times, reported that he had been charged with multiple sex offenses, including child pornography, when he lived in Maryland in the early 1980s.Mr. Stringer, who could not immediately be reached for comment on Wednesday night, told another local news outlet, Prescott eNews, in January that he had been falsely accused and that there was “no guilty plea, no conviction.” (Mr. Stringer, a lawyer, is an investor in Prescott eNews.)After local news reports about the decades-old charges, two state legislators, one from each party, submitted complaints to the Arizona House Ethics Committee that prompted an investigation. On Wednesday, Mr. Stringer faced a deadline from the committee to hand over documents related to the Maryland court case, said State Representative Reginald Bolding, a Democrat who filed one of the complaints to the committee.Instead, Mr. Stringer resigned.“It makes myself and my colleagues believe that the information was so damning,” Mr. Bolding said in a phone interview, “that he would prefer to resign.”In a Facebook post on Tuesday, Mr. Stringer railed against the chairman of the Ethics Committee, State Representative T.J. Shope, accusing him of “denying me due process, denying me access to speak to my accusers, and trying to force me to disclose court-sealed documents.” Mr. Shope, a Republican, did not respond to an email request for comment on Wednesday night.Mr. Stringer told Prescott eNews in January that “any kind of porn allegations were completely dismissed.” He told the news outlet that he had accepted a plea of “probation before judgment” on a couple of the charges.Mr. Stringer, whose lawyer did not immediately return a request for comment, said on Facebook that he believed his opponents were “trying to use the old arrest to smear me and push me out of office.”State Representative Kelly Townsend, a Republican who filed one of the complaints with the Ethics Committee, said in a phone interview that she wanted to give Mr. Stringer the chance for due process during the committee’s proceedings. In her letter to the committee, dated Jan. 25, Ms. Townsend wrote that “disturbing” reports accusing Mr. Stringer of a criminal history involving child pornography should be formally investigated.“I was hoping he’d be able to establish his innocence,” she said in the interview. “I was hoping he’d be able to open the records and show us. And that didn’t happen.”She added, “This is a situation that just cannot be overlooked.”Last June, Mr. Stringer survived pressure to step down after he said that minority immigration prevented schools from integrating. Both the state Republican Party chairman and the Republican governor, Doug Ducey, called for Mr. Stringer to resign after those comments, according to The Associated Press.Mr. Stringer was one of two Republicans elected to represent the state’s First Legislative District in November.Mr. Bolding, the Democratic legislator, said in an interview that the resignation felt like a “culmination of who David Stringer has shown himself to be.”“It’s unfortunate that the people in his district didn’t realize who he was when they sent him to the House,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael TackettWASHINGTON — President Trump on Friday issued his first veto, rejecting legislation to overturn his declaration of a national emergency to fund a wall along the southwestern border. The bill had attracted significant Republican support in Congress, a rare and notable departure from partisan solidarity.“Today, I am vetoing this resolution,” Mr. Trump told reporters in the Oval Office. “Congress has the freedom to pass this resolution, and I have the duty to veto it.” The president called the resolution “dangerous,” “reckless” and a “vote against reality.”Mr. Trump was flanked by Vice President Mike Pence, Attorney General William P. Barr and Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary. Mr. Barr said the president’s emergency order was “clearly authorized under the law” and “solidly grounded in law.”The veto, which was expected, will send the legislation back to Congress, which almost certainly does not have enough votes for an override. That means Mr. Trump’s declaration will remain in effect.Democrats were quick to condemn the president’s action.“It is no surprise that the president holds the rule of law and our Constitution in minimal regard,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said in a statement. “There is no emergency; Congress has refused to fund his wall multiple times; Mexico won’t pay for it; and a bipartisan majority in both chambers just voted to terminate his fake emergency.”To that, Speaker Nancy Pelosi added, “The House and Senate resoundingly rejected the president’s lawless power grab, yet the president has chosen to continue to defy the Constitution, the Congress and the will of the American people.”Mr. Trump has long insisted that there was a security and humanitarian crisis at the border with Mexico, an assertion that was undercut by Mr. Trump himself when he acknowledged that he could have waited to issue a declaration. But on Friday, he offered a flurry of statistics to support his contention, though many were vague. He blurred numbers that reflected a humanitarian problem with those he said represented a security issue.Democrats had seized on his earlier words and cited other government data that shows there has been no flood of criminal migrants coming into the United States. Some Republicans shared that view.But others said they opposed the president on the grounds that it was the duty of Congress to appropriate taxpayer dollars and that Mr. Trump had exceeded his authority. On Thursday, a dozen Republicans joined Senate Democrats in voting to overturn Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration, 59 to 41.“Never before has a president asked for funding, Congress has not provided it and the president then has used the National Emergencies Act of 1976 to spend the money anyway,” Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said after the vote. Senator Jerry Moran, Republican of Kansas, said he thought Mr. Trump’s declaration was unconstitutional.The president said on Friday that he understood why some Republicans believed he had overreached. “They’re doing what they have to do, and I put no pressure on anybody,” Mr. Trump said. “I actually said, ‘I could have gotten some of them to come along.’ I said: ‘I want you to vote your heart. Do what you want to do. I’m not putting any pressure.’”“I’ll let them know when there’s pressure, O.K.?” he added. “And I told them that. I said, ‘When I need your vote, I’m going to let you know.’ I didn’t need the vote because we all knew it was going to be a veto, and they’re not going to be able to override. It’s going to go very quickly.”Mr. Trump has held broad sway over congressional Republicans in his first two years in office. The decision by the dozen Senate Republicans to side with Democrats on an issue central to the president’s agenda was seen as a reclaiming of the role of Congress as a coequal branch of government.Mr. Trump was undeterred by the Republican opposition and quickly signaled his next step when he tweeted “VETO!” not long after the vote. The president said on Friday that there was nothing less than an “invasion” of the United States by migrants, and he added that so many of them had been apprehended that there was “nowhere left to hold all of the people that we’re capturing.”Even if Congress fails to override the veto, the emergency declaration is already drawing court challenges.A coalition of 20 states, including California and New York, sued last month over Mr. Trump’s use of emergency powers, arguing that the president does not have the authority to divert funds for building a wall along the Mexican border because it is Congress that controls spending.Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, said that Congress had sent a clear message that “your supposed ‘emergency’ isn’t one.”He added, “We are determined to stop his fabricated emergency in its tracks.”Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, said in a statement that “even members of President Trump’s own party are beginning to realize that he is a one-man constitutional crisis.”“The president’s veto is as meaningless as his signature on the national emergency declaration,” he added. “Congress has rejected the president’s declaration, and now the courts will be the ultimate arbiter of its legality. We look forward to seeing him in court and to the shellacking that he will receive at the hands of an independent judiciary.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe Constitution or The Donald? Why is this such a hard choice for congressional Republicans?By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Once again, congressional Republicans are facing a gut-check moment, forced to choose between supporting and defending the Constitution or Donald J. Trump. It’s not looking good.House Democrats introduced a joint resolution of disapproval on Friday aimed at canceling President Trump’s bogus national emergency at the southern border. Representative Joaquin Castro of Texas is leading the charge, and Speaker Nancy Pelosi is expediting the measure, which is on track for a floor vote on Tuesday. It is widely expected to pass the chamber, where Democrats have the majority.Once the resolution clears the House, the Senate is required to hold its own vote within 18 days — meaning the majority leader, Mitch McConnell, cannot do his usual stonewalling. Even so, with Republicans in control there, and loath to irk the president, the resolution is widely expected to die. At that point, it will be up to the courts, where multiple suits have already been filed, to grapple with this out-of-control executive.It is not too late to stop this legislative cop-out. Critical principles are at stake — Congress’s power of the purse, the separation of powers — that transcend any one declaration or leader. Members of both parties need to make clear that a presidential pique is not the same thing as a national emergency, that a president who fails to persuade Congress to support his priorities can’t then simply pursue them by fiat. Lawmakers who cannot rally themselves to this cause should stop pretending that they’re anything more than partisan automatons; they will have declared themselves members of a second-class branch of government.As has often been noted, there is no border emergency, aside from Mr. Trump’s desperation to make good on a rabble-rousing campaign slogan. Having failed to extract billions of taxpayer dollars from Congress for the construction of his wall, the president executed a power grab. Don’t just take our word for it; that’s how Mr. Trump himself explained it in last week’s bizarre Rose Garden emergency declaration.Think of it as the presidential equivalent of phoning 911 because your pizza delivery is taking too long.Congress has the power to effectively override an emergency declaration through a resolution of disapproval. On Wednesday, Ms. Pelosi sent Democratic and Republican members a “Dear Colleague” letter urging support for such as move. “We have a solemn responsibility to uphold the Constitution, and defend our system of checks and balances against the President’s assault,” she wrote.House Republicans once cared passionately about checks and balances, and frequently accused President Barack Obama of abusing his authority. In 2016, one of the “Big Ideas” in the conference’s “Better Way Agenda” was a pledge to end presidential overreach: “Our President has been acting more like a monarch than an elected official. That stops now.”Mr. Obama did extend emergency declarations for several uncontroversial foreign policy matters and use executive orders (lawfully) to achieve policy goals. But he never invoked emergency authority to divert money after Congress refused to fund a pet project. For some reason, the Republicans have been far less vocal about their high-minded principles with Mr. Trump in the White House. Of the more than 225 co-sponsors who had signed on to the disapproval resolution as of Friday, only one was a Republican, Representative Justin Amash of Michigan.In the Senate, plenty of Republicans remain skittish about executive overreach. Several have publicly expressed disapproval of Mr. Trump’s faux-mergency, ranging from the ultraconservative Mike Lee to the more moderate Susan Collins, from the freshman Mitt Romney to the old-timer Chuck Grassley. “I don’t like this,” Alaska’s Lisa Murkowski told The Associated Press. “I think it takes us down a road and with a precedent that, if it’s allowed, that we may come to regret.” Kentucky’s Rand Paul declared that “extraconstitutional executive actions are wrong, no matter which party does them.” For the joint resolution to clear the Senate, only four Republicans need to join Democrats to assert that the president cannot thumb his nose at Congress whenever it suits him. But despite all the hand wringing, thus far, only one has said she will: Ms. Collins, who recently told reporters, “If it’s a clean disapproval resolution, I will support it.”Some Republicans dislike what Mr. Trump has done but have convinced themselves that there’s no point in voting for the resolution since the president will surely veto it. Others rationalize that the emergency declaration, while outrageous, may be technically legal, and thus should be left to the courts to sort out. Some Republicans are toying with the idea of voting against the resolution but then introducing new legislation to reform the underlying National Emergencies Act.These are all dodges — ways to make Republicans feel better about not pushing back — and they can provide only false comfort. As he has shown time and again, Mr. Trump is a bully, and he likes to push boundaries. Let him take your lunch money today, and tomorrow he will kick you out of your treehouse.Republican lawmakers swore an oath to bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution and to well and faithfully discharge the duties of their office. Here’s their chance.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — House Republicans joined Democrats on Thursday to demand that the Justice Department publicly release the full findings of the special counsel’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and the possible involvement of President Trump’s campaign.Though the resolution is nonbinding, Democrats who put it on the House floor are trying to build public pressure on Attorney General William P. Barr before the investigation’s anticipated conclusion.Far from standing in the way, Republicans joined Democrats en masse. On the 420-to-0 vote, four Republicans voted present.“This report must see the light of day, must be available to the American public for a catharsis that will allow us to start with the facts, understand what happened and begin to rebuild the faith of the American people,” said Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut and a senior member of the Intelligence Committee, which has undertaken its own Russia investigation.[Update: Mueller delivers report on Russia investigation to attorney general.] Republicans debating it on the House floor called the resolution a waste of time and said they trusted Mr. Barr. But they were unwilling to stand in its way.“I am especially concerned about what would happen if the report was not made available to Congress,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the second-ranking Republican, said in a statement. “Since the investigation began, Democrats have used it as an excuse to fund-raise, fear-monger and peddle conspiracy theories about collusion with the Russian government. Let’s bring this chapter to a close.”The four “present” votes came from two libertarians who routinely oppose such resolutions, Representatives Justin Amash of Michigan and Thomas Massie of Kentucky, and two ardent Trump loyalists, Representatives Matt Gaetz of Florida and Paul Gosar of Arizona.Mr. Gaetz said afterward that while he supported making the report public, he objected to other language in the resolution praising the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, whose team he has repeatedly attacked as partisan.Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, tried to move the resolution through the Senate later on Thursday by unanimous consent, but he was blocked by Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.Though Mr. Graham, the Senate Judiciary Committee chairman, said he supported transparency, he asked to amend the resolution to include the appointment of a new special counsel to investigate the F.B.I.’s handling of the Hillary Clinton email case and its surveillance of a former Trump adviser. Mr. Schumer rejected the request as political and beside the point, and the resolution failed.The Justice Department has given signals in recent weeks that after 22 months, Mr. Mueller is nearing completion of his work. Peter Carr, a spokesman for Mr. Mueller, offered what many viewed as fresh evidence of an imminent conclusion on Thursday when he confirmed that one of the special counsel’s top prosecutors, Andrew Weissmann, will be departing the special counsel’s office “in the near future.”The resolution — sponsored by Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee chairman, and a handful of other Democratic committee leaders — “calls for the public release of any report Special Counsel Mueller provides to the attorney general, except to the extent the public disclosure of any portion thereof is expressly prohibited by law.”Under the regulation that governs special counsels, Mr. Mueller is expected to produce a confidential report on his prosecution decisions to Mr. Barr, who will then review it and produce his own report to Congress. Thus far, Mr. Barr has demurred on just what he will release to Congress and the public, reserving the right to keep some matters secret.Democrats seized on Mr. Barr’s resistance to making specific promises about the Mueller findings during his confirmation process in the Senate. They have not let the point rest in the weeks since, with prominent Democratic chairmen and other leaders laying out their case for why all of the special counsel’s findings — including underlying evidence — ought to be shared with Congress for review.House Democrats are prepared to use subpoena power and other tools at their disposal to force the Justice Department to turn over anything Mr. Barr chooses to withhold.They argue that the Justice Department set a new precedent in the last two years when it granted Republicans, who then controlled the House, extraordinary access to hundreds of thousands of pages of sensitive investigative material related to the F.B.I.’s investigation of Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private server and the Russia investigation itself.“Last year, I directly warned department leadership that in providing these materials to Congress, they were establishing a precedent, and one they would have to live with in the future,” said Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee.Democrats also fear that the Justice Department could combine its policies against indicting a sitting president and against disclosing negative information on an investigative target who was not indicted to justify keeping secret all the information collected about Mr. Trump.“To maintain that a sitting president cannot be indicted, and then to withhold evidence of wrongdoing from Congress because the president cannot be charged, is to convert D.O.J. policy into the means for a cover-up,” Mr. Nadler said during debate over the resolution on Thursday.Though they voted for the resolution, many Republicans expressed skepticism about the wisdom and likely success of Democrats’ quest. Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee, told reporters last week that he anticipated hurdles to public disclosure in the form of classified information, information obtained through a secret grand jury process and the need to insulate continuing prosecutions stemming from the investigation.“Those are also going to be things that we are going to have to litigate,” Mr. Collins said.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — The House voted unanimously on Wednesday to condemn anti-Semitism and “all attempts to delegitimize and deny Israel’s right to exist,” adopting language put forth by Republicans who have spent weeks trying to paint two freshman Democrats as anti-Semites and dozens of other Democrats as their enablers.The surprise vote attached the nonbinding resolution to an unrelated measure demanding an end to American support for Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen. Republicans, taking advantage of a procedural rule that permits them to move to send a bill back to committee, attached the anti-Semitism language to the motion.Democrats, led by one of their most prominent Jewish members, Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, accepted it. Every member of the House voted in favor, except for two Republicans who voted present: Representatives Justin Amash of Michigan and Thomas Massie of Kentucky, who said the measure should not clutter a War Powers Resolution. (Republicans agreed that the bill would not be sent back to committee.)The anti-Semitism resolution comes two days after Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the entire Democratic leadership condemned Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, and forced her to apologize for a Twitter post in which she insinuated that American support for Israel is fueled by money from donors and pressure from the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobbying group known as Aipac.But Democratic leaders are losing patience with a continuing campaign by Republicans to smear Democrats as anti-Semitic when some of their own leaders — including President Trump — have trafficked their own anti-Semitic tropes and failed to renounce anti-Semitic followers.“She apologized for her remarks,” Ms. Pelosi said of Ms. Omar. “I’m still waiting for some of the Republicans to apologize for their ‘Jew-S-A’ chants that they had at their rallies right in front of the president’s face, and he never rejected that.”“They don’t have clean hands on this. A newcomer member of Congress has apologized for her remarks. It took them, what, 13 years to notice Steve King?” Ms. Pelosi continued, referring to the Iowa Republican recently stripped of his committee posts for embracing white supremacy.Republicans have repeatedly attacked Ms. Omar and another freshman Democrat, Representative Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, as anti-Semitic, citing remarks that both have made on Twitter. They have been deeply critical of Israel’s occupation of the West Bank.The resolution does not mention either woman by name. But it expresses opposition to the movement to boycott, divest from and impose sanctions on Israel — known as the B.D.S. movement — that they support.The National Republican Congressional Committee blasted out emails on Wednesday insinuating that two freshman House Democrats, Elaine Luria of Virginia and Mike Levin of California, were covering for Ms. Omar’s anti-Semitism. Ms. Luria is Jewish, and Mr. Levin has spoken openly about the anti-Semitism faced by his paternal grandparents.Democrats say Republicans are being hypocritical. They note that the Republican leader, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, was himself accused of anti-Semitism in the fall when he said the Jewish billionaires George Soros, Michael R. Bloomberg and Tom Steyer were trying to buy the election.“We are still waiting for an apology” from Mr. McCarthy, Representative Katherine M. Clark of Massachusetts, a member of the House Democratic leadership, told reporters on Wednesday.Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the Democratic leader, echoed her point, adding that Mr. Trump routinely makes offensive comments — such as his recent tweet making light of the Trail of Tears, the genocidal removal of Indians from their homelands — while Republicans remain silent.Mr. Trump, too, has been accused of anti-Semitism. When he was running for office, he posted a tweet showing Hillary Clinton, his Democratic opponent, on a pile of money and a Star of David, calling her the “most corrupt candidate ever!” He later deleted the tweet amid an outcry from those who said he was playing into the anti-Semitic trope about Jews using their money to wield influence.The latest war of words over anti-Semitism on Capitol Hill is making some Jewish leaders increasingly uneasy. Jeremy Ben-Ami, the president of J Street, the liberal Jewish lobbying group, said in a recent interview that he worries that charges of anti-Semitism are being thrown around lightly.“This pattern of overheated, ill-considered and reductive attacks, playing out on social media and in the press, has failed to address these issues with the nuance, sensitivity and seriousness that they deserve,” Mr. Ben-Ami said Monday in a statement, after Ms. Omar apologized. “It does nothing to advance the true interests and needs of Israelis or Palestinians, nor those of the American Jewish community.”But Aipac praised the vote: “We applaud the overwhelming, bipartisan rejection of anti-Semitism and B.D.S. by the House of Representatives today.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily Cochrane and Thomas Gibbons-NeffJACKSONVILLE, N.C. — The main road that connects a strip of tattoo parlors, pawn shops and restaurants to Camp Lejeune is still lined with broken trees bent by Hurricane Florence’s winds. Inside the gates, a new threat has arisen for the sprawling Marine Corps base as it contends with billions of dollars in hurricane damage and lingering effects of contaminated water: President Trump’s border wall.On Tuesday, the House will try to override the first veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency and rescue Congress’s bipartisan bid to block the president’s national emergency declaration, which Mr. Trump wants to use to siphon military funds from projects like Camp Lejeune’s reconstruction to build a wall on the Mexican border.Last month, Democrats appealed to Republicans — with only limited success — to vote down the president’s emergency on the lofty grounds of constitutional prerogative and Congress’s control of federal spending. This time, on the veto override, their appeal is more parochial: Look where the wall money will come from.“A bipartisan majority of Congress went on record in voting to rebuke this ill-conceived idea,” said Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Now that members of Congress can see the potential impact this proposal could have on projects in their home states, I hope they will take that into consideration before the vote to override the president’s veto.”The expansive list of Defense Department projects targeted for possible cuts — $12.9 billion in all — spans nearly all 50 states and more than two dozen countries where troops are stationed. Fire station repairs, new schools and training complexes are all slated for potential funding delays to fulfill Mr. Trump’s intent to take up to $3.6 billion in military construction funds for the wall. So are plans for Camp Lejeune’s new water treatment facility.“What may seem small is large to others,” said Monique Gibbs, 39, a Jacksonville, N.C., native who works with survivors of trauma and abuse.On Monday, Patrick M. Shanahan, the acting defense secretary, authorized the first transfer of Defense Department money to fencing construction at the southwestern border: up to $1 billion from military personnel funding toward the construction of 57 miles of border wall, improving roads and adding lighting in Yuma, Ariz., and El Paso, according to a letter sent to the Department of Homeland Security.That transfer was made without having to use the emergency declaration, but the Defense Department is rushing to sign contracts on several projects, hoping that will protect them before officials turn to military construction funds to fulfill the president’s request. But some projects would be hit if the emergency decree survives its congressional rebuke and court challenges, and delays could be consequential for service members and their families.National Guard officials are scrambling to award money to build a $9 million fire rescue station in Peoria, Ill., before it is lost to the border and locals are left with an outdated fire station — built in 1992 and incapable of providing 24-hour support.At Fort Campbell, Ky., home of the historic 101st Airborne Division, base housing and maintenance facilities are throwbacks to the 1950s. The structures have slowly degraded under the rapid deployment tempo of the wars since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, according to congressional aides who recently toured the facility. And without congressional intervention, construction on a $63 million middle school will be delayed and base officials will likely repurpose an aging high school in the interim.In Jacksonville, there is discomfort among residents that money for Camp Lejeune’s projects could be delayed for a wall more than a thousand miles away.John Henley, a defense contractor here, doubted the “financial feasibility” of Mr. Trump’s signature campaign promise, but he also was resigned to a local hit.“I hate to make it so nonchalant; a building or two may fall down before they get repaired,” Mr. Henley, 34, said as he polished off a black cherry and grape snow cone a couple miles from Camp Lejeune. But, he added, “we’re a resilient type.”Efforts to turn the list into political ammunition against Republicans are particularly pointed in North Carolina, where Senator Thom Tillis, a first-term Republican, is running for re-election next year. Mr. Tillis publicly outlined his intent to vote against Mr. Trump’s national emergency declaration last month in a Washington Post opinion piece last month that dwelt on his constitutional responsibilities.Then, just before the vote last week, he changed his mind and voted with the president.Already, the state Democratic Party has blasted out emails detailing which North Carolina projects were on the list — including the Camp Lejeune water treatment facility — and condemning Mr. Tillis for putting “his political career ahead of the well-being” of local military families. That fund-raising email sparked more than double the average amount in donations, according to a person familiar with the results.“This definitely damaged Senator Tillis’s re-election concern in a way that’s unique, more so than the government shutdown or some of the past votes he took,” said Robert Howard, a spokesman for the North Carolina Democratic Party, citing the potential effect on Camp Lejeune, Fort Bragg and other military bases. “We very much understood what the emergency declaration could mean to our state.”Mr. Tillis said on Monday that he was concerned about the potential threat to the projects, but added, “I feel like the critical needs — we’ll be able to secure funding.”“I’m not worried about that,” Mr. Tillis said when asked about Democrats weaponizing his vote and the threat to North Carolina projects. “They’ll always be looking for ammunition.”Republican strategists and several conservative voters said his flip-flop suited them fine.“I’m glad he changed his mind,” said Ann Sulliview, 68, speaking ahead of a Republican convention in Wayne County, where officials emphasized the need to keep both the Senate and the presidency in Republican control. But, she conceded, “he was going to catch flak for that either way he went.”Patrick Gallagher, a Wayne County chiropractor, agreed. “We put him in office because he’s going to help the Republican Party,” he said. “The fact that he had a change of heart shows that he reflected back on why he’s there. He’s not there to thwart what we’re trying to accomplish.”Potentially losing money for military projects, he acknowledged, “is not the best” for the state. But he said it was something he and other conservative voters could accept for Mr. Trump and his wall.“I think we would give that up to do the greater good,” Dr. Gallagher said. “It’s not the best, but we’re forced to do that.”Republican lawmakers who voted against the national emergency declaration found that sentiment prevalent when they returned to their districts. Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, was disinvited from a Republican dinner after his vote against the emergency declaration, the Kansas City Star reported.And at a town hall-style meeting in Spokane, Wash., on Monday, Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers told about 20 constituents that her vote for the resolution of disapproval — “a difficult vote for me,” she repeated — was a vote against a president trying to secure taxpayer funds without congressional approval, not against a border wall. Some applauded her resolve, but others were unconvinced of her support for Mr. Trump’s border security vision.“I appreciate your vote, but I disagree,” said Kerry Schmidt, 62. “There’s a lot of people fighting against it. Where are the people fighting for it?”Emily Cochrane reported from Jacksonville, N.C., and Thomas Gibbons-Neff reported from Washington.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael TackettWASHINGTON — The tentative deal reached late Monday by congressional negotiators to avert another government shutdown brought to the fore something President Trump has rarely seen in his time in office: reality-based programming.With Mr. Trump holding firm to his demand for a border wall with Mexico, Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill adopted another approach, namely flexibility.The agreement in principle is a new challenge for Mr. Trump as he navigates a divided government.Here are some key takeaways from the possible accord.Mr. Trump has rarely wavered in his arguments for a border wall, many of them false, including several of those made Monday night at a campaign rally in El Paso.The president insisted that the barriers built there on the border with Mexico had helped drastically reduce crime. But Republican and Democratic local officials, and federal crime statistics, showed otherwise.[Trump repeats false claim about El Paso crime, this time in El Paso]Republicans in Congress were mindful of this and the possible fallout from another shutdown. So they did what the president has chosen not to do: negotiate with Democrats to try to fashion a solution.The tentative deal does not come close to Mr. Trump’s demands, but does represent what Republicans were able to achieve given the strong resistance and the relative solidarity among Democrats.It delivers even less than a deal that Vice President Mike Pence proposed to Democrats in December. Republicans yielded on money and wall construction, while Democrats dropped demands for some aspects of migrant detention.When asked if the president would sign the deal if Congress approves, it, Senator Richard Shelby, Republican of Alabama and chairman of the appropriations committee, told reporters, “We think so. We hope so.”Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.By almost any objective measure, the president cannot claim victory based on this deal. That does not mean he will not try. In recent days, he has shifted his rhetoric from “building” a wall to “finishing” a wall.He was defiant at the rally in El Paso. “We need the wall and it has to be built,” he said.News of the possible deal broke just before Mr. Trump was to speak.He had the option of receiving a briefing on the compromise or making a scheduled appearance with Laura Ingraham of Fox News. He chose the latter. He has some work to do persuading his supporters on the right who see the wall as a core promise of his presidency. The early reviews were harsh. On Fox, Sean Hannity called the deal “a garbage compromise.”The president has retained the option of declaring a national emergency to build the border barrier. Now he will have to decide whether to accept the deal that top members of his own party in Congress negotiated, or to in effect go it alone.If Mr. Trump were to declare a national emergency, the move would assuredly draw a court challenge, and would not help him in further negotiations with Congress on other issues.Or he can continue to try to make the wall a potent issue of his 2020 re-election campaign, arguing that if he had a Republican-controlled Congress, he could deliver on his promise. That strategy failed in the 2018 midterm elections.Mr. Trump is not the only one with political imperatives in the border security debate.Members of Congress also possess a sense of self-interest that exceeds their allegiance to the president. Republicans in particular know that the wall is not broadly popular in the country, and that another government shutdown would probably hurt their party far more than Democrats. That much of the impetus for compromise seemed to come from Senate Republicans, who hold a majority in their chamber, is a clear signal they want to move past this debate.Democrats were vulnerable, too, though, as they would shoulder a sizable share of the blame for another government shutdown. And they cannot advance their agenda to show a contrast with Mr. Trump and Republicans if the government is closed.Congressional deals reached among small groups of even influential members have also been known to fall apart. For now, this deal looks promising, but nothing is final until it is final.The compromise needs to be written into legislation, both chambers of Congress need to pass it, and the president needs to sign it, all before Friday to avert another government shutdown.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alexander BurnsSenator Tom Udall of New Mexico announced on Monday that he would retire at the end of his term, becoming the first Democratic senator to declare he would leave the chamber after the 2020 elections and setting in motion a competitive race to succeed him among a rising generation of Western Democrats.Mr. Udall, 70, the scion of a political dynasty that helped define the modern Democratic Party in the West, explained his decision in an online message, writing that he believed he could be more productive over the next two years without the pressures of seeking re-election.“Without the distraction of another campaign, I can get so much more done to help reverse the damage done to our planet, end the scourge of war, and to stop this president’s assault on our democracy and our communities,” Mr. Udall wrote on Medium.Mr. Udall joins two senior Republicans, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Pat Roberts of Kansas, in his plans to retire at the end of the current Congress.First elected to the Senate in 2008, Mr. Udall previously served in the House and as New Mexico’s attorney general, following in the steps of family members who forged a path to power as liberal environmentalists well before demographic change made the Southwest a prime electoral battleground.His father, Stewart Udall, represented Arizona in the House and served as secretary of the interior, while his uncle, Morris K. Udall, known as Mo, was a senior member of the House who ran for president. A cousin, Mark, was a senator from Colorado.Tom Udall’s rise in elected office mirrored New Mexico’s emergence as a safely Democratic state. After voting for George W. Bush in 2004, the state has turned progressively bluer and currently has no Republicans in its congressional delegation. Mr. Udall won his Senate seat in 2008 after the retirement of Senator Pete V. Domenici, a Republican who was the last member of the party to represent New Mexico in the chamber.Democrats are likely to have an advantage in the race for Mr. Udall’s seat, and it is not clear how seriously Republicans might target the race, given how many incumbent senators they must defend nationwide. President Trump’s unpopularity has taken a severe toll on Republicans in New Mexico and other diverse Western states, and it could be difficult for the party to mount a strong campaign there during a presidential election.But the Democratic side of the race is likely to be freighted with significance in other ways. New Mexico was among the states that saw a tide of young and diverse Democratic officeholders sweep to power during last year’s midterm elections, and some of those newly elected officials may now consider running for Senate.The state elected a Latina chief executive, Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, and sent two new women to the House: Representative Deb Haaland, 58, who became one of the first Native American women elected to Congress; and Representative Xochitl Torres Small, 34, a Latina former aide to Mr. Udall who carried a conservative-leaning district that hugs the border.Most senior in New Mexico’s House delegation is Representative Ben Ray Luján, a former chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee who now serves as deputy speaker of the House.In addition, there are a number of ambitious Democrats in state and local offices who could join the Senate race, including Tim Keller, the mayor of Albuquerque; Maggie Toulouse Oliver, the secretary of state; and Hector Balderas, the state attorney general who ran unsuccessfully for Senate in 2012.There are a handful of prominent Republicans in the state, including Susana Martinez, the former governor, and Richard J. Berry, the former mayor of Albuquerque. It is unclear if any would be interested in mounting a long-shot campaign, and Ms. Martinez left office deeply unpopular.Mr. Udall offered no hint as to a preferred heir on Monday, but he indicated that he intended to remain actively involved in politics and government. It has been speculated for some time that he could join the cabinet of a Democratic president, perhaps serving as interior secretary like his father.“I’m most certainly not retiring,” Mr. Udall wrote. “I intend to find new ways to serve New Mexico and our country after I finish this term. There will be more chapters in my public service to do what needs to be done.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Joseph P. FriedOgden R. Reid, the former editor of The Herald Tribune who represented congressional districts in Westchester County, N.Y., for 12 years, first as a Republican and then as Democrat, died on Saturday at his home in Waccabuc, N.Y. He was 93.His death was confirmed by his son David.Mr. Reid was the scion of a newspaper publishing family whose grandfather was the editor and principal owner of the renowned New York Tribune and whose father merged it in the 1920s with the equally storied New York Herald to form The Herald Tribune. Mr. Reid was The Herald Tribune’s president and editor in the 1950s.The newspaper was respected for its high-quality journalism but dogged by financial troubles that would help bring its demise in the 1960s; the family sold its controlling interest in 1958. Mr. Reid entered government service the next year when President Dwight D. Eisenhower named him ambassador to Israel.In 1961, another Republican, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, appointed Mr. Reid chairman of New York’s State Commission Against Discrimination. Some politicians saw the move as intending to help make Mr. Reid better known in the state should he seek elective office. His family’s ties to the Republican Party went back to the 19th century.He did seek office the next year, running for the party’s nomination for the House of Representatives seat from a predominantly Republican district in eastern Westchester. The county’s Republican leaders backed him over their party’s incumbent, Edwin B. Dooley, who was seeking re-election. Mr. Reid defeated him in the primary and handily won the general election.During his House tenure, which ran through 1974, Mr. Reid supported antipoverty and civil rights legislation and efforts to improve urban areas, curb housing discrimination and strengthen Social Security. He voted so often with the House’s Democratic majority that some conservative Republicans said the initials O. R. stood for “Occasionally Republican.”When a Westchester official spoke out against distributing federal surplus food to impoverished families in the county, saying it would be degrading to the recipients, Mr. Reid responded that when people are hungry, “pride doesn’t interfere with taking free food.”Though known for its affluent communities — including Purchase, where Mr. Reid then lived — his district also had growing pockets of poverty in New Rochelle, White Plains and Mount Vernon.“This is really a national district, with a real cross section of points of view. It’s not all affluence or all poverty,” Mr. Reid told The Times in 1970. “It can’t be all suburbia when it starts at the Bronx line. And the broader the base, the more hopeful it is, because the more different kinds of people are willing to work.”Mr. Reid repeatedly introduced bills to protect journalists from being compelled by federal courts and other governmental authorities to disclose confidential sources. The bills, which did not pass, were designed “to defend against possible repression of the news media,” he said.In his first three re-election runs, Mr. Reid had no opponent in the primaries and won the general elections by large margins, enhanced by the votes of many Democrats. But in 1970, with conservatives having gained strength among Westchester Republicans, he had a challenger for the nomination, whom he narrowly beat before again winning the general election easily.In 1972, Mr. Reid announced he was quitting the Republican Party and would seek re-election as a Democrat because, he said, the Republican Party had “moved to the right.” He acknowledged that the prospect of another stiff primary challenge — and the likelihood of opposition in the party to his running for statewide office — also factored into his decision. Now as a Democrat, he won re-election again.Two years later, rather than seek another House term, Mr. Reid entered the race for the Democratic nomination for governor. As he began to tour the state in 1973, he sharply criticized Governor Rockefeller’s “slavish allegiance” to President Nixon, a sharp break with his recent Republican loyalties.“We have had enough imperious paternalism from Albany and Washington,” he told Democrats in western New York in May 1973, months before officially announcing his candidacy. “Finally we must restore to Washington and Albany an administration that is capable of leading through unity, eschewing divisiveness — whether it be the Watergate and Southern strategy by Washington or one-man decisions in Albany.”Mr. Reid dropped out of the race when he failed to gain substantial support beyond Westchester. After Representative Hugh L. Carey of Brooklyn won the Democratic nomination and the 1974 general election, he appointed Mr. Reid as his commissioner of environmental conservation.But Mr. Reid resigned after 16 months because of differences with Mr. Carey over the handling of matters like General Electric’s discharge of the highly toxic chemical PCBs into the Hudson River. In 1983 he ran unsuccessfully for Westchester County executive.Ogden Rogers Reid was born in Manhattan on June 24, 1925, a son of Ogden Mills Reid and Helen Rogers Reid. Ogden graduated from the Buckley School in Manhattan and Deerfield Academy in Massachusetts.His father, who had taken over The Tribune in 1912 after the death of his father, Whitelaw Reid, presided over the 1924 acquisition of The Herald and the papers’ merger. After Ogden M. Reid died in 1947, his wife was The Herald Tribune’s president and dominant figure for several years.Ogden R. Reid served in the Army as a paratrooper in the 11th Airborne Division during World War II. In 1949 he graduated from Yale and married Mary Louise Stewart before joining The Herald Tribune, where he worked as a mail clerk, photographer and reporter before becoming vice president in 1953. Two years later, just 29 years old, he succeeded his older brother, also named Whitelaw Reid, as president and editor.Ogden Reid’s efforts to halt the paper’s falling circulation and financial slide were unavailing, and in 1958 the Reids sold a controlling interest to John Hay Whitney, the United States ambassador to Britain. But Mr. Whitney was no more successful, and in 1966 the paper was merged with others in trouble into an amalgam called The World Journal Tribune. It closed the next year.Besides his son David, Mr. Reid is survived by his wife, Mary Louise Reid; four other sons, Stewart, Michael, William and Ogden; a daughter, Elisabeth Taylor; and 19 grandchildren.Julia Jacobs contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Astead W. HerndonOLD FORGE, Pa. — The news came at 9:41 p.m. Tuesday: Frank Scavo III had lost. Again.Mr. Scavo, a perennial candidate running for the Pennsylvania Legislature on a platform of ending property taxes, was trounced by a Democratic newcomer, Bridget Malloy Kosierowski, the first woman to represent the Scranton-area district in decades. Initially, Mr. Scavo and about 30 supporters sounded conciliatory at their election night party, praising Ms. Kosierowski for a hard-fought campaign.But soon, after they downed the last pitcher of light beer, the discussion took a darker turn. Many of Mr. Scavo’s supporters were upset that he had drawn significant negative attention for his series of bigoted Facebook posts over the past four years, including ones that painted Muslims as “infidels” and others that promoted conspiracy theories like “Pizzagate,” the false story that Democrats ran a child sex trafficking operation out of a Washington pizza parlor.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]“Democrats are rats!” yelled Mr. Scavo’s wife, Caren, a local hair stylist who had started crying. She and others contended that he should have doubled down rather than apologize for the posts, as he did in the closing days of the race.“I’m furious,” said Laureen Cummings, an Old Forge resident who is also a county commissioner. “Our poor president is getting hammered and the same thing happened to Frank.”Another man interjected: “This is our tea party!” Big applause followed.Far from the power centers of Washington, the early 2020 primary states or the money-rich coastal cities that fund many national campaigns, a shift in the political winds is growing stronger.The Republican Party and its candidates, particularly in state and local campaigns, are increasingly being reshaped in President Trump’s image, adopting his laundry list of political opponents and his willingness to go to great lengths to spite them.Here, among Republicans in the northeastern Pennsylvania region that has suffered with the decline of the coal industry and the ravages of the opioid crisis, Mr. Trump’s language is endlessly repeated. He is not ensnared in several investigations of possible wrongdoing, but the victim of a “witch hunt.” The discovery of Mr. Scavo’s anti-Muslim Facebook posts was the work of the “fake news media.” The federal bureaucracy is the scheming “deep state.”But the most common reflection of Mr. Trump’s brand of grievance politics — and the reason Mr. Scavo’s loss was treated as an existential threat in that Old Forge banquet hall — was the pervasive belief that the country is being undermined by undeserving outsiders and the Democrats who represent them.In conversations with Mr. Scavo and his all-white supporters, this was not a race-blind anxiety, but a conscious fear around what they see as the replacement of traditional, white American culture. The message was constantly amplified by ominous reporting and commentary from conservative, pro-Trump media outlets.Thomas Bremer, a 67-year-old Vietnam War veteran and notary public who lives in nearby Olyphant, said America’s current course was akin to “a shaking roller coaster where no one knows what’s going to happen.”“I’m scared for our children because of what’s coming with socialism,” Mr. Bremer said. “We’re a big country, but we’re being swallowed by people coming in.”In recent weeks, prominent supporters of Mr. Trump, such as the Fox News personalities Jeanine Pirro and Tucker Carlson, were widely criticized for comments that questioned the patriotism of Muslims, demeaned black Americans, and warned that continued immigration could permanently disrupt America’s social order.But to many in Lackawanna County, which has long trended Democratic but only narrowly went for Hillary Clinton in 2016, such feelings are integral to the worldview of local Republicans. In Old Forge, the region’s most conservative bastion best known for the unique rectangular pizza slices it developed to serve to nearby miners, the sentiment is widely popular.The community’s mayor, Robert Legg, is currently embroiled in scandal after he posted on Facebook that the New York governor, Andrew M. Cuomo; the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi; and the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer, are treasonous and “should be shot.”Frank Scavo Jr., the candidate’s father, said: “I’m a son of immigrants from Poland, from Wales, from Italy, from Australia, but back then, there was assimilation happening. That’s the way it’s supposed to be.”Over a bowl of stuffed pepper soup, he cited a statistic that is notorious among the group: that nonwhite Americans were expected to outnumber whites in the coming decades. (The Census Bureau says by around 2045.) The older Mr. Scavo said America was a product of “Western civilization” and that the changes could threaten that legacy.Bob Bolus, a 76-year-old local businessman in the trucking industry who owns semitrailers covered with pro-Trump and anti-Hillary Clinton paraphernalia, said Mr. Trump was a champion for white interests. Mr. Bolus voted for Barack Obama in 2008, but said he became enraged when Mr. Obama weighed in on issues of racial bias among law enforcement.Mr. Obama “was prejudiced against white people,” Mr. Bolus said. “Trump has put the reins on the horse.”Like others, he mentioned a 2009 incident in which Mr. Obama took issue with the police conduct in the arrest of the Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates, who is black. Mr. Bolus said it was a turning point in his personal politics.The statements reflect the continuing push-and-pull among national Republicans, who have wrestled with how to deal with such overt appeals to white identity, particularly in the era of Mr. Trump.The Republican National Committee and its affiliates have long insisted that they remain a big tent, open to people of all races and backgrounds. However, some former Republican leaders, pollsters and former candidates say Mr. Trump has brought formerly fringe sentiments of explicit nativism and racism to the fore — and the result is a party that is growing more racially monolithic in an increasingly diverse age.During last year’s midterm elections, Republicans fielded a nearly all-white slate of candidates for governor. In the House, 90 percent of the Republican caucus is now white men, while about two-thirds of the Democratic caucus is not.But locally, Mr. Scavo’s supporters — many of whom vocally supported Mr. Trump’s re-election — are unsure such a dichotomy is a problem. Mr. Scavo said his fatal election mistake was taking the advice of outside Republican groups and not going with his gut, which would have focused less on eliminating taxes and promoting smaller government and instead prioritized more Trumpian issues such as the wall on the southern border and MS-13 gang violence.Across the country, other Republican state officials have gone further, including an Arizona state representative, David Stringer, who said this year that “there aren’t enough white kids to go around” in the state’s public schools.Daniel Squadron, the former New York state senator who leads Future Now, a national organization to help elect Democrats to state legislatures, said he cautioned people against thinking the wave of overt white identity politics is simply an offshoot of Mr. Trump.Mr. Squadron pointed out that, in the Pennsylvania race, Mr. Scavo’s controversial social media posts began before Mr. Trump’s candidacy. Other candidates in this mold, such as the Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, won support of local Republicans even though Mr. Trump had endorsed Mr. Moore’s opponent.“It’s not about Trump,” Mr. Squadron said. “It’s about a mind-set, a conspiracy theory, an ethnonationalism that Trump reflects.”“We should stop thinking of these races as ‘Trump-ized’ because they’re about ‘Pizzagate’ and racial and ethnic division and fear-mongering,” he said. “That’s just how races are run on the Republican side these days.”Mr. Scavo and his supporters largely agree. Mr. Scavo called himself “pro-wall, not pro-Trump,” and Mr. Bolus said he worried the Republican establishment fails to understand how fiercely Mr. Trump’s supporters are committed to their cultural ideals.Lynne Kokinda, 62, who volunteered daily for Mr. Scavo until Election Day, said she felt the country is at a tipping point. Gregory Griffin, a 64-year-old retired corrections officer, blamed Mr. Obama’s presidency, along with the news media, for “stirring up racial strife.”He took particular issue with the Black Lives Matter movement against police brutality.“It should be ‘police shoots citizen who resisted arrest or had a gun,’ but it’s usually portrayed as ‘white police officer shoots black male’ and that’s stirring the pot,” Mr. Griffin said. “That’s causing the black people to feel like black people are getting assassinated.”He cited two Democrats who are an increasing focus of Mr. Trump’s base — Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota. Carol Huddy, 71, said that preserving “our culture” was the era’s defining issue — regardless of whether Mr. Trump is in office.“We may be far away from the border, but they’re here and they’re coming here,” Ms. Huddy said, initially refusing to define “they.”Ten seconds passed.Twenty seconds passed.And then Ms. Huddy leaned in.“I’ll give you a hint,” she said, whispering, “They have names like Vasquez and Hernandez.”An earlier version of this article incorrectly described the region in Pennsylvania where a legislative election was held this week. It was in northeastern Pennsylvania, not in the southeastern part of the state, and it was in a region known for its coal industry, not steel.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe Senate Republican leader staged a sham vote on a Democratic climate change resolution, embarrassing only himself. By Michelle CottleMs. Cottle is a member of the editorial board.For those wondering if it was still possible for the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, to raise his cynicism game, Tuesday’s show vote on the Green New Deal supplied a resounding “yes.”Of all the pressing business Mr. McConnell could be tackling, he devoted precious floor time to the resolution introduced last month by the Democrats Ed Markey, the junior senator from Massachusetts, and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a House freshman from New York. A grand reimagining of America’s environmental and economic landscape, the Green New Deal is not a policy proposal. It is a statement of values — a nonbinding resolution that even its champions do not expect to become law. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has called it “a vision document.”Which is precisely why Mr. McConnell couldn’t resist it.The Senate majority leader, like so much of his party, has zero interest in climate change — or rather, he has no interest in pursuing policies to address what many regard as the defining crisis of our time. Mr. McConnell is, however, passionate about making life politically awkward for the opposition. With their base voters fired up about climate change, dozens of Democratic lawmakers have embraced the Green New Deal, including at least half a dozen 2020 presidential contenders. Even so, the resolution’s sweeping ambitions — built around a huge infrastructure investment and a shift to carbon-free energy — strike more than a few Democrats, especially moderates, as unrealistic and politically perilous.Republicans have been quick to mock the proposal, claiming that Democrats are poised to outlaw everything from cars to cows to airplanes. Mr. McConnell has been particularly vicious, slamming it as a “destructive socialist daydream.” Mr. McConnell sought to raise the stakes on Tuesday by forcing Democrats to cast a vote on the controversial measure —  exacerbating intraparty tensions in the process.The ploy fell flat. Most Democrats agreed ahead of time to go with a noncommittal vote of “present,” thus denying Mr. McConnell his desired drama and any meaningful vote count.Republicans are sure to continue harping on the Green New Deal as a way to paint Democrats as out-of-touch extremists. As Senator James Inhofe, a proud climate-change denier from Oklahoma, crowed, “It’s the gift that keeps on giving.”While Mr. Inhofe and President Trump may not believe in climate change, a growing majority of Americans care about it a great deal. In its latest survey, conducted in December, the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication found that just shy of 60 percent of Americans are either “alarmed” or “concerned” about the issue, with the number of those “alarmed” — 29 percent — having doubled since 2013 and risen eight points in just the past year. The numbers of “dismissive” and “doubtful” respondents have sunk to 9 percent each.Outside the bubble of the Republican base, Mr. McConnell’s political stunt may strike many people as shameless, coming as it did as the Midwest was being swallowed up by floodwaters. While the role that climate change plays in any particular natural disaster is complicated, there is widespread scientific agreement that the phenomenon is fueling a pattern of ever more extreme weather, from historic floods to hurricanes to droughts.The Green New Deal is by no means a fully baked proposal for combating climate change. But for all its flaws, it is a more promising first step than the Republican leaders’ chosen strategy of inaction and sneering denial.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byMitch McConnell’s show vote in the Senate on Tuesday rejected the plan, but Republicans may come to regret their mockery.By Sean McElweeMr. McElwee is one of the founders of Data for Progress.Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, brought the Green New Deal to a vote in the Senate on Tuesday. He defeated consideration of the plan 57-0, winning over three Democratic senators and one independent who caucuses with the Democrats. The rest of the Democratic caucus voted “present,” in an attempt to confound Mr. McConnell’s strategy, which was to tie down the Democratic Party to an ambitious proposal from its progressive wing. In his mind, this would clearly hurt the Democrats.President Trump thinks so too. “You look at this Green New Deal — it’s the most preposterous thing,” he told Fox Business last week “Now I don’t want to knock it too much right now because I really hope they keep going forward with it, frankly, because I think it’s going to be very easy to beat.”But is the Green New Deal really that toxic? My research suggests it’s not.To begin with, the idea of a Green New Deal did not come out of nowhere. For the past several years, environmental, labor and racial justice organizations have been working toward a new framework for climate policies aimed at ensuring that these policies address the needs of front-line communities, while ensuring that workers in fossil fuel industries still have economic opportunities. In Buffalo, local groups organized to keep the closure of a fossil fuel plant from harming the local economy. In California, groups pushed through SB 535, which dedicates funding from the state’s cap-and-trade program to low-income communities disproportionately affected by climate change. In New York, the Climate and Community Protection Act, a law that mandates emissions reductions and investments in affected communities is the product of a multiyear effort. These achievements all predate the Green New Deal, but they are rooted in a similar goal: to fight for clean air, clean water, decarbonization, racial justice and good jobs at the same time.One advantage of the Green New Deal framework is that it combines immediate concerns about pollution with more abstract discussions about carbon emissions. There are immense political benefits to this approach. Consider West Virginia, where the Republican establishment ran ads criticizing the coal baron Don Blankenship for contaminating local water. Pause for a moment: Among the most conservative voters in one of the most conservative states in the country, the winning message was clean water.My think tank, Data for Progress, commissioned a series of polls on the Green New Deal. Though Data for Progress is a liberal organization that is supportive of the Green New Deal, we don’t let that cloud our polling. We want accurate results, not convenient ones. (Our surveys show lower support for “Medicare for all” than those of most other organizations, for example.) We are also involved in the process: Last September, Data for Progress released a blueprint for the Green New Deal that has informed policy development.To get accurate results, we deploy several techniques. First, in our latest polling with Civis Analytics, a data science firm founded by alumni of the Obama campaign, we informed respondents that the Green New Deal is a Democratic proposal. Voters were told that the Green New Deal would “phase out the use of fossil fuels, with the government providing clean energy jobs for people who can’t find employment in the private sector. All jobs would pay at least $15 an hour, include health care benefits and collective bargaining rights.” Many commentators have argued that the Green New Deal would become unpopular when voters were informed of the cost, so we added that the plan would “be paid for by raising taxes on incomes over $200,000 dollars a year by 15 percentage points.”In addition, we provided arguments for and against the policy: “Democrats say this would improve the economy by giving people jobs, fight climate change and reduce pollution in the air and water. Republicans say this would cost many jobs in the energy sector, hurt the economy by raising taxes, and wouldn’t make much of a difference because of carbon emissions from China.” What we found suggests very little reason for Democrats to worry about backlash: Forty-six percent of likely voters supported the policy and 34 percent opposed it. (The rest were unsure.) Obama-Trump voters narrowly favored the policy (45 percent in support and 39 percent opposed), and moderates supported it 44 percent to 27 percent.Civis Analytics modeled two-way (that is, they excluded “don’t knows”) support in states and found that vulnerable Republican senators have reason to fear Mr. McConnell’s antics: In Colorado, Cory Gardner’s state, 60 percent of likely voters supported the Green New Deal, and in North Carolina, Thom Tillis’s state, 56 percent did. In Maine, where Susan Collins is likely to face a tough re-election battle, 57 percent of likely voters supported the Green New Deal and in Iowa, a wind-heavy state where Democrats hope to pick up a Senate seat, 54 percent did.We also asked YouGov Blue to survey the Green New Deal. Our YouGov survey asked, “Would you support or oppose a Green New Deal to end fossil fuel use in the United States and have the government create clean energy jobs? The plan would be paid for by raising taxes, including a tax on carbon emissions.” With this framing, 43 percent of registered voters expressed support, with 38 percent opposed and the rest unsure.Not all parts of the Green New Deal are popular. In our polling with Civis, a full shift to electric cars by 2030 and the phasing out of all power plants by 2035 were both underwater. And there is no doubt that some additional parts will lose support after facing a right-wing onslaught. On the other hand, policies like green jobs, drinking water infrastructure and reforestation were wildly popular. Clean water had net support in every state in the country, and reforestation is underwater in Wyoming only. In other words, there is no part in the country where at least some aspects of the Green New Deal will not be winning issues.New polling from 350 Action and Data for Progress conducted by YouGov Blue shows that rejecting fossil fuel money is popular (49 percent support their representatives refusing campaign contributions from fossil fuel PACs, with 19 percent opposed and the rest unsure). A “keep it in the ground” approach to energy policy that would phase out fossil fuel infrastructure in favor of renewable alternatives garnered even more support (56 percent in support, 26 percent opposed). “Climate policy might befuddle Democratic leadership, but the grass roots knows what’s up,” Julian Brave Noisecat, a policy analyst for 350 Action, told me.The core challenge the Green New Deal faces is not so much on the merits of the concept or even its political feasibility; it is that many of its Democratic supporters have met an aggressive and one-sided onslaught from the right with very little by way of response. According to data shared with The Times from Navigator, a progressive polling project, 37 percent of Republican viewers of Fox News had heard “a lot” about the Green New Deal, compared with 14 percent of all registered voters. Only 6 percent of non-Republican, non-Fox viewers had heard “a lot” about the Green New Deal, and 40 percent had heard nothing at all (compared with 14 percent of Republican viewers of Fox News).Across all registered voters who had heard about the Green New Deal, 32 percent reported seeing mostly negative coverage, 12 percent mostly positive, 42 percent a mix and the rest couldn’t recall. (Among Fox-viewing Republicans, it’s 68 percent, 4 percent, 24 percent and 4 percent.)We’re seeing in real time the impact of right-wing attacks. When asked simply, “Based on what you know, do you support or oppose the Green New Deal?,” 22 percent of respondents are in support, 29 percent are opposed and 49 percent are not sure. But 74 percent of Fox-viewing Republicans oppose the Green New Deal (65 percent strongly), and only 21 percent have not formed an opinion. Among people who are not Republicans and not Fox viewers, 32 percent support the Green New Deal, 8 percent oppose it and a whopping 61 percent have not formed an opinion. (Navigator polling shows that Fox News viewers are also far more likely to deny climate change.) Though many components of the Green New Deal are popular, the Republican propaganda machine has already reshaped the narrative, and it has done so with virtually no coordinated pushback from progressives, or certainly nowhere near enough, a worrying pattern. Tuesday’s Senate vote, where Democrats were urged by their leaders to take no stance at all and vote present, however expedient, is indicative of the broader trend — a defensive crouch from Democrats in response to an onslaught from the right.The Green New Deal is the future of the Democratic Party: Among likely Democratic primary voters in our Civis polling, 71 percent supported the Green New Deal and 14 percent opposed it. Democrats should not be afraid to embrace it, and Republicans who mess with it — despite the temporary success of their aggressive tactics — will do so at their own risk. Sean McElwee (@SeanMcElwee) is one of the founder of Data for Progress.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah Maslin Nir and Arielle DollingerA “job” as a food taster at a restaurant that paid $100,000 a year. The gift of a $7,000 watch. Free meals and subsidized tropical vacations.The fall of one of the most prominent officials in Nassau County’s legendary postwar political machine involved freebies, no-show jobs and bribes.On Friday, the former Nassau County executive, Edward P. Mangano, and his wife, Linda, were convicted of federal corruption charges after a second trial, becoming the most recent Republican power brokers in a party that once had viselike control on Long Island knocked out of public service for graft.The jury found him guilty of most of the charges against him, including bribery and wire fraud. He was acquitted on one count of extortion. His wife was found guilty on four counts, including making false statements and obstruction of justice.As the foreman declared Mr. Mangano guilty of the first count — conspiring to commit federal program bribery — the defendant threw his hands up and his wife brought her forehead to her clasped hands.When the foreman pronounced Ms. Mangano guilty a moment later, she put her head on her forearms on the table, as Mr. Mangano wrapped his arm around her. They are both 56 and face a maximum of 20 years in prison on the top charge.Outside the courthouse, Mr. Mangano said he would appeal. “I would not and could not be bribed by anyone, and I would not allow it,” he said. “We remain confident that we’ll be vindicated.”But Richard P. Donoghue, the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, said Mr. Mangano had betrayed the public trust. “When you work for the public, you work for the public and only the public,” he said, standing outside the courthouse. “Your reward is your paycheck, and the satisfaction of public service. And not jewelry, lavish vacations and no-show jobs.”Mr. Mangano was indicted in 2016 on charges of bribery, fraud, and conspiracy, along with the Oyster Bay town supervisor, John Venditto. The county executive was also charged with extortion, and prosecutors charged Linda Mangano with obstruction of justice and making false statements.“For Ed Mangano, public service was self-service,” the lead prosecutor, Catherine Mirabile, said during closing arguments at the latest trial. “From the moment he took office, he cashed in the power to benefit himself and his wife.”That assessment could have been made for many members of the Nassau County Republican machine in recent years, as corruption scandals have picked off its leaders, who time and time again have been shown in courtrooms to have peddled their influence to line their pockets, violating the law.It is a group that once wielded extraordinary influence and had a lock on elected offices for decades. But a culture of corruption has eviscerated Republican control of the county, and each new conviction has helped shift more power to Democrats, political strategists said.“When you are as powerful an electoral majority as the Nassau Republicans used to be, you tend to get a little arrogant, and you tend to believe that you can do things and not get caught,” said Steve Israel, a former Democratic congressman representing Long Island. “That has clearly caught up with the Republican machine in Nassau.”Today, Laura Curran, a Democrat, holds Mr. Mangano’s former position, and Democrats now make up a majority of party-affiliated voters in a county that once was the apogee of Republican control of America’s suburbs.Last November, Long Island was credited with returning the State Senate to the Democrats for the first time in decades, and Nassau County was pivotal in that effort, electing Democrats to three seats formerly held by Republicans.Part of the change is demographic. Lawrence Levy, the executive dean of the National Center for Suburban Studies at Hofstra University, said an influx of younger, minority and immigrant residents is one reason the city’s suburbs, once strongholds of Republican power, have begun to wobble, a trend that he said bears out countrywide.“Between demographic changes and ideological shifts, more and more suburban voters began pulling the lever for Democrats,” he said.The election of Donald J. Trump and the shift of the national Republican Party to a more populist base have also weakened the party in Nassau County, where the mostly middle-class population tends to be more moderate on social issues, he said, and, as a coastal region, is deeply concerned about environmental issues.But Republican corruption scandals have certainly contributed to the party’s decline. Dean G. Skelos, a Nassau Republican who rose to become the majority leader in the State Senate, was convicted on federal corruption charges last year. A jury found he had used his political clout to help a company that had funneled money to his son, Adam, who was also convicted in the scheme. They are both in prison.At the Manganos’ first trial, witnesses testified about Richard Walker, the former deputy county executive. Last year, federal prosecutors charged Mr. Walker with obstruction of justice and with lying to the F.B.I., alleging he tried to hide a $5,000 payment from a contractor. Mr. Walker, who is known as Rob, was Mr. Mangano’s top aide.Other Nassau Republicans facing criminal charges include Edward Ambrosino, a Hempstead Town Board councilman accused of evading $250,000 in taxes on his income, much of which he had earned as a lawyer for county authorities.Frederick Ippolito, an Oyster Bay town official, pleaded guilty in January 2016 to tax evasion. He had received $2 million in outside consulting fees while working as the town’s planning and development commissioner.Federal prosecutors said in court that the Manganos engaged in an influence-peddling scheme in which they used their political muscle on behalf of a restaurant owner and political donor to help him obtain loans and contracts with the county. Also charged was the supervisor of the town of Oyster Bay, Mr. Venditto, who was later acquitted at trial.In return, the restaurant owner, Harendra Singh, gave the Manganos a stream of gifts, including subsidized tropical vacations and free meals, prosecutors said.The couple’s first trial ended in a mistrial in May 2018 after the jury foreman told the judge he was unable to perform his duties. The retrial began in January in Federal District Court in Central Islip, Long Island.Mr. Mangano also received an expensive massage chair and a $7,300 Panerai Luminor watch from Mr. Singh, the government said. Ms. Mangano got a no-show job as a “food taster,” a position restaurant industry experts said was a fiction, for which she received about $450,000 over several years from the restaurateur.At the trial, Mr. Mangano’s lawyer, Kevin Keating, painted Mr. Singh as a “morally bankrupt sociopath” whose testimony could not be trusted.Mr. Singh was a familiar figure around Oyster Bay, the owner of dozens of businesses including a concession stand on Tobay Beach and the Woodlands restaurant. He drove a Maserati and used an email address that identified him as “the restaurant mogul.” He also donated to politicians including Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York.Prosecutors presented evidence that starting in 2010 Mr. Singh sought about $20 million in loans and turned to Mr. Mangano. Mr. Mangano used his influence to persuade Mr. Venditto to have the town of Oyster Bay back the loans, the prosecutors said.The government also alleged Mr. Mangano helped Mr. Singh receive $400,000 worth of contracts to provide bread to the county jail and food to emergency workers after Hurricane Sandy in 2012. In the end, the jury found Mr. Mangano not guilty of receiving bribes in connection with those contracts.Mr. Singh eventually pleaded guilty to bribing the two officials, and agreed to testify against them. In the course of his testimony, Mr. Singh revealed a scheme to funnel money in exchange for influence to New York City’s mayor, Bill de Blasio, and claimed Mr. de Blasio was aware of his efforts. Last year, Mr. Singh plead guilty to attempting to bribe the mayor.Mr. Venditto, the Oyster Bay supervisor, was also tried and found not guilty of all charges last May. He still faces state charges.An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to the Manganos’ first trial. Witnesses testified about Richard Walker, the former deputy executive of Nassau County; it is not the case that Mr. Walker himself testified.An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to the benefits prosecutors said that Edward P. Mangano received from a restaurateur. He was not accused of receiving free limousine rides.Arielle Dollinger reported from Central Islip, N.Y. Angela Macropoulos contributed reporting from there.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Senate Democrats next week may block legislation proposed by their Republican counterparts that would allocate billions of dollars for disaster recovery across the country, citing opposition from House Democrats and a push to add more aid to Puerto Rico’s slow efforts to recover from a pair of devastating hurricanes more than a year ago.Democrats in the Senate have said they would support companion disaster aid legislation passed by House Democrats this year, but on Thursday lawmakers left Washington for the weekend with the issue of money for Puerto Rico still unresolved.The impasse ahead of votes early next week has revived both a renewed legislative push to grant the island statehood — lawmakers introduced a measure on Thursday that would make Puerto Rico the 51st state — and criticism over President Trump’s stingy approach to the island’s recovery efforts.“I’ve taken better care of Puerto Rico than any man ever,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Thursday.Mr. Trump has offered his support for the Senate disaster relief package in individual conversations with senators, Republican aides say, but he has long castigated the island and its officials for their handling of the recovery efforts.“Why are we paying them $91 billion?” Mr. Trump asked in a closed Republican lunch on Tuesday, according to a person familiar with the exchange and later confirmed by a lawmaker who was present. “For $91 billion, we can buy Puerto Rico four times over.”It is not clear where the $91 billion figure came from.Puerto Rican leaders have pushed back. Gov. Ricardo Rosselló told CNN on Thursday that “if the bully gets close, I’ll punch the bully in the mouth.”And Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, told members in a closed lunch on Thursday that they needed to defend the island, which as a United States territory does not have voting representation, according to a person familiar with the meeting.The measure would send about $14 billion in relief across a half-dozen states and territories. House lawmakers have warned that if the bill passes the Senate without more money for Puerto Rico, it will not make it through the lower chamber, and another round of negotiations would be needed before any relief could be disbursed.Senate Democrats are pushing three alternatives: passing the House version of the bill, entering into bipartisan negotiations with the House or adding an amendment to the Senate measure that would allow more aid for Puerto Rico.“The people of Puerto Rico are suffering,” Mr. Schumer said in a speech on the Senate floor. “They have received a sliver of the funding they need. It’s hard to fathom the depths of cruelty that it takes for the president to treat the people of Puerto Rico this way.”Despite the impasse, lawmakers voiced optimism that a resolution was still possible ahead of the votes, even as Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, invoked procedural rules this week that would limit how amendments can be added to the legislation.“We’re stalled right now,” said Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “There are a lot of demands for Puerto Rico. We are trying to get over a few hurdles. I think we’ll get there, but we are not there yet.”Mr. Shelby, who was standing near the elevators outside the Senate chamber, then linked arms with Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the committee’s ranking Democrat.“If anyone can get it done, Dick and I will,” Mr. Leahy said.Congress has failed to reach a consensus on disaster aid since December, when House members tried to use it as a sweetener to ease passage of legislation to keep the government open. That measure failed to pass the Senate because it also funded Mr. Trump’s border wall. While the House passed a disaster relief package in January, it was ultimately left off the bipartisan compromise measure that reopened the government and has not been taken up by the Senate.The senators involved with the bill, including Senators David Perdue and Johnny Isakson of Georgia, have been working on it for close to six months, regularly speaking to Mr. Trump about it.Republican aides familiar with the negotiations said that because the House legislation was passed in January, it does not have roughly $2 billion in aid for Midwestern states devastated by floods and tornadoes this month. And they believed that Democratic priorities — including about $610 million for nutrition assistance for Puerto Rico — were accommodated in the bill. (A House Democratic aide familiar with the negotiations said that the measure could be amended to accommodate such a request.)Senators who represent states still struggling to recover from hurricanes, wildfires and other natural disasters are growing frustrated. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, railed on the Senate floor on Thursday about the “bureaucratic red tape” delaying funds for Texas.Senator Rick Scott, Republican of Florida and a chief proponent of the bill, said, “I’m sick and tired of this.”“They’re not using this because they care about Puerto Rico,” Mr. Scott said of the Democrats. “They’re using this to block the whole thing.”Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWhere is the Republican — or Democrat — willing to break with the base?By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistIn 1992, recording artist Lisa Williamson, better known as Sister Souljah, opined, “If black people kill black people every day, why not have a week and kill white people?” She also said, “If there are any good white people, I haven’t met them.”Sensing a political opportunity, Bill Clinton went before Jesse Jackson’s Rainbow Coalition to rebuke Williamson. “If you took the words ‘white’ and ‘black,’ and you reversed them,” the Arkansas governor said, “you might think David Duke was giving that speech.”Jackson was furious. But Americans were reassured that Clinton really was a new kind of Democrat, not in thrall to the party’s left wing. He was elected president later that year.American politics could use another Sister Souljah moment. Two, in fact.The obvious need is among Republicans. In the last week, Donald Trump has renewed his campaign of insult against John McCain, proving that the lowest place on earth isn’t the Mariana Trench — it’s the president’s soul. Yet with the notable exception of Mitt Romney, no Republican of national stature has done much more than clear his throat by way of objection, as if the president were no worse than a bumptious uncle passing gas at a Thanksgiving table.It won’t do. What Trump said wasn’t rude. It was grotesque. It didn’t just besmirch the memory of the honored dead. It assaulted the feelings of the grieving living. It didn’t just transgress bounds of ordinary decency. It blew a hole (another one) in our already shattered expectations of presidential behavior. It showed that Trump isn’t merely unsuited to leadership. He’s unfitted for manhood.This would be the moment for a rising Republican leader — Nikki Haley comes to mind — to say, in clear and categorical terms, that is not us. She could give a speech in Sedona, Ariz., noting how John McCain’s values represented the Republican Party at its best: courage and freedom; faith and forgiveness; individualism and engagement.Such a Sister Souljah moment won’t derail Trump’s renomination. It may even harm the immediate political viability of whoever does the denouncing. But it will send a signal, essential for the party’s long-term health, that a future Republican president will restore honor and dignity to the White House.Democrats, too, desperately need such a moment if they are serious about winning the election next year.John Hickenlooper had his chance earlier this month on “Morning Joe” to describe himself, based on his business record, as a “proud capitalist.” He flubbed it. Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker had a chance to repudiate Representative Ilhan Omar’s anti-Semitism forcefully and without equivocation, just as Nancy Pelosi did. They flubbed it. Kamala Harris had a chance to break out beyond her deep-blue base by opposing the Green New Deal in the name of fiscal responsibility. She flubbed it. Kirsten Gillibrand could have embraced her centrist record as a Blue Dog Democrat rather than run away from it. She’s flubbed it. Beto O’Rourke, Julian Castro and Pete Buttigieg could have bucked the charge that Democrats are becoming an anti-Israel party by showing up at next week’s Aipac conference. They’ve flubbed it.There’s still time. Trump’s executive order Thursday on campus free speech could provide another opportunity for a Democrat to break with progressive orthodoxy.Step 1: Criticize the order as an example of federal government overreach to which conservatives usually object. Step 2: Acknowledge that there is a serious problem on the left when it comes to speech, and that protecting the speech rights of all Americans is an irreducible and non-negotiable principle of liberalism. Step 3: Pledge that as president you will restore America’s moral leadership when it comes to defending press freedom, ideological diversity and individual conscience.How about it, Joe Biden?The chances of this happening seem slim. And the blowback a candidate would face from the progressive social-media furies would be great.But the point of a Sister Souljah moment isn’t to ingratiate a candidate to the party base. It’s to demonstrate independence and nerve. And furnish evidence that the candidate is of the center, not the fringe. And that he or she can appeal beyond the Democratic base to Americans who think capitalism is mainly good, anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism are profoundly bad, and the intellectual commissars of the woke left are intolerant bores.Donald Trump plans to win re-election on the strength of a fanatically devoted base, a prosperous economy, a Mueller report that finds no smoking gun and a Democratic Party that increasingly seems to find nothing wrong with the word “socialism.” It’s not a bad theory of the race, especially if there isn’t a Democrat willing to stand up and prove him wrong.As for the rest of the Republican Party, they believe they can squeak to re-election with a president who extols scoundrels, defames heroes, lies without compunction, holds to no higher principle than his personal gratification and thinks he can always get away with it, because he always does.Is there no Republican willing to stand up to all this, lest Trump be proven right?The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House on Tuesday failed to overturn President Trump’s first veto, leaving the declaration of a national emergency at the southwestern border intact despite the bipartisan passage of a resolution attempting to nullify the president’s circumvention of Congress to fund his border wall.Despite concerns about the constitutional separation of powers and the effect of Mr. Trump’s move on local military projects, the 248-to-181 vote fell short of the two-thirds majority needed to kill the national emergency declaration.Republicans in both chambers had joined Democrats in passing the resolution disapproving his national emergency just weeks ago, voicing discomfort over the president’s intent to divert funding to the construction of a border wall without congressional approval. Mr. Trump, issuing the first veto of his administration, had called the resolution “dangerous,” “reckless,” and a “vote against reality.”But only 14 Republicans ultimately joined House Democrats in voting to override the veto, one more than the 13 who voted for the resolution of disapproval a month ago. (Representative John Katko, Republican of New York, had said he would support the measure, but missed the earlier vote.)Mr. Trump then thanked House Republicans “for sticking together.” “Today’s vote simply reaffirms Congressional Democrats are the party of Open Borders, Drugs and Crime!” he wrote on Twitter.Democrats had hoped that the publication of all the military construction projects that could see funding delays as Mr. Trump pursued wall money would sway their Republican colleagues. They framed the vote around both lofty constitutional principles and parochial home-district matters.“Even when the legislative branch disagrees with the executive, we respect the office the president holds and it’s his right to veto legislation,” said Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, speaking on the floor ahead of the vote.“But when those decisions violate the Constitution,” she added, “then that must be stopped.”House Republican leaders, however, derided the vote as political gamesmanship and a waste of time.Democratic lawmakers and aides say they have not ruled out the possibility of reintroducing the resolution in six months, and they could use other legislative options to block the president’s effort to take as much as $3.6 billion in military construction funds for the wall.The House vote on Tuesday on ending Trump’s national emergency.For now, the political fight over Mr. Trump’s national emergency declaration shifts to the courts, where a number of states and organizations have joined lawsuits challenging the legal merits of the order. Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, warned in a statement that the 20 states involved in legal action “are ready to fight long and hard to stop his fabricated emergency in its tracks.”The judicial machinations will most likely prevent the president and Pentagon officials from immediately tapping military funds for border wall construction, and the Defense Department has yet to prepare a final list of what projects could have funding delays. It is unclear when the list will be available.In the interim, the Pentagon has taken the first steps to begin diverting money from other Defense Department funds toward constructing fencing at the border. On Monday, Patrick M. Shanahan, the acting defense secretary, authorized the transfer of up to $1 billion from military personnel funding toward the construction of 57 miles of border fencing, improving roads and adding lighting in Yuma, Ariz., and El Paso, according to a letter sent to the Department of Homeland Security.Military officials have said that they do not need congressional approval for such an action. But across Capitol Hill on Tuesday, lawmakers pressed Pentagon officials about the potential effect on military construction and the merits of a wall at the southwestern border.“To look at the Pentagon as a piggy bank, slush fund, where you can grab money for something when you need it really undermines the credibility of the entire D.O.D. budget,” said Representative Adam Smith of Washington, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.At a hearing on Tuesday, Mr. Smith warned Mr. Shanahan and General Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that Congress would respond to the reallocation of funds without congressional approval by curtailing the privilege of such reallocations in the spending bills for the next fiscal year.Mr. Shanahan, testifying before the committee for the first time as acting head of the Defense Department, acknowledged the “complexities of the southwest border situation” and said officials understood “significant downsides of losing what amounts to a privilege.”“Those risks were weighed, and given the legal order from the commander-in-chief,” Mr. Shanahan said. “We are executing on that order.”In a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, Senator Gary Peters, Democrat of Michigan, also pressed Army officials on whether readiness and modernization should be prioritized over security at the southwestern border.“It is not for me to say one is more important than the other relative to the whole national security of the United States,” said Gen. Mark A. Milley, the Army chief of staff.Thomas Gibbons-Neff contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Eileen SullivanWASHINGTON — President Trump said on Tuesday that he was “never a fan” of the late Senator John McCain, “and I never will be.”The president’s blunt remarks came in response to a reporter’s question about his recent attacks on the Republican war hero who represented Arizona, and who died last year of brain cancer.On Tuesday, the focus of Mr. Trump’s ire was Mr. McCain’s historic vote on health care in 2017, when he went against his own party and opposed a Republican measure to repeal the Affordable Care Act.“He campaigned on repealing and replacing Obamacare for years, and then he got to a vote and he said thumbs down,” Mr. Trump said on Tuesday after taking reporters’ questions alongside the president of Brazil, who was at the White House for an official visit. “Our country would have saved a trillion dollars and we would have had great health care.”Over the weekend, however, Mr. Trump’s attacks on Mr. McCain largely focused on the Russia investigation. Mr. Trump derided Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee for president in 2008, for sharing with the F.B.I. a copy of a salacious and uncorroborated dossier on the Trump campaign’s dealings with Russia, though Mr. Trump falsely claimed Mr. McCain had shared it with the agency before the election. Mr. Trump also falsely said Mr. McCain was last in his class at the Naval Academy. In fact, Mr. McCain was fifth from the bottom and often mocked himself for it.Mr. McCain’s daughter, Meghan McCain, hit back at Mr. Trump on Saturday and said in a Twitter post, “No one will ever love you the way they loved my father.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — House Democrats are poised this week to adopt legislation requiring background checks for all gun purchasers, the first major expansion of gun control laws in a quarter century and the opening salvo in a broader drive to address an issue that once sharply divided the party.In back-to-back votes, the House will take up two separate background check measures. On Wednesday it will consider the Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which would require background checks for all firearm sales, including those sold at gun shows and online. On Thursday it will turn to the Enhanced Background Checks Act, which would extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks.The action in the House reflects dramatic changes in the political climate over guns that culminated with last year’s midterm elections. A string of mass shootings, coupled with student-led activism after last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., produced a wave of Democratic candidates — including some from Republican-leaning districts — who ran and won while calling for limits on access to guns.“It’s a real moment for the nation,” said one of those Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, who began advocating for gun control after her 17-year-old son, Jordan Davis, was shot dead in 2012. “We’re at a critical mass now where families are just saying they’ve had enough.”Both measures face dim prospects in the Republican-controlled Senate. Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said Tuesday it was “unlikely” the Senate would take them up.But this week’s House action is still significant. The last time Congress passed major gun control legislation was 1994, when an assault weapons ban was enacted, along with the so-called Brady Bill, which required background checks on most gun sales.Democrats were punished roundly at the polls that year, with Republicans taking control of Congress and not relinquishing it for 12 years. For years afterward, Democrats were skittish about taking up gun-related bills.The assault weapons ban expired in 2004, when Congress was under Republican control. When Democrats held the House from 2007 to 2011, no gun legislation was passed.“There are still differences within our party as to how far we want to go,” Representative Steny D. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic leader, told reporters on Tuesday. But Mr. Hoyer said he is convinced that the two bills being voted on this week have the support of the “overwhelming majority of the American people.”Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, praised House Democrats for prioritizing the measures, noting that just a year ago, the Republican-controlled House tried — but failed — to pass legislation that would have required states to recognize concealed weapons permits issued in other states, effectively creating a national law allowing concealed weapons. That bill is a high priority for the National Rifle Association.“Now we’re having the opposite conversation, and I do think that demonstrates how quickly this shift has happened,” Ms. Lloyd said. “It is a paradigm shift from where we were even 18 months ago.”House Republicans, however, have been scathing in their criticism of the bills.“This bill turns law-abiding citizens into criminals and it’s one more step toward federalized gun registration and ultimately gun confiscation,” said Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, who was shot in the hip and gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team practicing in Virginia.Republicans including Mr. Scalise argue that expanding background checks would not have prevented many of the mass shootings that have garnered public attention in recent years. Most of those massacres were carried out with guns purchased legally by gunmen who passed background checks.The bills to expand background checks are the first in what could be a series of measures to address gun violence, said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads a congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. Mr. Thompson said the group has a “pretty aggressive schedule” and is bringing in experts to advise on what will reduce gun violence.Ms. McBath, a task force member, said the group is also looking at measures to reduce children’s access to guns, and also “red flag laws” that give authorities or household members the ability to seek court orders that would prohibit gun purchases by those deemed a risk to themselves or others.Congress did pass a modest gun-related bill last year, the so-called Fix Nics Act, which required federal agencies and states to do a better job of reporting criminal offenses and other information into the national instant check system, or Nics. And since the Parkland massacre, gun safety advocates have made great strides outside the capital; in 2018, legislators in 26 states and the District of Columbia passed 67 gun safety measures, according to a recent analysis by the Giffords Law Center.The last time Congress considered major gun safety legislation was in 2013, after the massacre that killed 20 children and six adults at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.With survivors of mass shootings looking down from the gallery — and amid cries of “Shame on you!” — the Senate at that time fell short of the 60 votes required to break a filibuster on a bipartisan bill similar to the measure the House will take up Wednesday. That bill’s sponsors, Senators Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, did not sound optimistic on Tuesday about the prospects for reviving it.“I need some help,” Mr. Manchin said. “I need some Republican help.”Mr. Toomey said he has been “working to try to find where we could get to consensus.” But, he added, “It’s looking like it’s an uphill battle to get 60 votes.”Thursday marks the 25th anniversary of the Brady Bill, named for James. S. Brady, the White House press secretary injured during an assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan in 1981. That bill took more than six years and seven votes to pass, according to Kris Brown, president of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, which this week is rebranding itself under the name “Brady.” But it did not address gun show sales or sales over the internet, which have exploded since then.“For us at Brady, it’s a really meaningful and frankly almost emotional moment,” Ms. Brown said, referring to the coming House votes.Under federal law, if a gun consumer does not pass a background check instantly, the F.B.I. has three business days to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If they are unable to do so, on the fourth day, the purchaser can return to the dealer and buy a gun.That system has given rise to the so-called Charleston loophole, which allowed Dylann Roof, the white supremacist who killed nine people at a historically black church in Charleston, South Carolina, in 2015, to purchase a .45-caliber handgun even though he had previously admitted to drug possession, which should have barred him from obtaining the weapon. The enhanced background checks bill, sponsored by Representative Jim Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip, would give the F.B.I. 10 days to complete its determination.“You’ve got a gun safety majority that is there because of the advocacy and the leadership of the young people from Stoneman Douglas who energized their peers both in Florida and around the country,” said Representative Ted Deutsch, Democrat of Florida, who represents Parkland. “They have helped deliver the gun safety majority in the House. That’s the importance of this moment.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House this week is set to pass the first major gun control legislation in over two decades, with Democratic lawmakers expected to approve two measures strengthening background checks for all firearms sales.The last time the House put high-profile legislation expanding gun control laws to a vote was in 1994, when it passed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban and made it illegal to manufacture a number of semiautomatic weapons for civilian use. That legislation expired after a decade and was not renewed by a Republican-controlled Congress.But riding a new wave of urgency after a series of mass shootings — and the activism inspired by the school massacre in Parkland, Fla., last February in which 17 students and teachers were killed — House Democrats have pledged to take meaningful action on the issue, beginning with the twin bills.Here’s what you need to know about the measures and their odds in the Senate.The Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which the House will take up on Wednesday, requires universal background checks, closing a loophole for buyers at gun shows and online. The legislation, sponsored by Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, also prohibits firearms transfers by a person who is not a licensed dealer. There are a number of exceptions, though, such as a family member giving a firearm as a gift, or lending a gun to someone in imminent danger.The second piece of legislation, the Enhanced Background Checks Act, will be voted on Thursday. Sponsored by Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip, the bill seeks to extend the initial background check review period to 10 days from three.Under federal law, the F.B.I. has three business days to perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If it is unable to do so, on the fourth day, the customer can return to the dealer and buy a gun. That loophole allowed Dylann S. Roof, the man who killed nine people at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, to purchase a .45-caliber handgun even though he had previously admitted to drug possession, which should have barred him from legally obtaining the weapon.A vast majority of guns used in 19 recent mass shootings — including those in Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; and Las Vegas — were bought legally and after the gunman passed a federal background check. At least nine attackers had criminal histories or documented mental health problems that did not prevent them from obtaining their weapons.“The new gun control restrictions currently being considered by the Democratic majority in H.R. 8 would not have prevented my shooting,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said of the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. Mr. Scalise was gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team while they were practicing in Virginia.But gun control advocates have praised the measures as a meaningful step toward change, and described the legislation as a necessary foundation for future work. Last year, the existing background check system identified and denied 88,000 gun sales to prohibited buyers including criminals and domestic abusers, according to Mr. Thompson’s office — but those same people are currently able to make purchases at gun shows or online.“We have fairly weak gun laws and we have loopholes that make it easy to have the levels of gun violence that we have right now, and we certainly have to do more to address it,” said Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “But it is a critical first step.”The bills introduced by House Democrats closely mirror the last major attempt in the Senate to pass a gun control measure. Efforts led by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, to require background checks at gun shows and online failed in the Democratic-led Senate in 2013 and again in the Republican-led Senate in 2015.Otherwise, in the last two decades, most firearms legislation taken up by Congress has aimed to relax gun laws, such as attempts in the House and Senate to pass a concealed-carry reciprocity law allowing a person permitted to carry a concealed weapon in one state to carry it in every state.Despite the praise the legislation has received, it faces dim prospects in the Republican-controlled Senate. Only two Republicans who backed the Toomey-Manchin legislation — Mr. Toomey and Senator Susan Collins of Maine — are still serving in the chamber. And Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 2 Republican, said on Tuesday that the Senate would not take up the bills.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Timothy Williams and Alan BlinderPhil Bryant, the Republican governor of Mississippi, on Thursday signed a bill largely banning abortions once doctors can detect a trace of a fetal heartbeat with an ultrasound, a milestone that can come as early as six weeks into pregnancy.Mississippi is only the latest state to press for the strict abortion limit — the sort that has already been passed and then blocked in the courts in states including Kentucky, which approved it earlier this month, and Iowa, where a law passed last year was struck down by a state court in January. About 10 other states also are debating bills to ban abortions once fetal heartbeats are found, a point at which some women and girls are not yet aware that they are pregnant.In a signing ceremony in Jackson on Thursday, Mr. Bryant described a heartbeat as “the universal hallmark of life since man’s very beginning.””We’re going to try to protect that child whenever we can,” said Mr. Bryant, who is barred by term limits from seeking another term as governor. “We think that this is showing the profound respect and desire of Mississippians to protect the sanctity of that very unborn life whenever possible.”Supporters of abortion rights said Thursday that they would sue to block the new Mississippi law, which will take effect in July unless a court intervenes.“This ban is one of the most restrictive abortion bans signed into law, and we will take Mississippi to court to make sure it never takes effect,” said Hillary Schneller, staff attorney at the Center for Reproductive Rights, an advocacy group based in New York.Lt. Gov. Tate Reeves, a Republican and a candidate to succeed Mr. Bryant, said that Mississippi would be unafraid to spend money to defend the law, which the Senate approved without debate on Tuesday.“There have been threats of lawsuits, and I’m sure that’s going to happen, and that’s O.K.,” Mr. Reeves said. “I will put my record of fiscal responsibility up against anyone in this building today, and anyone that’s has ever stood in this building before, and I have absolutely no problem supporting strongly whatever it costs to defend this lawsuit because I care about unborn children.”While fetal heartbeat proposals are not new, momentum around them has grown significantly during this year’s legislative sessions in Republican-controlled state capitals.The measures clash with Supreme Court decisions that have recognized a woman’s right to an abortion until a fetus is viable outside the womb, usually around 24 weeks into pregnancy. And opponents of abortion say that is part of the intent: To land a new case before the current Supreme Court in hopes of setting sharper limits or even an outright ban. The confirmation of Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh — and the potential shifting of the court’s direction — has provoked new urgency among critics of abortion.“I would be proud if it’s Kentucky that takes it all the way up to the Supreme Court and we challenge Roe v. Wade,” Damon Thayer, the Republican majority leader of the Kentucky Senate, told reporters in January as state lawmakers considered a fetal heartbeat measure. “That would be absolutely the pinnacle of my career in the Legislature.”Florida, Missouri, Ohio, Tennessee and Texas are among the states expected to approve fetal heartbeat measures this year.In Georgia, where the House approved such a bill this month, the issue stirred a personal and passionate debate.“A child in the womb should be worthy of full legal protection,” said Representative Ed Setzler, a Republican who sponsored the measure, which has already won the backing of Gov. Brian Kemp.Representative Erica Thomas, a Democrat, disagreed.“No one is more appreciative of life at this point than I am: In August, I will have the privilege to bring beautiful life to this earth,” she said “But that decision was my husband and I’s decision to make, and no one in this chamber had the right to make that choice for me and my family.”In other states, lawmakers opposed to abortion are taking different tacks.Efforts in several states this year, including Oklahoma, seek to add abortion to felony homicide laws, potentially sending doctors to prison.And a relatively new strategy in limiting abortions would ban the procedure if the reason for it was Down syndrome. Utah, Arkansas, Missouri and Kentucky are considering such bills this year, which also prohibit abortions based on gender, race or color. Kentucky’s law, signed Tuesday by Gov. Matt Bevin, was temporarily blocked by a federal court judge the next day.Ohio, Tennessee and several other states are also considering so-called trigger laws, which would immediately ban abortions if Roe v. Wade was overturned. Arkansas approved a trigger law last month.Restricting the amount of time during a pregnancy that women have to obtain a legal abortion has long been a primary strategy of abortion opponents, though the efforts have grown more and more stringent over time.Arkansas, which five years ago saw a court strike down its ban on abortions after 12 weeks if a heartbeat could be detected, this month narrowed the period, from 20 weeks to 18 weeks, in which abortions are permitted under state law. Asa Hutchinson, the state’s Republican governor, signed the bill into law this month.Many of the Republican lawmakers who dominate state government in Arkansas have voted for rules tightening abortion rights this legislative session, but Dan Douglas, a Republican member of the House who described himself as “anti-abortion,” startled colleagues with the story of one of his nieces, who became pregnant last year.Mr. Douglas said his niece had been told the fetus had no bladder or functional kidneys.“The doctor explained to her that she could carry the child throughout the remainder of the gestation, the entire nine months, and deliver that baby alive into this world,” he said. “But once it got here, once it was delivered, it would live two to three days, and those two to three days would be miserable, excruciating, agonizing for that baby and for that mother.”He added: “Who are we to sit in judgment of their decision?”Mississippi, which has a single abortion clinic, often takes some of the country’s most aggressive stands against abortion rights. In November, a federal judge blocked a state law that would have banned abortions after 15 weeks.In the ruling, which is being appealed, the judge wrote that the Mississippi Legislature “chose to pass a law it knew was unconstitutional to endorse a decades-long campaign, fueled by national interest groups, to ask the Supreme Court to overturn Roe v. Wade.”If the courts ultimately uphold Mississippi’s 15-week ban, a similar law will take effect in Louisiana.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jonathan MartinWASHINGTON — The Republican-controlled Virginia House of Delegates announced Friday that it would hold hearings on the sexual assault claims against Lt. Gov. Justin E. Fairfax, inviting Mr. Fairfax and his two accusers to publicly testify about one of the scandals that has upended the state’s government.Speaking on the House floor a day before the end of Virginia’s annual legislative session, Delegate Robert B. Bell, the chairman of the Courts of Justice Committee, said the Legislature had “a duty to investigate” the allegations made by Dr. Vanessa Tyson and Meredith Watson against Mr. Fairfax, a Democrat. Mr. Fairfax emphatically denies that he assaulted either woman.Mr. Bell did not say when the committee would hold the hearing, and advisers to House Speaker Kirk Cox indicated that for now they wanted only to create a forum for all parties to be heard and were not yet pursuing impeachment.The House Democratic caucus, which like most of Virginia’s elected leadership has called for Mr. Fairfax’s resignation, criticized Mr. Bell for not offering details about the hearings and accused Republicans of seeking political gains from the claims against Mr. Fairfax.[Read more about the political ascent of Mr. Fairfax, and the allegations against him.]“The Speaker and House Republicans are attempting to politicize these serious, criminal allegations,” said Kathryn Gilley, a spokeswoman for the caucus. “All parties involved deserve better.”But less than two hours after Mr. Bell’s announcement, it became clear that the crisis enveloping Virginia Democrats may only deepen: Ms. Watson’s lawyer said her client would testify — and suggested she may bring other parties to the State Capitol for what would most likely be a high-profile forum.“It is our understanding that the hearing will be public and televised and that Ms. Watson, Dr. Tyson and Lieutenant Governor Fairfax will all testify under oath and be subject to the same rules and requirements, including our right to present witnesses and corroborators,” said Nancy Erika Smith, the lawyer.However, Dr. Tyson’s lawyers indicated that while she is willing to testify in public, she is uneasy about coming forward in what they called a “highly charged political environment.”The lawyers, Debra Katz and Lisa Banks, urged, “the leaders on both sides of the aisle in Virginia to establish a bipartisan path forward that provides for due process for everyone involved and facilitates a thorough examination of the allegations.”In a statement, Mr. Fairfax’s spokeswoman did not indicate whether he would testify but accused Republicans of “engaging in political theater” and said they were seeking partisan gain from the accusations.“House Republicans want to pursue this historically unprecedented course of action because the accused is a popularly elected Democrat,” said Lauren Burke, Mr. Fairfax’s spokeswoman.The sexual assault claims, Ms. Burke said, should be taken up by “law enforcement professionals.”House Republicans framed their decision to move forward with the hearings as a response to the requests of the two accusers, who have been urging the Legislature to investigate and have repeatedly stated their willingness to testify. But the inquiry could also make the election-year quandary Virginia Democrats find themselves in even more painful.The specter of public hearings into the allegations against Mr. Fairfax, who is black, would not only revive a scandal that had started to quiet, it would also serve as a reminder that Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark Herring, who are white, have refused to resign after admitting they wore blackface in their youth. All 140 seats in the Virginia General Assembly are on the ballot in November and Republicans are clinging to narrow majorities in both chambers.[Read more about how Mr. Northam is trying to repair his relationship with black Virginians.] House Republicans and Democrats had met earlier in the week to discuss crafting a bipartisan response, but by Thursday were criticizing one another over how to deal with the claims against Mr. Fairfax.The Republicans had sought to create a 10-person investigative panel, equally divided between parties, to examine Ms. Watson’s claim that Mr. Fairfax raped her in 2000, when they were Duke University students, and Dr. Tyson’s accusation that he sexually assaulted her during the 2004 Democratic convention in Boston.But Democrats were uneasy about creating a forum they said would politicize the accusations and indicated they would prefer that law enforcement handle the matter.That has been the posture of the party’s House caucus since black lawmakers objected to an effort earlier this month by a white Democrat to introduce articles of impeachment against Mr. Fairfax after he refused to resign following the second accusation.Some Democratic lawmakers grumbled privately that, once the party backed away from the impeachment inquiry, it would be only a matter of time before Republicans stepped forward to hold hearings.But after Mr. Bell spoke, one black lawmaker stood up on the floor and said her colleagues should consider what would, and would not, come from convening a legislative inquiry.“What happens after the hearings?” Delegate Lashrecse Aird asked. “We can offer no conviction, we can offer no real action, and we would have taken all parties involved through a political exercise that in the end can actually cause more harm than good, and could have a chilling effect for others seeking justice.”If Mr. Fairfax is ultimately convicted, Ms. Aird continued, “You won’t need to hold hearings, form a committee or call for impeachment because the black women in this body would be the very first of who would be filing articles of impeachment.”If Mr. Fairfax resigns, there would most likely be a special election to replace him this fall. But he has hired a legal team, called for the F.B.I. to investigate the claims and steadfastly refused to quit.Polls this week showed that Virginia voters are divided along racial lines about whether the lieutenant governor should quit, with a large plurality of African-Americans indicating they think he should remain in office and nearly as many whites believing he should step down.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]O.K., brace yourself. We might just be having a moment in politics this week.No, I’m not talking about Beto O’Rourke, the telegenic former Texas congressman whose newly launched presidential campaign prompted wall-to-wall media coverage today.I’m talking about what’s been happening in Congress.A quick catch-up: Today, a dozen Republicans in the Senate voted with Democrats to reject President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency to secure funding for his border wall. Their rebuke comes just hours after the House — in an overwhelming, bipartisan, 420-0 vote — backed a resolution urging the Justice Department to publicly release the special counsel’s report on Russian interference in the 2016 election. And it comes a day after the Senate voted to end support for the Saudi-led war in Yemen, an effort seen as a reproach of the president’s defense of the kingdom after the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi.Practically, this all means very little. The House resolution cannot force the Justice Department to release more of the report. And Mr. Trump has made it clear that he will veto the other two measures — a step his opponents don’t have the numbers to override in the Senate.But politically, the trifecta of rejections tells us that Mr. Trump’s grip on congressional Republicans may be loosening. The political ground may be ever so slightly shifting — and with it, the control Mr. Trump has over his party.As we’ve written before, the president remains overwhelmingly popular with his base. There is no groundswell of anti-Trump sentiment in the Republican Party. Two of the most vulnerable Republican senators, Thom Tillis of North Carolina and Cory Gardner of Colorado, stuck with the president. (Mr. Tillis flipped his position after talks with the White House and rumblings of a primary challenge.)Republican defectors stress that their opposition is not personal but institutional. Spending money and declaring war are foundational powers assigned in the Constitution to Congress. By ceding to the president the right to declare a national emergency, they’d essentially be weakening their own power — and their leverage for the next negotiation with the White House.“I believe the use of emergency powers in this circumstance violates the Constitution,” said Senator Jerry Moran, Republican of Kansas, in a statement written on lined paper and published on Twitter.But it’s also important to look at these votes in context of this political moment. The White House is under siege from congressional investigations, and the special counsel report is looming. Mr. Trump’s approval ratings hover around 40 percent.With the 2020 campaign well underway, some Republicans may be calibrating their views for their own re-election races in purple states. Others, like Senators Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, may be imagining a post-Trump political world.We don’t know exactly how Mr. Trump, a man who deeply values loyalty, will handle this type of rebuke from his own party. It’s awfully hard not to picture him taking it personally.In the past, Mr. Trump has gleefully taken credit for “retiring” critics like former Senator Jeff Flake and Republican House members who rejected “the embrace” of the White House — losses that cost his party control of the House.But he may find that there’s some power in numbers: Targeting a pack of a dozen Republicans is harder than picking off a few strays.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________This is The Soapbox, a forum for you to share your thoughts with us and your fellow On Politics readers.Earlier this week, we looked at Beto O’Rourke’s unorthodox path to the 2020 primary — the lonely road trips, the Kerouac-like blog posts — and wondered how it would have been perceived if he were a female candidate. Now that he has officially entered the race, we wanted to share some responses that we received this week.“I totally agree with you on the double standard for male/female candidates,” Judith wrote. “Beto O’Rourke is an egocentric and most unappealing potential candidate — I hope he sinks slowly in the west.”“Who cares why Beto O’Rourke spent the last several months on the road? Any effect on his family is between him and his family,” wrote Anne. She said her concern was with his policies (or lack thereof): “‘Not Ted Cruz’ and ‘Not Donald Trump’ and ‘but so many Texans like him’ aren’t sufficient reasons for me to make a decision about whether I’d want to trust him with running this country.”[Here’s a look at where Mr. O’Rourke stands on some of the biggest issues of the 2020 race.]“Unless I completely miss my guess, Beto is a flash in the pan,” Mina wrote. “Had there not been a Donald Trump, a crazy person, following Obama, a well-educated, amazing president, there would be no Beto having the audacity to think he could be president!”“I don’t begrudge Beto’s unorthodox style of ‘campaigning’ and don’t hold against him being male and running for office in that way,” wrote Karen, who described herself as a veteran political activist. “The one thing which Beto has that no other candidate who is running has is that he is genuine and speaks from his heart (not his head). Most of my friends are politicians or former politicians, and no one is like Beto.”If you want to share your thoughts, send us an email: onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________• A mob boss’s killing on Staten Island last night harked back to the old days of organized crime in New York. Here’s the story of the man who was gunned down: Frank Cali, reputed leader of the Gambino crime family.• Our tech columnist Kevin Roose takes a look at Senator Elizabeth Warren’s proposal to break up big tech companies. He says the plan is “a bold first stab at reform,” but offers some edits to make it more effective.• “I want to be in it. Man, I’m just born to be in it.” Vanity Fair gives Beto O’Rourke the profile treatment, complete with Reaganesque photo spread.____________________TMZ with some breaking 2020 news: Cory *hearts* Rosario. Also, this insta-classic by the Times photographer Doug Mills is not to be missed._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
