AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Tuesday. The actor Michael Imperioli, the Westchester County native who played Governor Cuomo in a recent television mini-series, is 53.Weather: Sunny, windy and brisk. It will feel like the low 20s in the morning, but the day will warm up to the high 40s by afternoon.Alternate-side parking: In effect until April 18 (Holy Thursday).The special prosecutor Robert Mueller’s investigation into President Trump is over.Now it’s New York’s turn.Federal and state prosecutors in New York are at the forefront of about a dozen investigations connected to Mr. Trump, which largely grew out of Mr. Mueller’s effort.Here’s a guide to the inquiries.Didn’t the Mueller report settle everything?Hardly. Mr. Mueller investigated two main issues: whether the Trump campaign conspired with the Russian government to interfere in the 2016 presidential election, and whether the president obstructed that investigation.[Read the key Mueller findings.]During that inquiry, evidence of other possible crimes came to light, so Mr. Mueller’s team referred cases to other offices for further investigation.How many investigations are there?About a dozen, according to sources and court documents. Typically, investigations are done in secret, so there is no official count.More than half appear to be in New York. Others are in Washington, Virginia and Los Angeles.Why are so many investigations in New York?Mr. Trump worked in New York for years and ran his campaign from here. That puts the president, his associates and his company, the Trump Organization, in the jurisdiction of New York investigators.Who is investigating in New York?• On the federal level: the Southern District of New York and the Eastern District of New York.• On the state level: the attorney general, the Manhattan district attorney, the Department of Financial Services and the Department of Taxation and Finance.What are they investigating?A lot. Mr. Trump’s business, his campaign, his inauguration and his presidency.They are mostly following his money: where it went and how it was accounted for.One set of inquiries relates to Mr. Trump’s campaign and other activities. Did his business arrange payments to women who claimed they had affairs with Mr. Trump, which may violate campaign finance rules?Did Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee make false filings with the Federal Election Commission? Did the committee receive illegal donations? Did a top campaign and inaugural committee fund-raiser use his connections to the president to bolster his own businesses?People who worked for Mr. Trump are also under scrutiny. Did Mr. Trump’s lawyers plan to offer a presidential pardon to a witness in exchange for keeping quiet? Can three companies that worked with Paul Manafort, the former presidential campaign chairman, be charged under the Foreign Agents Registration Act?Earlier activities are also under investigation.Has Mr. Trump’s family charitable foundation violated tax laws? Did the Trump Organization inflate insurance claims several years ago? Have Mr. Trump and his family underpaid taxes on his father’s real estate empire over several decades?How serious is all this?It varies. Some investigations are civil inquiries, and liability could lead to fines. Federal penalties could include prison time.The prevailing view at the federal Justice Department is that a sitting president cannot be indicted. The prosecutors in Manhattan could consider charging Mr. Trump after he leaves office.What’s next?Expect a lot of silence. This work can take time and is usually not done in public.What’s the takeaway?“By handing off so many cases to other offices, Mr. Mueller ensured that his investigation would live on for months, if not years, with prosecutors in New York,” according to my colleague Ben Protess, who has been reporting on these investigations.New York is poised to become the first city in the United States to introduce congestion pricing, putting new electronic tolls in place for drivers entering the busiest stretches of Manhattan, The Times’s Jesse McKinley and Winnie Hu reported.Details were not ironed out, but state leaders reached consensus that the plan was needed to help pay for much-needed repairs to the city’s subway system.[Read more about the congestion pricing plan.]A century after the first two women arrived in the Legislature, New Yorkers elected a record number of women to state government.An investigation has found allegations of sexual misconduct at Saint Ann’s, a prestigious Brooklyn private school.New Jersey lawmakers failed to pass a bill legalizing marijuana.The father of a Sandy Hook shooting victim died in an apparent suicide.A mayor mulling a 2020 bid? New York was buzzing over Pete Buttigieg, not Bill de Blasio.Representative José Serrano of the Bronx said he would not run for re-election, citing the effects of Parkinson’s disease.A New Jersey high school staged a production of the 1979 film “Alien,” and the internet had a meltdown.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.Fewer undocumented immigrants who are victims of crime are stepping forward. [WNYC]A nurses’ strike slated to begin April 2 has been postponed, union officials said. [amNew York]Another day, another animal rescue in New York City. [NY1]A rogue sculpture shaped like a toe was found in Riverside Park. [West Side Rag]Did someone just find a silent home movie featuring Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac? [Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation]Explore space beyond Pluto at the American Museum of Natural History’s planetarium. 7 p.m. [$15]Watch a documentary about Jane Jacobs, an urban activist, at the Brooklyn Historical Society. 6:30 p.m. [Free]The mathematician Shing-Tung Yau discusses his search for the universe’s hidden dimensions at the National Museum of Mathematics in Manhattan. 6:30 p.m. [$10]Attend a public speaking workshop at Blank Studio N.Y.C. in Manhattan. 7 p.m. [$20]— Elisha BrownEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.You have to attend school until you are at least 16 years old.If you’re 17, you can work in a factory but cannot do construction work.And you can be elected to public office at 18, but you’ll have to wait three years before legally drinking alcohol.Sometimes, it can feel as if being young in New York City is a crime. In the 1950s, and earlier, it sort of was.“Kids were forming clubs, and adults were calling them gangs,” said Maeve Montalvo, an education coordinator at the Museum of the City of New York. On Wednesday at 5:30 p.m., the museum will host “Kids These Days: The Criminalization of Youth in New York,” a talk featuring Ella Antell, a doctoral candidate in United States history at Harvard University.There is a long record of adults looking at young people with trepidation, Ms. Antell said. Essentially, she said, teenagers gathered, and adults figured they were up to no good and called the groups “gangs.”“Youth themselves during this period didn’t call themselves gangs most of the time,” she added. “They called themselves street clubs or cliques. Adults perceived what they were doing as purely antisocial or purely criminal.”[In 1958, The Times explained teenage gang expressions, such as “cool it” and ”diddley bop.”]The people at the center of this conversation may be young, but the laws governing them are not.In 1933, for example, New York had juvenile delinquency laws that banned “extreme obscenities,” “running away from home” and “endangering the public morals of yourself or others,” Ms. Antell said.That last one “was concerned with controlling the sexual behavior of girls in particular,” she said. Put another way: “It was code word for prostitution.”It’s Tuesday — you don’t have to act your age today.Dear Diary:A friend’s husband found a young cat wandering in the Catskills. When they posted her picture on Facebook, something about her spoke to me. Although I’d had cats all my life, I hadn’t had one in more than eight months.“How will she get from the Catskills to Manhattan?” I asked.“I’ll drive her,” my friend’s husband said.The sweet little calico arrived three days later. The day after she showed up, I took her to my neighborhood vet for a checkup.He whisked her off for shots and blood tests and to treat her for roundworms, and then he brought her back to the examining room.“You just got very lucky,” he said.“I know!” I exclaimed. “She’s such a great cat.”“I was talking to the cat,” the vet said.— Barbara Peck New York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By John B. JudisTHE CASE FOR TRUMP By Victor Davis HansonI had expected that “The Case for Trump” would be an argument for why Donald Trump has been a good president, but it’s mostly about why Trump won in 2016, and its analysis, based on old polling and news clips, is interminable, marred by some cable-news-style exaggeration (Trump’s election foes are repeatedly characterized as being for “open borders”) and not particularly original. Victor Davis Hanson does, however, explain in passing and in the book’s concluding two chapters why he thinks Trump has been a good president, and this argument has some genuine merit and originality.In his preface, Hanson quotes approvingly Henry Kissinger’s judgment of Trump: “I think Trump may be one of those figures in history who appears from time to time to mark the end of an era and to force it to give up its old pretense.” That is true of Trump, as it was of Kissinger’s boss, Richard Nixon. Trump took office at a time when the early promise of globalization had foundered; when the purpose of the American alliance system was in doubt; when glowing projections of liberal democracy in Russia and China had proved dead wrong; and when America was mired in unwinnable wars.He spoke to these challenges in his campaign. His language was brutal, crude and sometimes racist or xenophobic, but in contrast to some of his opponents, he acknowledged the loss of more than two million manufacturing jobs to Chinese competition, the propensity of American companies to move abroad in search of lower wages and the continued difficulty of policing the country’s southern border. But the question is: What as president has he done about these things?Hanson, who is a retired classics professor and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, compares Trump to a tragic hero, who, crippled by “an innate flaw,” suffers a sorry end, but in the meantime does incredible good. Hanson acknowledges Trump’s “tweeting … feuding … unbridled and often vicious speech, even his fast and loose relationship with the truth.” He writes that “Trump likely will end in one of two fashions, both not particularly good: either spectacular but unacknowledged accomplishments followed by ostracism when he is out of office and no longer useful, or, less likely, a single term due to the eventual embarrassment of his beneficiaries, as if his utility is no longer worth the wages of his perceived crudity.”In line with the first of these alternatives, Hanson believes that what Trump “accomplished in his first 20 months in office was undeniably impressive.” Hanson credits Trump with ramping up the economy and lowering unemployment through tax cuts and deregulation. He praises Trump for forcing China and Europe into trade negotiations, pulling out of the Paris climate change and Iran nuclear agreements, moving the American embassy to Jerusalem (“Trump blew up the Israeli-Palestinian deadlock”) and “squeezing” North Korea through sanctions. “It was hard to see,” Hanson writes, “how U.S. relations with key allies or deterrent stances against enemies were not improved since the years of the Obama administration, at least in the sense that there was no more naïve Russian reset.”Except for detailing Trump’s success in boosting the economy, Hanson does not argue these points against obvious objections. Pulling out of Paris? Hanson at one point describes global warming as an “apparition,” but he cites no scientific evidence for this or any justification for abandoning international agreements to limit carbon emissions. Improved relations with allies? What about our European allies? Or Canada? As for the Iran deal, he claims that “most experts had known that the Obama-led Iran deal was unworkable and thus unsustainable,” but by my count the most prominent thought otherwise. I am not saying that Trump did nothing that was impressive — he has definitely gone beyond his predecessors in contesting China’s trade practices — but that many of the things Hanson cites as “undeniably impressive” need justification, at least if Hanson intended his book to be read by people who don’t already agree with its bald assertions.Like other political analysts, Hanson portrays the 2016 election as a contest between “two Americas” — an affluent coastal elite and a hinterland that had been flattened by globalization as “jobs and commerce were outsourced to lower-cost Asia and Latin America.” Trump was the voice of the hinterland. The “insidious decline of the Rust Belt by 2016 was the embryo of Donald Trump’s candidacy.” Of course, Trump also attracted conventional Republicans in Kansas or Arizona who simply saw him as preferable to Hillary Clinton, but the blue-collar voters in states like Wisconsin that had previously gone Democratic were the key to his victory. They liked what he said about trade and immigration and his defiance of political correctness. “Trump’s own uncouthness,” Hanson writes, “was in its own manner contextualized by his supporters as a long overdue pushback to the elite disdain and indeed hatred shown them.”Most of Hanson’s book was written before the 2018 election and does not seem to have been substantially revised in the light of the Republican defeats. He predicts that the Midwest, where Democrats did pretty well in 2018, “is insidiously becoming another red-state South.” In his epilogue, based on early estimates, Hanson discounts the 2018 results, writing that the Democrats “in strictly statistical terms had done historically not all that much better than most opposition parties in a president’s first term.” But since 1946, the average loss of the presidential party has been 25 not 40 seats, and in most of these instances, the economy was not booming. In 1998, when it was booming, Bill Clinton’s Democrats gained five seats. That suggests that of the two alternatives Hanson offers, the one that he deems the less likely, “a single term due to the eventual embarrassment of his beneficiaries,” may prove to be his tragic hero’s fate.John B. Judis is the author, most recently, of “The Nationalist Revival: Trade, Immigration, and the Revolt Against Globalization.”THE CASE FOR TRUMP By Victor Davis Hanson 391 pp. Basic Books. $30.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWe need more information.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.Now that people have had a day to digest Michael Cohen’s testimony, it’s possible to put together a working list of questions that congressional investigators should pursue. These questions revolve mostly around Trump’s business dealings with Russia and his attempts to hide information from the public and from investigators.Here goes:What role did Allen Weisselberg, an executive at the Trump Organization, play in reimbursing Michael Cohen for hush payments made to a porn star who claimed to have had an affair with Trump? The answer could help clarify Trump’s role in making and covering up the payments.Did Trump commit fraud by misrepresenting his wealth in documents provided to financial firms? Both Weisselberg’s testimony and Trump’s tax returns could shed light. “Was there Russian money coming into the Trump Organization or into Mr. Trump’s personal finances, and was he inflating the numbers [to] get loans?” in the words of Eric Swalwell, a California Democrat. That is, did the Russians have leverage over Trump in 2016?Did Donald Trump Jr. lie to Congress in 2017 about Trump’s business ventures in Russia? And what role did he play in the hush-money payments to Stormy Daniels, the porn star with whom Trump allegedly had an affair? Did Jay Sekulow, a Trump lawyer, and Abbe Lowell, who represents Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, review and edit Cohen’s false testimony about Trump’s business dealings in Russia? Cohen claimed so on Wednesday, and Sekulow has denied it. Lowell has not commented.Can Rhona Graff, Trump’s longtime secretary, confirm Cohen’s allegation that Roger Stone called Trump in 2016 to discuss WikiLeaks-hacked Democratic emails?Did Donald Trump Jr. confer with his father about the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting with several Russians? If so, did the president commit perjury by reportedly claiming otherwise in written answers to the special counsel Robert Mueller?Did Trump use his now-defunct charitable foundation to avoid paying taxes? Did Trump lie about his taxes being under audit as an excuse to avoid releasing his tax returns? What does Felix Sater, a Russia-born former business associate of Trump’s who was part of talks to build a Trump Tower in Moscow, know about Trump’s business dealings in Russia?And beyond Cohen’s testimony: What do Trump’s tax returns show about his activities in Russia? What other potential crimes are prosecutors — either in New York or at the Justice Department — investigating?(Thanks to Dan Friedman of Mother Jones for some of the above.)[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]How to get answersThe key next steps for the House include: demanding Trump’s tax returns; serving subpoenas to people whom Cohen mentioned in his testimony; serving subpoenas to obtain documents that can clear up any of the above; and, of course, following up on any new questions raised by the Mueller report.Cohen spent years as one of Trump’s most important aides. His testimony about Trump this week seemed highly credible, given that he knocked down some damaging stories about the president and corroborated others. I’m glad to see that House Democrats plan to pursue these issues, as The Times reported last night — but not yet open a formal impeachment hearing. It’s precisely the right play. At this point, we need more information. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah Maslin Nir[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]When Donald J. Trump purchased the muddy stretch of abandoned rail yards alongside the Hudson River in 1985, he envisioned building a complex called “Trump City” on Manhattan’s Upper West Side. The deal didn’t quite come together, but nevertheless, in the scaled-back version that rose between West 72nd and West 59th streets, the word “Trump” was splashed in gold on six apartment towers.Soon none will say “Trump.” On Friday, the board of one tower, 220 Riverside Boulevard, notified residents that it will remove the Trump lettering from above its front door.This decision comes one day after the only other remaining “Trump Place” building, 120 Riverside Boulevard, said it planned to remove the name.In doing so, both towers — 220 and 120 — join the four other neighboring buildings in the complex that have, since 2016, each moved to wipe the president’s name from their facades, erasing Mr. Trump from the pocket of Manhattan he once imagined would be his own eponymous city.“I am just glad they’re coming down — and him along with it hopefully,” said Mary Stanton, 72, as she shopped in Jubilee Marketplace inside 180 Riverside Boulevard, another building formerly known as Trump. The Trump name has no place there, she said.On Friday, at least one resident popped out of 220 to take photographs of the glittery letters still on the building before they disappear.The news of the latest removal came in an email from the condominium board of 220, sent out on Feb. 22, and first reported by The Washington Post, which said that 83 percent of the building had voted on the issue.“Of the 83 percent [that] voted, 74.7 percent voted to remove the signage, and 25.3 percent voted not to remove the signage,” The Post quoted the email as saying. “Over the next several weeks, we will select a company to carry out the required work” to remove the name.The day before, the condo board of 120 Riverside Boulevard made a similar emailed announcement, but the decision was by a smaller majority — 55 percent, according to The Post, which also broke the news of that decision.Despite the name, the complex is not owned by Mr. Trump, and the various buildings are run by distinct entities. 180, 160 and 140 Riverside Boulevard are rental buildings owned by Equity Residential, a Chicago-based company that acquired them for $809 million in 2005, and contracted with the Trump Organization to use the Trump name. The three others, 120, 200 and 220, are condominiums. 200 paid Mr. Trump $1 to use his name on the building, according to reports.In 2016, hundreds of tenants at 180, 160 and 140 Riverside Boulevard signed a petition to Dump the Trump Name, and it was removed three weeks before he took office. At the time, Equity said it was not a political move: the contract with Mr. Trump to use his name on the buildings had simply run out.When 200 Riverside Boulevard tried to follow suit, the condo board went to the State Supreme Court to determine if it had the right to remove the name, which the Trump Organization said was inviolable. Judge Eileen Bransten ruled in the board’s favor, saying the letters could be stripped from the 46-story building, pending a vote by the tenants.The last holdout, 220, hung on, not because of any fealty to the president, but because they feared litigation, according to a resident who asked that her name not be used because she did not want to anger her neighbors by discussing internal building politics.“When 200 did it, it set a precedent; we saw what was possible,” she said. “Most people were like-minded in wanting it to come down, but there was a little bit of fear of what is going to happen, what sort of backlash there would be.”“We lived here well before we ever dreamed he would be president, but in the last two years it’s been really awkward,” the 220 resident added. “When a cab pulls up in front our building, the cabdriver always says, ‘Ugh, Trump!’”The boards of the two buildings that announced the removals this week could not be reached. The Trump Organization did not respond to an email requesting comment.Prices in the city’s Trump-branded buildings took a hit after the election, and have not fully recovered. A few weeks ago, Mike Kim, 33, who works in importing and exporting, looked at an apartment in 120 Riverside Boulevard, which still has the gleaming “Trump Place” sign above the entrance. “It was kind of cheap, so I was interested,” he said. “But my girlfriend said, ‘Oh, it’s a Trump building? I don’t know.’”The complex joins a host of other residential buildings and hotels, both in New York and elsewhere, that have rid themselves of the Trump name. In SoHo, after customers, including N.B.A. stars, avoided the Trump SoHo hotel, the Trump Organization came to an agreement to exit from its involvement with the property. It is now The Dominick.About two years ago, a petition to the board of managers of 220 Riverside Boulevard popped up on Change.Org, by an anonymous “concerned resident,” asking to keep the Trump name. “It is a part of his legacy, and it is not right to erase this legacy (and erase history) simply because one disagrees with some of his policies,” it reads.Nevertheless, today on the Upper West Side, there appears to be only one mention of Mr. Trump’s name not on its way out. At 79th Street and the West Side Highway, there is a little, blue “adopt-a-highway” sign.It still says Donald J. Trump.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Iliana MagraLONDON — President Trump has implied that a golf course owned by the Trump Organization in Scotland helps cement the United States’ relationship with Britain, just a few days after a Scottish court ruled that the company had to pay expenses in a failed lawsuit.“Very proud of perhaps the greatest golf course anywhere in the world,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Saturday, adding, “Also, furthers U.K. relationship!”Very proud of perhaps the greatest golf course anywhere in the world. Also, furthers U.K. relationship! https://t.co/3xTzzJH6IqThe Trump International golf course near Aberdeen, in northeastern Scotland, was ordered on Wednesday to cover the Scottish government’s legal costs after the company was unsuccessful in its attempts to halt a North Sea wind power development.Mr. Trump’s company had argued that the wind turbines would mar the view from the golf course. The case went to the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom in December 2015, where the company lost, setting up the ruling about who should pay costs.The exact sum of the reimbursement that the Trump Organization now has to pay has not been disclosed. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The president’s tweet prompted bafflement and concern among some legal and ethics experts.Thomas Lundmark, a professor of law at the University of Hull, in northern England, said in a telephone interview on Monday that the tweet “made me curious.”“I don’t know what he’s talking about,” Mr. Lundmark added. “Does it further a relationship for him? For the United States? For us? How?”Though the ruling in Scotland was against Mr. Trump’s company, Mr. Lundmark suggested that there were constitutional and ethical concerns.The American Constitution prohibits the president from accepting payments from foreign and domestic governments. Mr. Trump owns golf courses, hotels and other properties that are frequented by foreign and domestic government officials.Some have claimed that Mr. Trump’s promotion of his properties while president amount to a violation of the emoluments clauses in the Constitution.“He’s turned companies over to other people to manage, but he is still a beneficiary,” Mr. Lundmark said.John Linarelli, an American professor of commercial law at Durham University in northeast England, said that there was “plausible concern” that the constitutional rules were being violated.It was also, he added, “a question of ethics.”“You want him to have our interests in mind when he’s managing foreign policy — not his own,” Mr. Linarelli added.Walter M. Shaub Jr., who resigned his post as the United States government’s top ethics watchdog in July 2017, said in a tweet on Saturday that Mr. Trump’s comment was the president’s “most explicit commingling of personal interests and public office to date.”“This is shameless, corrupt and repugnant presidential profiteering,” he added. “This is an invitation to graft.”Mr. Shaub is now a senior adviser for Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a nonprofit advocacy group.The group sued Mr. Trump in January 2017, arguing that he was “illegally receiving payments from foreign governments.” The lawsuit cleared a hurdle last March when a federal judge in Maryland refused the Justice Department’s request to dismiss it.In July, another lawsuit accusing the president of violating the Constitution by maintaining a financial interest in his company’s Washington hotel was allowed to move to the evidence-gathering stage.Follow Iliana Magra on Twitter: @Magraki. Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe parallels between the Mafia and the Trump Organization are striking, and Giuliani perfected the template for prosecuting organized crime.By Garrett M. GraffMr. Graff is the author of “The Threat Matrix: Inside Robert Mueller’s F.B.I. and the War on Global Terror.” Any onetime Mafia investigator who listened to the Trump “fixer” Michael Cohen testify Wednesday would have immediately recognized the congressional hearing’s historical analogue — what America witnessed on Capitol Hill wasn’t so much John Dean turning on President Richard Nixon, circa 1973; it was the mobster Joseph Valachi turning on the Cosa Nostra, circa 1963.The Valachi hearings, led by Senator John McClellan of Arkansas, opened the country’s eyes for the first time to the Mafia, as the witness broke “omertà” — the code of silence — to speak in public about “this thing of ours,” Cosa Nostra. He explained just how “organized” organized crime actually was — with soldiers, capos, godfathers and even the “Commission,” the governing body of the various Mafia families.Fighting the Mafia posed a uniquely hard challenge for investigators. Mafia families were involved in numerous distinct crimes and schemes, over yearslong periods, all for the clear benefit of its leadership, but those very leaders were tough to prosecute because they were rarely involved in the day-to-day crime. They spoke in their own code, rarely directly ordering a lieutenant to do something illegal, but instead offering oblique instructions or expressing general wishes that their lieutenants simply knew how to translate into action.Those explosive — and arresting — hearings led to the 1970 passage of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, better known as RICO, a law designed to allow prosecutors to go after enterprises that engaged in extended, organized criminality. RICO laid out certain “predicate” crimes — those that prosecutors could use to stitch together evidence of a corrupt organization and then go after everyone involved in the organization as part of an organized conspiracy. While the headline-grabbing RICO “predicates” were violent crimes like murder, kidnapping, arson and robbery, the statute also focused on crimes like fraud, obstruction of justice, money laundering and even aiding or abetting illegal immigration.It took prosecutors a while to figure out how to use RICO effectively, but by the mid-1980s, federal investigators in the Southern District of New York were hitting their stride under none other than the crusading United States attorney Rudy Giuliani, who as the head of the Southern District brought charges in 1985 against the heads of the city’s five dominant Mafia families.Ever since, S.D.N.Y. prosecutors and F.B.I. agents have been the nation’s gold standard in RICO prosecutions — a fact that makes clear precisely why, after Mr. Cohen’s testimony, President Trump’s greatest legal jeopardy may not be in the investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller.What lawmakers heard Wednesday sounded a lot like a racketeering enterprise: an organization with a few key players and numerous overlapping crimes — not just one conspiracy, but many. Even leaving aside any questions about the Mueller investigation and the 2016 campaign, Mr. Cohen leveled allegations that sounded like bank fraud, charity fraud and tax fraud, as well as hints of insurance fraud, obstruction of justice and suborning perjury. The parallels between the Mafia and the Trump Organization are more than we might like to admit: After all, Mr. Cohen was labeled a “rat” by President Trump last year for agreeing to cooperate with investigators; interestingly, in the language of crime, “rats” generally aren’t seen as liars. They’re “rats” precisely because they turn state’s evidence and tell the truth, spilling the secrets of a criminal organization.Mr. Cohen was clear about the rot at the center of his former employer: “Everybody’s job at the Trump Organization is to protect Mr. Trump. Every day most of us knew we were coming and we were going to lie for him about something. That became the norm.”RICO was precisely designed to catch the godfathers and bosses at the top of these crime syndicates — people a step or two removed from the actual crimes committed, those whose will is made real, even without a direct order.Exactly, it appears, as Mr. Trump did at the top of his family business: “Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates,” Mr. Cohen said. Mr. Trump, Mr. Cohen said, “doesn’t give orders. He speaks in code. And I understand that code.”What’s notable about Mr. Cohen’s comments is how they paint a consistent (and credible) pattern of Mr. Trump’s behavior: The former F.B.I. director James Comey, in testimony nearly two years ago in the wake of his firing, made almost exactly the same point and used almost exactly the same language. Mr. Trump never directly ordered him to drop the Flynn investigation, Mr. Comey said, but he made it all too clear what he wanted — the president isolated Mr. Comey, with no other ears around, and then said he hoped Mr. Comey “can let this go.” As Mr. Comey said, “I took it as, this is what he wants me to do.” He cited in his testimony then the famous example of King Henry II’s saying, “Will no one rid me of this turbulent priest?,” a question that resulted in the murder of that very meddlesome priest, Thomas Becket.The sheer number and breadth of the investigations into Mr. Trump’s orbit these days indicates how vulnerable the president’s family business would be to just this type of prosecution. In December, I counted 17, and since then, investigators have started an inquiry into undocumented workers at Mr. Trump’s New Jersey golf course, another crime that could be a RICO predicate; Mr. Cohen’s public testimony itself, where he certainly laid out enough evidence and bread crumbs for prosecutors to verify his allegations, mentioned enough criminal activity to build a racketeering case. Moreover, RICO allows prosecutors to wrap 10 years of racketeering activity into a single set of charges, which is to say, almost precisely the length of time — a decade — that Michael Cohen would have unparalleled insight into Mr. Trump’s operations. Similarly, many Mafia cases end up being built on wiretaps — just like, for instance, the perhaps 100 recordings Mr. Cohen says he made of people during his tenure working for Mr. Trump, recordings that federal investigators are surely poring over as part of the 290,000 documents and files they seized in their April raid last year.Indicting the whole Trump Organization as a “corrupt enterprise” could also help prosecutors address the thorny question of whether the president can be indicted in office; they could lay out a whole pattern of criminal activity, indict numerous players — including perhaps Trump family members — and leave the president himself as a named, unindicted co-conspirator. Such an action would allow investigators to make public all the known activity for Congress and the public to consider as part of impeachment hearings or re-election. It would also activate powerful forfeiture tools for prosecutors that could allow them to seize the Trump Organization’s assets and cut off its income streams.The irony will be that if federal prosecutors decide to move against President Trump’s empire and family together, he’ll have one man’s model to thank: his own TV lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, who perfected the template to tackle precisely that type of criminal enterprise.Garrett M. Graff (@vermontgmg) is a journalist, historian and the author of “The Threat Matrix: Inside Robert Mueller’s F.B.I. and the War on Global Terror.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben Protess, William K. Rashbaum and Maggie HabermanMichael D. Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, met last month with federal prosecutors in Manhattan, offering information about possible irregularities within the president’s family business and about a donor to the inaugural committee, according to people familiar with the matter.Mr. Cohen, who worked at the Trump Organization for a decade, spoke with the prosecutors about insurance claims the company had filed over the years, said the people, who did not elaborate on the nature of the possible irregularities.While it was not clear whether the prosecutors found Mr. Cohen’s information credible and whether they intended to pursue it, the meeting suggests that they are interested in broader aspects of the Trump Organization, beyond their investigation into the company’s role in the hush money payments made before the 2016 election to women claiming to have had affairs with Mr. Trump. Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty last summer to arranging those payments.The prosecutors also questioned Mr. Cohen about a donor to the president’s inaugural committee, Imaad Zuberi, a California venture capitalist and political fund-raiser, according to the people familiar with the matter, who were not authorized to discuss the confidential meeting. Around the time that Mr. Zuberi contributed $900,000 to the committee, he also tried to hire Mr. Cohen as a consultant and wrote him a substantial check, one of the people said.Although Mr. Cohen did not go through with the arrangement, he was building a consulting business at the time with clients who sought to understand and have access to the Trump administration.A spokesman for Mr. Zuberi, Steve Rabinowitz, confirmed the check on Friday, saying it was for $100,000 and never cashed. Mr. Zuberi, the only person directly referenced in a recent subpoena the prosecutors sent the inaugural committee, had previously denied having any dealings with Mr. Cohen beyond a few conversations.There was no indication that Mr. Cohen, who is scheduled to begin serving a three-year prison sentence in May, implicated Mr. Trump in the possible irregularities discussed during the meeting last month. If prosecutors concluded that Mr. Cohen’s information was truthful and valuable, they could ask the judge who sentenced him to reduce his prison term.The White House referred questions to the Trump Organization. A spokeswoman at the company did not respond to requests for comment. In the past, the president has accused Mr. Cohen of lying to try to reduce his sentence.Lanny Davis, a lawyer and adviser to Mr. Cohen, would not comment on the investigations beyond saying that his client was “interested in cooperating with and assisting” the prosecutors “in any way they believe is helpful.”A spokesman for the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan, known as the Southern District of New York, declined to comment.The prosecutors recently sought to interview Trump Organization executives, according to a person briefed on the request, which was previously reported by CNN. The nature of the questions they were seeking to ask was not known.So far, Mr. Cohen is the only person sentenced to significant prison time in various investigations connected to Mr. Trump.In August, Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to breaking campaign finance laws for his role in the hush money payments, as well as tax and bank crimes. In a separate case brought by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty in November to lying to Congress about the timing of negotiations to build a Trump skyscraper in Moscow, and about the extent of Mr. Trump’s involvement in the plans.In a memo to the court before he was sentenced in December, Mr. Cohen’s lawyers wrote that he was being disproportionately punished for “conduct that is routinely pursued through noncriminal enforcement,” referring to his admission of tax evasion. His lawyers drew a comparison to celebrities who received either fines or far less time after being charged with extensive tax fraud.The session with the Southern District prosecutors was not the first time Mr. Cohen provided information that could possibly lead to a reduced sentence. Earlier, Mr. Cohen met twice with the prosecutors to assist their investigation of the payments to women, including the Trump Organization’s decision to reimburse Mr. Cohen for $130,000 he paid to the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels.In an interview in December, Mr. Cohen told George Stephanopoulos of ABC News that he was “done with the lying.” He went on: “I am done being loyal to President Trump, and my first loyalty belongs to my wife, my daughter, my son and this country.Federal law allows prosecutors to seek — and a judge to grant — a reduced prison term for a defendant who offers “substantial assistance in investigating or prosecuting another person” within a year of being sentenced. The same rule would also allow the judge to consider assistance Mr. Cohen provided, before his sentencing, to the special counsel. Last year, he met seven times with prosecutors from Mr. Mueller’s office.The continued scrutiny of the Trump family business and inaugural committee from the Southern District comes as Mr. Mueller is said to be wrapping up his investigation. Once he completes a report with his findings, various aspects of his investigation are expected to live on in the Southern District and other United States attorneys offices.Mr. Cohen declined to seek a formal cooperation deal with the Southern District, which would have required him to disclose any crimes he had committed or had been aware of, and would have delayed his sentencing. His decision to forgo such an agreement most likely contributed to the severity of his sentence; his lawyer had argued for no prison time.Mr. Trump had offered a different view, saying late last year that Mr. Cohen should serve a “full and complete” prison sentence. And as Mr. Cohen remained in the spotlight as a likely witness before Congress, Mr. Trump intensified his attacks on his former employee, urging prosecutors and the media to scrutinize Mr. Cohen’s family.The attacks led Mr. Cohen to postpone a planned appearance before the House oversight committee earlier this month. But this week, the committee announced that the testimony was back on for next Wednesday and that Democrats planned to question Mr. Cohen about “the president’s business practices.”Mr. Cohen has also agreed to testify behind closed doors before the House and Senate Intelligence Committees.Mr. Cohen was originally scheduled to begin his prison term next month, but his lawyers cited the congressional testimony — as well as recent shoulder surgery — as a reason for a two-month delay. The judge overseeing Mr. Cohen’s case granted the request on Wednesday.Benjamin Weiser contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe conversationOn that we can all agree. On 2020, not so much.By Gail Collins and Bret StephensMs. Collins and Mr. Stephens are opinion columnists. They converse every other week.Bret Stephens: Gail, the word is that Robert Mueller may soon send his report to Attorney General William Barr. Do you expect a bombshell, a dud — or just a lot more confusion, depending on what Barr makes public and what Congress chooses to do with its conclusions?Gail Collins: Well, we’ve already got indicted minions. As to Trump himself, I feel very safe voting for “a lot more confusion.” Just on general principles. The Trump presidential campaign was knee-deep in conflicts of interest, many of them involving Russia. But given the man’s general disorganization, I find it hard to imagine the report picking him out as the sinister, canny leader who was orchestrating everything behind the scenes.Still feeling that the real disaster for Trump is going to come with the investigations into his business practices in New York. How about you?Bret: That’s my guess, too. Trump’s $100 million inauguration committee looks like a giant pay-to-play scheme. I still think his alleged campaign-finance violations in connection to the Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal payoffs are criminal and impeachable. And who knows what else Mueller’s investigation have dredged up about Trump family values.Gail: The family that stays together preys together …Bret: And vice versa. That said, if Mueller finds no clear and credible evidence of collusion or cooperation between the Trump campaign and Russia, it will be a major political victory for the president and a liability for his detractors. Fairly or not, it will call all the other investigations into question, however credible or serious they may be.That’s one of the reasons I’ve been leery of investing too much political capital in wondering what Trump might have done behind people’s backs. It’s what he does every day in plain sight that is much more concerning.Gail: Even if the Mueller investigation fails to produce, we’ll still have a bunch of congressional committees digging up dirt. But I know that’s not as satisfying for a conservative Trump-hater. You’re right that there’s plenty to investigate in his normal day-to-day life. Which horrible things the president has done lately seem most appalling to you?Bret: Well, that list is long. But let me start by praising Trump on a couple of fronts. I think he’s shown moral leadership on Venezuela, by getting much of the world to recognize Juan Guaidó as the legitimate president and drawing attention to the humanitarian catastrophe unfolding under the Maduro regime. And I’m also glad he’s partially reversed course and will keep at least some troops in Syria. I hope he winds up withdrawing none of them so long as they can help protect our Kurdish friends and deter our Syrian, Iranian, Russian and Turkish foes.O.K. Now to the rest. His declaration of a national emergency over border-wall funding is a threat to constitutional government and the separation of powers and sets a precedent that both sides will abuse if the Supreme Court doesn’t stop it.Gail: No disagreement on the national emergency. The fact that you haven’t seen a major uprising of Republicans over that is proof that there’s no real Republican Party anymore, only Trumpism.And I’m looking forward to the next Democratic president declaring that climate change is a national emergency …Bret: His unloading on The New York Times as “a true ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE” is an assault on the First Amendment and the safety of journalists, including us. His hankering for a deal — any deal — with North Korea’s Kim Jong-un so that he can win a Nobel Peace Prize is a danger to peace and stability in Asia.Gail: Our publisher really called Trump out on the danger he is creating for journalists. It’s perilous enough reporting from trouble spots around the globe without having the president of the United States cheerleading for the enemies of a free press.Bret: His desire to start another trade war with Europe, this time over cars, is a threat to global growth and another nail in the coffin of trans-Atlantic unity. His nonstop lies and exaggerations and demagoguery about the purported evils of illegal immigration are an insult to our intelligence and devastating to the G.O.P.’s chances of ever again being a majority party.Gail: I love it when you get on a roll like this. Keep going.Bret: And his overall comportment continues to be a foul stain on the office of the presidency, a moral embarrassment to a majority of Americans, and a blot on the record of liberal democracy. How about you?Gail: Well, you’ve kind of run the table. But I’d add his attempts to undermine women’s reproductive rights. The assault on Planned Parenthood isn’t just about abortion, it’s about the far right’s hatred of anything that gives women the power to decide if and when they want to get pregnant. Can’t tell you what a deep irony it is to have this guy leading that crusade.Bret: I’d call it hypocrisy, not irony, but I’m being pedantic.Gail: And everything about guns and domestic violence. Many people have taken note of the fact that the president tweeted out about the Smollett scandal and the suit against The Washington Post by the Kentucky high school student who was involved in that incident with a Native American in Washington. But not a twittery word about the white supremacist Coast Guard officer who has been accused of stockpiling weapons to murder newscasters and liberal politicians. When reporters asked him about it, all Trump could come up with was, “I think it’s a shame.” That’s the kind of thing you say when a politician gets caught cheating on his wife, not when you’re talking about a self-declared white supremacist intent on a politically inspired mass slaughter.Bret: The Smollett and Covington High stories are fascinating in a cultural sense, mostly for what they tell us about our current culture of victimhood and the assumptions too many people, including too many in our profession, make about who is the victim based on current stereotypes. But the case of the Coast Guard officer is genuinely terrifying given that it comes on the heels of the Florida mail bomber, the Pittsburgh mass killer and the California man charged last year with phoning in death threats to journalists. That’s a terrifying reality of the culture war from which most of the right prefers to look away.Gail: Not long before he announced that he was running for president, Trump went to an N.R.A. convention and got a wild, massive reception. Right then I knew he was going to be a huge gun-rights supporter, no matter what he had believed before.When he was running against Hillary Clinton I thought he was terrible, but not nearly as terrible as he turned out to be. Kind of amazing. Did you foresee all of this?Bret: Partly. I wrote more than a dozen columns for The Wall Street Journal during the last presidential campaign, denouncing his bigotry, lawlessness, ignorance and demagoguery. He vindicates my first impression with his every foul tweet. I think he’s debasing our political culture in ways we will be living with, and suffering from, for at least a generation. And he’s becoming a role model of sorts for other populist demagogues around the world, from Brazil to Italy.Gail: Well, I wrote a lot about what a jerk he’d been in New York for the last 30-odd years. I guess I didn’t take him seriously enough because he’d always behaved like such a fool.Bret: On the other hand, the world didn’t end with his presidency. The economy is robust, we haven’t stumbled into a catastrophic war (yet), and democracy is still alive and well considering all the Democrats planning to run against him. That isn’t to say things might not still go horribly wrong, only that the habit of comparing Trump to despots of yore is off the mark and undermines the case against him.Gail: Right. He’s our own special unique despot wannabe.Bret: But can I switch the subject? Last week The Times ran an eye-opening story on Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, basically to the effect that she is a truly horrible boss, with some of the highest staff turnover in the Senate. From a policy standpoint she’s my favorite Democrat in the race, but this is a serious issue for her candidacy. How do you think voters should factor that into their considerations?Gail: I’m playing the wait-and-see card. We’re undoubtedly going to find out unpleasant things about a lot of the candidates as we go along. But that story about her using her comb to eat a salad on an airplane and then giving it to her aide to wash is going to … resonate.Your position is that you’ll vote for whoever the Democrats nominate, even if it’s a modern-day Attila the Hun, right?Bret: Definitely not! Of course I can’t vote for Trump under any circumstance. But I would never vote for Bernie Sanders, who seems to think bread lines are a good thing because they’re egalitarian. I couldn’t vote for Elizabeth Warren, either; she’s too far to my left and her prevarications about her ancestry are morally insulting and intellectually embarrassing. I have personal reservations about Cory Booker, stemming from his deceits as mayor of Newark, and Kamala Harris, stemming from her behavior as a prosecutor. If any of them is the nominee, I will probably write in Bill Weld or John Kasich or Larry Hogan — middle-of-the-road Republicans or former Republicans who know how to win over Democrats and could govern from the center.Gail: Ah, I remember many Republicans who had those sentiments: Trump was appalling and impossible to support, but Hillary Clinton was too far a bridge to cross. And so they voted for people like Gary Johnson, the Libertarian. Which meant they helped put Trump in office.Bret: I voted for Hillary Clinton, even though I had plenty of reservations. But there’s no way I’m going to follow Democrats jumping off the cliff on the left because I’m angry at Republicans for jumping off the cliff on the right.Gail: Really, I have to warn you. If I hear any Trump-hater talking about writing in his mother’s name or the Green Party name or Howard Schultz I immediately decide this is a person who would rather have four more years of Donald Trump than compromise his principles by voting for a deeply imperfect Democrat.Bret: I’m already compromising many of my usual political principles by voting for centrist Democrats, never mind the real lefties. I could vote for Joe Biden, though I doubt he’ll get the nomination, or Senator Michael Bennet from Colorado (our boss’s brother), or any other middle-of-the-road Democrat. That category included Klobuchar, but I have a problem with people who are horrible bosses and don’t have the good sense to use their fingers to eat the way I do.But let’s talk about something our readers really care about: the Oscars. Did you watch? Did your favorites win?Gail: I believe this is the first year ever that I’ve seen all the movies nominated for best picture, and best actress and best actor — and pretty much everything. This is all about avoiding Donald Trump. Since he’s been president I’ve instinctively organized my life around trying to forget about current events for at least a few hours a day. It’s the same reason I’ve been watching football for the first time in my life.But about the winners — I like watching people be genuinely surprised, so I really enjoyed seeing Olivia Colman win for playing the dotty queen in “The Favourite.” How about you?Bret: I saw only a few of the films. But I was thrilled with the win for “Free Solo,” the documentary about climber Alex Honnold that I wrote a column about last year. And I was deeply moved by “Roma.” I grew up in Mexico City, and the movie perfectly captured a world I know very, very well. Nice to see that in this accelerated age of ours there’s still appreciation for a film that takes it slow and goes deep.Gail: And while we’re talking about awards that made me happy — congratulations on winning the Ellis Island Medal of Honor, Bret! I’m so glad your fight for immigrant rights is being recognized. You deserve it. And as a bonus, I can’t think of anything that would irritate Donald Trump more.Bret: Thanks, Gail. Of course I’ll be bringing my mom to the ceremony. This year will be her 69th as an immigrant in this country.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — The dramatic public testimony to Congress on Wednesday morning by President Trump’s former lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, could intensify the legal issues facing the president in the criminal and civil investigations that are swirling around him, legal experts said.Mr. Cohen’s testimony before the House Oversight and Reform Committee was a remarkable personal and political rebuke to the president from a lawyer who served Mr. Trump with fierce loyalty for more than a decade.In his prepared testimony and about five hours of grilling by lawmakers, Mr. Cohen — who has pleaded guilty to lying to Congress and will go to prison for his crimes — blasted the president as a “racist,” a “con man” and a “cheat.”But legal experts said several of the specific allegations by Mr. Cohen in his opening statement could be relevant to questions about whether Mr. Trump participated in a conspiracy to affect the 2016 election, violated campaign finance laws and obstructed justice in an effort to deflect investigations.The experts cautioned that nothing Mr. Cohen said drastically altered what was known about any legal case against the president. The relevant laws are complex, and the president’s lawyers have repeatedly argued that he did not violate them. And perhaps most important, they note, there is a Justice Department policy that asserts that a president may not be indicted while in office.Still, Mr. Cohen’s testimony surfaced some new information that could be relevant to Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, or other prosecutors investigating cases touching on the president. Here are some examples:In his prepared remarks, Mr. Cohen described in detail how Mr. Trump personally reimbursed Mr. Cohen for the $130,000 hush money payment to Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film actress whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford, to ensure her silence about an affair with Mr. Trump.“In February 2017, one month into his presidency, I’m visiting President Trump in the Oval Office for the first time,” Mr. Cohen said. “It’s truly awe-inspiring, he’s showing me around and pointing to different paintings, and he says to me something to the effect of ‘Don’t worry, Michael, your January and February reimbursement checks are coming. They were FedExed from New York and it takes a while for that to get through the White House system.’”Richard L. Hasen, an election law professor at the University of California, Irvine School of Law, said prosecutors could use Mr. Cohen’s description of the payments from Mr. Trump to bolster a charge of campaign finance violations.Michael D. Cohen, the former lawyer and fixer for President Donald J. Trump, took the stand on Wednesday morning to testify publicly against Mr. Trump before the House Oversight Committee.“To the extent that these were illegal campaign finance contributions, which were reimbursed and not reported, here is more evidence that Trump was conspiring to violate campaign finance laws as president,” Mr. Hasen said.He noted, however, that campaign finance laws — which are complex — require proof that a person was willfully violating them. Mr. Cohen’s testimony does not prove that Mr. Trump knew that the payments he was making were illegal — something that prosecutors would have to prove if they wanted to charge the president.In his testimony, Mr. Cohen described a moment when he said Roger J. Stone Jr., one of Mr. Trump’s top political operatives, called the president to tell him about a conversation with Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder.“I was in Mr. Trump’s office when his secretary announced that Roger Stone was on the phone. Mr. Trump put Mr. Stone on the speakerphone,” Mr. Cohen said. “Mr. Stone told Mr. Trump that he had just gotten off the phone with Julian Assange and that Mr. Assange told Mr. Stone that, within a couple of days, there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign.”Mr. Cohen added: “Mr. Trump responded by stating to the effect of ‘wouldn’t that be great.’”Legal experts cautioned that just proving that Mr. Trump knew about the WikiLeaks plans to leak damaging documents ahead of time would not necessarily prove that the president or his campaign were guilty of conspiracy. Prosecutors would have to prove that Mr. Trump and the campaign actively engaged in coordinating with Russians to distribute the documents or took other actions to affect the outcome of the election.The question of contacts between WikiLeaks and the Trump campaign is central to the issue of whether there was any conspiracy between the campaign and Russia. It is not known what Mr. Trump might have told Mr. Mueller’s team about what, if anything, he knew about WikiLeaks’ plans or about contacts between Mr. Stone and Mr. Assange.Peter Zeidenberg, a former federal prosecutor, said that if Mr. Cohen is telling the truth, and if Mr. Trump claimed to Mr. Mueller in his sworn, written testimony that he was not aware of any contacts between Mr. Stone and Mr. Assange, that could be a crime.“When you lie in that context, it’s not only perjury but it’s obstruction of justice, too,” Mr. Zeidenberg said.Mr. Cohen’s testimony about Mr. Stone’s conversation with Mr. Trump could also open the president up to further campaign finance violations, Mr. Hasen said.Federal law bars campaigns from taking anything of value from foreign entities. The conversation with Mr. Stone could be used to help prove that Mr. Trump and his campaign knowingly accepted valuable help from WikiLeaks in his efforts to defeat Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential campaign.“If it’s true that Stone was directly in communication with Assange while also communicating with Trump and the Trump campaign, there’s the potential for a violation of the campaign finance laws involving foreign contributions,” Mr. Hasen said.He was quick to point out that prosecutors would need to have more evidence than just the conversation between Mr. Stone and Mr. Trump. “There are a lot more steps that we would need to conclude that Trump or the Trump campaign acted illegally with regard to WikiLeaks,” he said.In his prepared remarks, Mr. Cohen disputed a report this year from BuzzFeed News that Mr. Trump “personally instructed him to lie” to Congress about negotiations to build a Trump Tower in Moscow — an allegation that could lead to criminal charges if true.“Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress,” Mr. Cohen said. “That’s not how he operates.”But Mr. Cohen added that the president implicitly instructed him to lie about the Moscow deal by repeatedly lying about it himself.“In conversations we had during the campaign, at the same time I was actively negotiating in Russia for him, he would look me in the eye and tell me there’s no business in Russia and then go out and lie to the American people by saying the same thing,” Mr. Cohen said. “In his way, he was telling me to lie.”Mr. Cohen also said later during the hearing that Jay Sekulow, one of Mr. Trump’s lawyers, reviewed the false testimony that Mr. Cohen had prepared to give to Congress in May 2017 related to the Trump Tower Moscow project. Mr. Cohen suggested that Mr. Sekulow made changes that related to the timing of the project.“There were several changes made, including how we were going to handle that message which was — the message, of course, being the length of time that the Trump Tower Moscow project stayed and remained alive,” Mr. Cohen said Wednesday.Legal experts said the law did not require prosecutors to prove that Mr. Trump explicitly told Mr. Cohen to lie to Congress. But they also said that any effort to obscure the timing of the negotiations over the construction project could be used as evidence of motive in efforts to build a conspiracy case against the president.“If you’re going to make a case of conspiracy with the Russians, that’s going to be front and center,” Mr. Zeidenberg said.Mr. Cohen testified that he overheard a conversation that he believed proved that Mr. Trump knew about a campaign meeting between his top campaign aides and people connected with Russians.“I recalled Don Jr. leaning over to his father and speaking in a low voice, which I could clearly hear, and saying: ‘The meeting is all set.’ And I remember Mr. Trump saying: ‘O.K. good. Let me know,’” Mr. Cohen said.The president’s knowledge of the Trump Tower meeting has been at the center of questions about whether his campaign conspired with Russians to affect the outcome of the presidential election. Legal experts said Mr. Cohen’s testimony could be relevant to any case that might be built against the president by Mr. Mueller.In his remarks, Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump directed him to use Trump Foundation funds to acquire a portrait of Mr. Trump.“The portrait was purchased by the fake bidder for $60,000,” Mr. Cohen said. “Mr. Trump directed the Trump Foundation, which is supposed to be a charitable organization, to repay the fake bidder, despite keeping the art for himself.”Legal experts said that could be a civil violation of state laws governing charitable foundations. Mr. Trump’s foundation has been under investigation for its operations, including similar purchases of another portrait.In December, the foundation announced it would shut down after the New York attorney general accused it of “functioning as little more than a checkbook to serve Mr. Trump’s business and political interests.”Among the allegations Mr. Cohen made during his testimony was that Mr. Trump had tried to inflate his own net worth to Deutsche Bank when he approached the bank about lending him money to buy the Buffalo Bills.To back up his claim, Mr. Cohen provided the committee financial documents that listed Mr. Trump’s personal assets and liabilities in 2011, 2012 and 2013.Providing false information to a bank to get a loan can lead to charges of bank fraud or conspiracy, according to legal experts. But the process of determining the value of property is also highly subjective, which could limit the president’s legal exposure.In hours of testimony, Mr. Cohen mostly touched on legal questions that have already been in public view. But legal experts said it was important to remember how much legal work had been kept secret by the prosecutors running the various investigations.That reality was underscored when Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi, Democrat of Illinois, asked Mr. Cohen whether there was “any other wrongdoing or illegal act that you are aware of regarding Donald Trump that we haven’t yet discussed today.”Mr. Cohen’s answer was tantalizing: “Yes, and again those are part of the investigation that’s currently being looked at by the Southern District of New York.”He did not elaborate.OpinionNoah BookbinderAdvertisement
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
AdvertisementSupported byBy David EnrichAs President Trump delivered his inaugural address in 2017, a slight woman with feathered gray hair sat listening, bundled in a hooded white parka in a fenced-off V.I.P. section. Her name was Rosemary T. Vrablic. She was a managing director at Deutsche Bank and one of the reasons Mr. Trump had just taken the oath of office.It was a moment of celebration — and a moment of worry for Ms. Vrablic’s employer.Mr. Trump and Deutsche Bank were deeply entwined, their symbiotic bond born of necessity and ambition on both sides: a real estate mogul made toxic by polarizing rhetoric and a pattern of defaults, and a bank with intractable financial problems and a history of misconduct.The relationship had paid off. Mr. Trump used loans from Deutsche Bank to finance skyscrapers and other high-end properties, and repeatedly cited his relationship with the bank to deflect political attacks on his business acumen. Deutsche Bank used Mr. Trump’s projects to build its investment-banking business, reaped fees from the assets he put in its custody and leveraged his celebrity to lure clients.Then Mr. Trump won the 2016 election, and the German bank shifted into damage-control mode, bracing for an onslaught of public scrutiny, according to several people involved in the internal response.In the weeks before Ms. Vrablic attended his swearing-in, the bank commissioned reports to figure out how it had gotten in so deep with Mr. Trump. It issued an unusual edict to its Wall Street employees: Do not publicly utter the word “Trump.”More than two years later, Mr. Trump’s financial ties with Deutsche Bank are the subject of investigations by two congressional committees and the New York attorney general. Investigators hope to use Deutsche Bank as a window into Mr. Trump’s personal and business finances.Deutsche Bank officials have quietly argued to regulators, lawmakers and journalists that Mr. Trump was not a priority for the bank or its senior leaders and that the lending was the work of a single, obscure division. But interviews with more than 20 current and former Deutsche Bank executives and board members, most of them with direct knowledge of the Trump relationship, contradict the bank’s narrative.Over nearly two decades, Deutsche Bank’s leaders repeatedly saw red flags surrounding Mr. Trump. There was a disastrous bond sale, a promised loan that relied on a banker’s forged signature, wild exaggerations of Mr. Trump’s wealth, even a claim of an act of God.But Deutsche Bank had a ravenous appetite for risk and limited concern about its clients’ reputations. Time after time, with the support of two different chief executives, the bank handed money — a total of well over $2 billion — to a man whom nearly all other banks had deemed untouchable.Kerrie McHugh, a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, said: “We remain committed to cooperating with authorized investigations.”The White House referred questions to the Trump Organization. A company spokeswoman, Amanda Miller, declined to comment.In the late 1990s, Deutsche Bank, which is based in Germany, was trying to make a name for itself on Wall Street. Its investment-banking division went on a hiring binge.The bank recruited a handful of Goldman Sachs traders to lead a push into commercial real estate. One was Justin Kennedy, the son of Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy. Another was Mike Offit, whose father was the writer Sidney Offit.At Deutsche Bank, Mr. Offit’s mandate was to lend money to big real estate developers, package the loans into securities and sell the resulting bonds to investors. He said in an interview that one way to stand out in a crowded market was to make loans that his rivals considered too risky.In 1998, a broker contacted him to see if he would consider lending to a Wall Street pariah: Mr. Trump, who was then a casino magnate whose bankruptcies had cost banks hundreds of millions of dollars.Mr. Offit took the meeting.A few days later, Mr. Offit’s secretary called him. “Donald Trump is in the conference room,” she whispered. Mr. Offit said he rushed in, expecting to find an entourage. Mr. Trump was alone.He was looking for a $125 million loan to pay for gut renovations of 40 Wall Street, his Art Deco tower in Lower Manhattan. Mr. Offit was impressed by the pitch, and the loan sailed through Deutsche Bank’s approval process.Mr. Trump seemed giddy with gratitude, Mr. Offit recalled. He took Mr. Offit golfing. He flew him by helicopter to Atlantic City for boxing matches. He wrote a grateful note to Sidney Offit for having “a great son!”Mr. Offit commissioned a detailed model of 40 Wall Street. A golden plaque on its pedestal bore the names and logos of Deutsche Bank and the Trump Organization. Mr. Offit gave one to Mr. Trump and kept another in his office.Mr. Trump soon came looking for $300 million for the construction of a skyscraper across from the United Nations headquarters. The loan was approved. He wanted hundreds of millions more for his Trump Marina casino in Atlantic City. Mr. Offit pledged to line up cash for that, too.Not long after, Edson Mitchell, a top bank executive, discovered that the signature of the credit officer who had approved the Trump Marina deal had been forged, Mr. Offit said. (Mr. Offit was never accused of forgery; the loan never went through.)Mr. Offit was fired months later. He said it was because Mr. Mitchell claimed that he was reckless, a charge Mr. Offit disputed.It was the first hiccup in the Trump relationship. It would not be the last.Over the next few years, the commercial real estate group, with Mr. Kennedy now in a senior role, kept lending to Mr. Trump, including to buy the General Motors building in Manhattan. Occasionally, Justice Kennedy stopped by Deutsche Bank’s offices to say hello to the team, executives recalled.At an annual pro-am golf tournament the bank hosted outside Boston in the early 2000s, Mr. Trump sat down for a recorded interview with the bank’s public relations staff, who asked about his experience with Deutsche Bank.“It’s great,” Mr. Trump exclaimed, according to a person who witnessed the interview. “They’re really fast!”In 2003, a Deutsche Bank team led by Richard Byrne — a former casino-industry analyst who had known Mr. Trump since the 1980s — was hired to sell bonds on behalf of Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts. Bank officials escorted Mr. Trump to meet institutional investors in New York and Boston, according to an executive who attended.The so-called roadshow seemed to go well. At every stop, Mr. Trump was greeted by large audiences of fund managers, executives and lower-level employees eager to see the famous mogul. The problem, as a Deutsche Bank executive would explain to Mr. Trump, was that few of them were willing to entrust money to him.Mr. Trump requested an audience with the bank’s bond salesmen.According to a Deutsche Bank executive who heard the remarks, Mr. Trump gave a pep talk. “Fellas, I know this isn’t the easiest thing you’ve had to sell,” the executive recalled Mr. Trump saying. “But if you get this done, you’ll all be my guests at Mar-a-Lago,” his private club in Palm Beach, Fla.The sales team managed to sell hundreds of millions of dollars worth of bonds. Mr. Trump was pleased with the results when a Deutsche Bank executive called, according to a person who heard the conversation.“Don’t forget what you promised our guys,” the executive reminded him.Mr. Trump said he did not remember and that he doubted the salesmen actually expected to be taken to Mar-a-Lago.“That’s all they’ve talked about the past week,” the executive replied.Mr. Trump ultimately flew about 15 salesmen to Florida on his Boeing 727. They spent a weekend golfing with Mr. Trump, two participants said.A year later, in 2004, Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts defaulted on the bonds. Deutsche Bank’s clients suffered steep losses. This arm of the investment-banking division stopped doing business with Mr. Trump.Around that time, Mr. Trump returned to Deutsche Bank’s commercial real estate unit — which was housed in a separate part of the sprawling investment-banking division — for another loan. This one was to build a 92-story skyscraper in Chicago, the Trump International Hotel and Tower.Josef Ackermann, the bank’s chief executive, had publicly promised soaring profits, and with many of the company’s businesses sputtering, the investment-banking group was under intense pressure to grow.As Deutsche Bank considered making the loan, Mr. Trump wooed bankers with flights on his private plane, according to a person familiar with the pitch. In a Trump Tower meeting, he told Mr. Kennedy that his daughter Ivanka would be in charge of the Chicago project, a sign of the family’s commitment to its success.But there were warning signs.Mr. Trump told Deutsche Bank his net worth was about $3 billion, but when bank employees reviewed his finances, they concluded he was worth about $788 million, according to documents produced during a lawsuit Mr. Trump brought against the former New York Times journalist Timothy O’Brien. And a senior investment-banking executive said in an interview that he and others cautioned that Mr. Trump should be avoided because he had worked with people in the construction industry connected to organized crime.Nonetheless, Deutsche Bank agreed in 2005 to lend Mr. Trump more than $500 million for the project. He personally guaranteed $40 million of it, meaning the bank could come after his personal assets if he defaulted.By 2008, the riverside skyscraper, one of the tallest in America, was mostly built. But with the economy sagging, Mr. Trump struggled to sell hundreds of condominium units. The bulk of the loan was due that November.Then the financial crisis hit, and Mr. Trump’s lawyers sensed an opportunity.A provision in the loan let Mr. Trump partially off the hook in the event of a “force majeure,” essentially an act of God, like a natural disaster. The former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan had called the financial crisis a tsunami. And what was a tsunami if not a natural disaster?One of Mr. Trump’s lawyers, Steven Schlesinger, told him the provision could be used against Deutsche Bank.“It’s brilliant!” Mr. Schlesinger recalled Mr. Trump responding.Days before the loan was due, Mr. Trump sued Deutsche Bank, citing the force majeure language and seeking $3 billion in damages. Deutsche Bank countersued and demanded payment of the $40 million that Mr. Trump had personally guaranteed.With the suits in court, senior investment-banking executives severed ties with Mr. Trump.Not long after Mr. Trump got the Chicago loan — but before it went south — Deutsche Bank was expanding its private-banking division, which served the superrich. Executives said they set out to hire Ms. Vrablic, whom they viewed as the best private banker in New York.Traditionally, private bankers discreetly manage customers’ wealth and act as high-end concierges. Ms. Vrablic, who started her career as a bank teller and then worked at Citigroup and Bank of America, did that and more. She also arranged large real estate and commercial loans for her best clients.To lure her, Deutsche Bank guaranteed that she would earn at least $3 million a year, unusually rich terms for a private banker, and would bypass a layer of management to report directly to Thomas Bowers, the head of the American wealth-management division, according to people familiar with her contract.“Rosemary is widely recognized as one of the top private bankers to the U.S. ultra high-net-worth community,” Mr. Bowers said in a September 2006 news release. Deutsche Bank took out an ad in The Times to celebrate the arrival of her and a few colleagues.Ms. Vrablic’s superiors encouraged her to make loans that rival banks dismissed as too large or complex. They saw it as a way to elbow into the hypercompetitive New York market.In 2010, Deutsche Bank and Mr. Trump settled their litigation over the Chicago loan. Mr. Trump agreed to repay most of what he owed by 2012, Mr. Schlesinger said.One of Ms. Vrablic’s clients was Jared Kushner, who married Ivanka Trump in 2009. Mr. Kushner regarded Ms. Vrablic as the best banker he had ever worked with, according to a person familiar with his thinking.Shortly after the Chicago lawsuit was settled, Mr. Kushner was told that Mr. Trump was looking for a loan and introduced him to Ms. Vrablic, according to people familiar with the relationship.Mr. Trump flew Ms. Vrablic to Miami to show her a property he wanted to buy: the Doral Golf Resort and Spa. He needed more than $100 million for the 72-hole property.Deutsche Bank dispatched a team to Trump Tower to inspect Mr. Trump’s personal and corporate financial records. The bankers determined he was overvaluing some of his real estate assets by as much as 70 percent, according to two former executives.By then, though, Mr. Trump had become a reality-TV star, and he was swimming in cash from “The Apprentice.” Deutsche Bank officials also were impressed that Mr. Trump did not have much debt, according to people who reviewed his finances. Aside from his history of defaults, he was an attractive borrower.Mr. Trump also expressed interest in another loan from the private-banking division: $48 million for the same Chicago property that had provoked the two-year court fight.Mr. Trump told the bank he would use that loan to repay what he still owed the investment-banking division, the two former executives said. Even by Wall Street standards, borrowing money from one part of a bank to pay off a loan from another was an extraordinary act of financial chutzpah.Ms. Vrablic and Mr. Bowers tentatively agreed to both loans.Because these would be the private bank’s first transactions with Mr. Trump, they needed approval up the chain of command.Investment-banking executives, including Anshu Jain, who would soon become Deutsche Bank’s co-chief executive, pushed back. Lending to Mr. Trump again would be foolish, they argued, and signal to clients that they could default and even sue the bank.Executives in the private bank countered that the proposed loans had Mr. Trump’s personal guarantee and therefore were low risk. And the Chicago loan, they noted, would lead to the repayment of tens of millions of dollars that Mr. Trump still owed the investment-banking division.A top executive with responsibility for the private bank discussed the loans with Mr. Ackermann, the chief executive, who supported them, according to two officials. A powerful committee in Frankfurt, which evaluated loans based on risks to the bank’s reputation, signed off.“There is no objection from the bank to proceed with this client,” wrote Stuart Clarke, the chief operating officer for the Americas, in a Dec. 5, 2011, email, according to a recipient.Deutsche Bank wired the money to Mr. Trump. The loans carried relatively low interest rates, executives said, but the business promised to be profitable: As part of the deal, Mr. Trump would hold millions of dollars in a personal account, generating fees for the bank.“I have no recollection of having been asked to approve that private-banking loan,” Mr. Ackermann said in an interview. He added: “I would have approved it, if it came to me, if it was commercially sound.”Ms. Vrablic’s relationship with the Trumps deepened.Deutsche Bank lent money to Donald Trump Jr. for a South Carolina manufacturing venture that would soon go bankrupt. It provided a $15 million credit line to Mr. Kushner and his mother, according to financial documents reviewed by The Times. The bank previously had an informal ban on business with the Kushners because Jared’s father, Charles, was a felon.In 2012, Jared Kushner recommended that the editor of The Mortgage Observer, one of the publications he owned, write a profile of Ms. Vrablic. The editor, Carl Gaines, knew Mr. Kushner was her client and objected, according to a person familiar with the exchange.“Just go meet with her,” Mr. Kushner said. “You’ll figure something out.”A gauzy profile of Ms. Vrablic was published in February 2013.Shortly afterward, the private bank produced a promotional video featuring some of its marquee clients. The video was played at a retreat for Deutsche Bank’s senior leadership in Barcelona. In it, Ivanka Trump extolled the private bank’s work with her family and thanked their relationship manager, according to two people who saw the video.In early 2014, Mr. Trump and his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, approached Ms. Vrablic about more potential loans.The owner of the Buffalo Bills had died, and the N.F.L. franchise was up for sale. Mr. Trump was interested, and he needed to show the league he had the financial wherewithal to pull off a transaction that could top $1 billion.Mr. Trump asked Ms. Vrablic if the bank would be willing to make a loan and handed over bare-bones financial statements that estimated his net worth at $8.7 billion.Mr. Cohen testified to Congress last month that the documents exaggerated Mr. Trump’s wealth. Deutsche Bank executives had reached a similar conclusion. They nonetheless agreed to vouch for Mr. Trump’s bid, according to an executive involved.Mr. Trump’s bid did not win, but another lending opportunity soon arose.A federal agency had selected Mr. Trump to transform the Old Post Office Building in Washington into a luxury hotel. But his financial partner — the private equity firm Colony Capital, run by Thomas J. Barrack Jr. — pulled out. Mr. Trump needed nearly $200 million.Because of his decades-long pattern of defaults and his increasingly polarizing political rhetoric — among other things, he had been spreading a lie about President Barack Obama being born overseas — Mr. Trump remained untouchable for most banks.Ms. Vrablic was willing to help.In a memo outlining the rationale for the Old Post Office loan, Ms. Vrablic said Mr. Trump was expected to add large sums to his brokerage account if he received the loan, according to an executive who read the document.This time, there was less internal opposition. One reason: Mr. Jain — by then the bank’s co-chief executive — had a solid relationship with Ms. Vrablic. Mr. Jain accompanied her to meetings with high-profile clients, and he praised her work to colleagues, multiple executives said.On a foggy Wednesday in February 2013, Ms. Vrablic and Mr. Jain went to Trump Tower to meet with Mr. Trump, according to two executives with knowledge of the meeting. Ms. Vrablic’s rapport with the client was immediately clear: Mr. Trump’s assistant greeted her as an old friend, and she seemed relaxed with Mr. Trump and his daughter, one executive said.They discussed Mr. Trump’s finances over lunch, and Mr. Jain said he was surprised by his low level of debt, the executives said. After lunch, Ms. Vrablic told her colleagues that Mr. Jain had sounded upbeat about Mr. Trump’s finances.A $170 million loan to pay for the overhaul of the Old Post Office went through in 2015, and Mr. Trump added more money to his brokerage account. (In May 2016, he reported up to $46 million of stocks and bonds in the account.)On Aug. 6, 2015, Mr. Trump participated in the first Republican presidential debate. He clashed with the Fox News moderator, Megyn Kelly. He flew back to New York early the next morning. That evening, he called in to a CNN talk show and said of Ms. Kelly that there was “blood coming out of her wherever.”In the intervening hours, Mr. Trump had used a black Sharpie to sign documents for another loan from Deutsche Bank: $19 million for the Doral resort. That brought to more than $300 million the total lent under Ms. Vrablic.On the campaign trail, rivals assailed Mr. Trump’s financial history. In response, he pointed to Deutsche Bank-funded successes like the Old Post Office project, now a gleaming hotel a few blocks from the White House.In early 2016, Mr. Trump asked Ms. Vrablic for one final loan, for his golf course in Turnberry, Scotland.Ms. Vrablic said yes, but a fight soon erupted.Jacques Brand, who was in charge of Deutsche Bank’s American businesses, angrily objected, partly because of Mr. Trump’s divisive rhetoric.Ms. Vrablic appealed the decision. Senior executives in Frankfurt, including Christian Sewing, who would become chief executive in 2018, were shocked that the private bank would consider lending Mr. Trump money during the campaign, bank officials said.The bank’s reputational risk committee killed the transaction in March 2016.That same month, as The Times was preparing an article about Mr. Trump’s excommunication from Wall Street, he cited his warm relationship with Deutsche Bank.“They are totally happy with me,” he said to The Times. “Why don’t you call the head of Deutsche Bank? Her name is Rosemary Vrablic. She is the boss.”After Mr. Trump won the election, Deutsche Bank’s board of directors rushed to understand how the bank had become the biggest lender to the president-elect.A report prepared by the board’s integrity committee concluded that executives in the private-banking division were so determined to win business from big-name clients that they had ignored Mr. Trump’s reputation for demagogy and defaults, according to a person who read the report.The review also found that Deutsche Bank had produced a number of “exposure reports” that flagged the growing business with Mr. Trump, but that they had not been adequately reviewed by senior executives.On Deutsche Bank’s trading floor, managers began warning employees not to use the word “Trump” in communications with people outside the bank. Salesmen who violated the edict were scolded by compliance officers who said the bank feared stoking public interest in its ties to the new president.One reason: If Mr. Trump were to default on his loans, Deutsche Bank would have to choose between seizing his assets or cutting him a lucrative break — a situation the bank would rather resolve in private.Two years after Mr. Trump was sworn in, Democrats took control of the House of Representatives. The chamber’s financial services and intelligence committees opened investigations into Deutsche Bank’s relationship with Mr. Trump. Those inquiries, as well as the New York attorney general’s investigation, come at a perilous time for Deutsche Bank, which is negotiating to merge with another large German lender.Next month, Deutsche Bank is likely to start handing over extensive internal documents and communications about Mr. Trump to the congressional committees, according to people briefed on the process.Ms. Vrablic, who is intensely private and rarely discusses her personal life with colleagues, declined to comment. People familiar with her thinking said she expected to be called to testify publicly on Capitol Hill.Emily Flitter and Ben Protess contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byTrumpism follows a historical pattern: Whenever black people make progress, white people respond forcefully.By Charles M. BlowOpinion ColumnistThe Mueller Report has landed … with a thud. According to summary findings released by Attorney General William Barr, the special counsel Robert Mueller’s nearly two-year-long investigation found no conspiracy between Donald Trump and his associates and Russia. The report would seem to support Trump’s mantra: No collusion. Trump will no doubt use these findings as a cudgel against future inquiries, regardless of merit.The report did not, however, exonerate Trump of obstruction of justice. I submit that we witnessed that Trump obstructed justice in open view, from the White House and on social media.And while Trump waged a two-year battle of slander and misinformation to defame the Mueller investigation, the majority of Democratic leadership did nothing to make the case that he had already reached the threshold of accountability, even without the report. Instead, they put too many eggs in the Mueller basket, and allowed Trump to move the goal posts. Indeed, now the goal posts are permanently affixed to skates.The best case against Donald Trump and the age of Trumpism has always been, and remains, the moral case. Criminality is only one facet of that, although it is the one that the courts and Congress can use to punish him.As for the people, the voters, it is the moral abomination of having a racist, sexist, child-caging, family-separating, Muslim-hating transphobe as president that must remain front and center. That is the only way to move beyond Trump in 2020.The Mueller report is a cautionary tale. There are no magic bullets, no devastating facts, no pivotal events that can undo what Trump has wrought. Trumpism is bigger than Trump. It is a rebranding of a consistent and increasingly resurgent strand of white American anxiety about primacy, privilege and displacement.The very symbols of Trumpism — the MAGA hats, the wall, etc. — are more than merely physical objects. They have long since transcended their original meaning and purpose. They are now emblems. They are now the new iconography of white supremacy, white nationalist defiance and white cultural defense.They are a form of white pride credentialing.In much the same way that the Confederate flag became a white supremacist signaling device, wearing the MAGA hat and self-identifying as a “Trump supporter” now serves the same purpose.The symbols are tangentially connected to Trump, but they also transcend him. They are a way of cloaking racial hostility in the presentable form of politics.This isn’t restricted to America. Much of the West is now in the grips of rising nationalism, in general, and white nationalism, in particular.Cultural forces are being marshaled against waves of immigrants from the South — primarily from Latin America in the United States and from Africa and the Middle East in Europe.In this way, nationalism has taken on an international solidarity. It is a multinational white tribalism on display, and what is being exposed will not easily be squelched or beaten back.In America, this recent rise of white nationalism follows a historical pattern: Whenever black people make progress, white people feel threatened and respond forcefully.Emancipation and the Civil War gave rise to the Ku Klux Klan, which formed just months after the war ended. The Supreme Court’s decision in Brown v. Board of Education, striking down racial segregation in schools, gave rise to the white supremacist Citizens’ Councils. The election of the first black president gave rise to the Tea Party, which was formed soon after Barack Obama was sworn in.Donald Trump took the anti-Obama energy the Tea Party had stirred and fashioned it into something more dangerous: a theology whose singular principle was white power, the power of white people to defend a country they believe they built and own, and the power of white people to excel even when they’re awful.Now, immigrants have become the “rising threat” that was once ascribed solely to black people. White people used the threat of “Negro domination” to call state constitutional conventions to write white supremacy into the constitutions of Southern states.Today the “threat” is a majority-minority country, and there is a move underway to get states to sign on to force a convention for the U.S. Constitution.As was reported on Bill Moyer’s website in 2017:“A constitutional convention, something thought impossible not long ago, is looking increasingly likely. Under Article V of the U.S. Constitution, if 34 state legislatures ‘issue a call’ for a constitutional convention, Congress must convene one. By some counts, the right wing only needs six more states. Once called, delegates can propose and vote on changes and new amendments to the U.S. Constitution, which, if approved, are currently required to be ratified by 38 states.”As the report points out, “once a convention is underway, all bets are off.” Anything can happen.What we are living through is not a battle but a war. It is far bigger and far more dangerous than Trump. And we will be engaged in the fight long after Trump has vanished, or has been vanquished.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and Instagram. Charles Blow joined The Times in 1994 and became an Opinion columnist in 2008. He is also a television commentator and writes often about politics, social justice and vulnerable communities.  @CharlesMBlow • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy William K. Rashbaum and Danny Hakim[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The New York attorney general’s office late on Monday issued subpoenas to Deutsche Bank and Investors Bank for records relating to the financing of four major Trump Organization projects and a failed effort to buy the Buffalo Bills of the National Football League in 2014, according to a person briefed on the subpoenas.The inquiry opens a new front in the scrutiny of Deutsche Bank, one of the few lenders willing to do business with Donald J. Trump in recent years. The bank is already the subject of two congressional investigations and was examined last year by New York banking regulators, who took no action.The new inquiry, by the office of the attorney general, Letitia James, was prompted by the congressional testimony last month of Michael D. Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, the person briefed on the subpoenas said. Mr. Cohen testified under oath that Mr. Trump had inflated his assets in financial statements, and Mr. Cohen provided copies of statements he said had been submitted to Deutsche Bank.The inquiry by Ms. James’s office is a civil investigation, not a criminal one, although its focus and scope were unclear. The attorney general has broad authority under state law to investigate fraud and can fine — or in extreme cases, go to court to try to dissolve — a business that is found to have engaged in repeated illegality.The request to Deutsche Bank sought loan applications, mortgages, lines of credit and other financing transactions in connection with the Trump International Hotel in Washington; the Trump National Doral outside Miami; and the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Chicago, the person said.Investigators also requested records connected to an unsuccessful effort to buy the Bills, the person said. Mr. Trump gave Deutsche Bank bare-bones personal financial statements in 2014 when he planned to make a bid for the team, The New York Times has reported. The deal fell through when the team was sold to a rival bidder for $1.4 billion.Mr. Trump worked with a small United States-based unit of Deutsche Bank that serves ultra-wealthy people. The unit lent Mr. Trump more than $100 million in 2012 to pay for the Doral golf resort and $170 million in 2015 to transform the Old Post Office Building in Washington into a luxury hotel.New Jersey-based Investors Bank was subpoenaed for records relating to Trump Park Avenue, a project it had backed.A spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank said on Tuesday that it had received the subpoena.Investors Bank declined to comment. The Trump Organization did not respond to requests for comment.The subpoenas are a culmination of months of threats from Ms. James that she would aggressively investigate Mr. Trump. In August, referring to the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, into Russian interference in the 2016 election, she said “the president of the United States has to worry about three things: Mueller, Cohen, and Tish James.”In her victory speech on the night she was elected in November, she said, “I will be shining a bright light into every dark corner of his real estate dealings, and every dealing, demanding truthfulness at every turn.” The next month, before taking office, she told NBC that “we will use every area of the law to investigate President Trump and his business transactions and that of his family.”Mr. Trump has a rich recent history of grievances against the New York attorney general’s office. Before former Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman resigned amid allegations of assault and abuse against women, he pursued cases against the Trump Foundation and Trump University. Mr. Trump has referred to him as “sleazebag AG Eric Schneiderman” and “Shady Eric.” He also assailed Mr. Schneiderman’s temporary successor, Barbara D. Underwood, and has referred to Ms. James as “yet another AG” who “openly campaigned on a GET TRUMP agenda.”“Will never be treated fairly by these people — a total double standard of ‘justice,’” he added on Twitter.In Congress, the House Intelligence Committee has been exploring real estate transactions related to Russia and other foreign interests, including Deutsche Bank loans to the Trump Organization.Follow William Rashbaum on Twitter at @WRashbaum; follow Danny Hakim on Twitter at @dannyhakim.Jesse Drucker contributed reporting.OpinionJed Handelsman ShugermanAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy William K. Rashbaum and Ben Protess[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]New York State regulators have issued an expansive subpoena to the Trump Organization’s longtime insurance broker, the first step in an investigation of insurance policies and claims involving President Trump’s family business, according to the company and a person briefed on the matter.The subpoena was served late Monday on the company, Aon, one of the largest insurance brokerage firms in the world, as part of an inquiry by the New York State Department of Financial Services.It came just days after Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former fixer and lawyer, indicated in congressional testimony that the Trump Organization inflated the value of its assets to insurance companies.The subpoena is the latest sign that the Trump Organization is facing scrutiny from multiple fronts — federal prosecutors, congressional Democrats, and now, insurance regulators.The Department of Financial Services does not conduct criminal investigations, nor does it have authority over Mr. Trump or the Trump Organization, but it can refer any possible illegal activity to prosecutors.The federal prosecutors in Manhattan have been investigating the Trump Organization’s role in hush money payments to women who claimed to have affairs with Mr. Trump. Mr. Cohen, who pleaded guilty to federal crimes in connection with those payments, has also told the prosecutors about irregularities in the company’s insurance practices, The New York Times reported last month.While the prosecutors are largely viewed as independent, the president and his allies have dismissed much of the other scrutiny as politically motivated.The subpoena from the state agency that regulates insurance, which is part of the administration of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat and vocal critic of Mr. Trump, landed on the same day that even broader scrutiny came to bear on the president, his administration and his business from House Democrats.The House Judiciary Committee on Monday unleashed a blizzard of 81 letters demanding documents from people and businesses, including President Trump’s company and several of his family members, kicking off the committee’s sweeping investigation into possible obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by Mr. Trump.The subpoena that was served on Aon contains no indication that the company or any of its employees engaged in misconduct, the person said. Nor does it specify any possible wrongdoing that is the focus of the inquiry by state regulators.Insurance brokers such as Aon help companies evaluate their risk and connect them with underwriters, the companies that offer the actual coverage. For this service, the brokers receive a fee or commission, usually paid by the client.The nine-page subpoena demands a broad range of materials regarding Aon’s business with Mr. Trump and the Trump Organization dating back to 2009, according to the person briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Among other things, it seeks copies of all communications between Aon and Mr. Trump and the Trump Organization, as well as all internal Aon documents relating to Mr. Trump and the company, the person said.The regulators are also looking at compensation for the current and former Aon employees who handled the Trump Organization account, seeking information about their incentives, bonus payments or commissions. They are seeking similar contracts and agreements between Aon and Mr. Trump.A spokeswoman for Aon, Donna Mirandola, said the company intended to cooperate, adding: “We do not comment on specific client matters.” The White House referred a request for comment to the Trump Organization, which did not respond to requests for comment. A spokesman for the Department of Financial Services declined to comment.The Department of Financial Services is a powerful agency that regulates and supervises the insurance industry — including brokers, brokerage firms and underwriters in New York — as well as banking and other financial institutions.The agency’s authority is limited to civil regulatory actions, although it can refer possible criminal conduct to the office of a local district attorney or the State Attorney General.However, under the New York State insurance law, the department, headed by Acting Superintendent Linda A. Lacewell, can take action against the companies and individuals it regulates, including brokers and underwriters. It can issue fines or a range of other penalties, including revoking their licenses to do business in New York.This is not the first time that the agency has examined the business practices involving the Trump Organization. In 2017, the agency scrutinized the company’s long relationship with Deutsche Bank, which the agency regulates and which is one of the president’s few lenders on Wall Street. The examination concluded without the agency taking any action against the bank.Mr. Cohen’s testimony, however, provides additional fuel to advance the insurance inquiry.At a hearing in front of the House Oversight Committee last week, when asked by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a New York Democrat, whether the president ever inflated his assets to an insurance company, Mr. Cohen simply replied, “Yes.”The New York regulators are requesting copies of the insurance policies ultimately issued to Mr. Trump and the Trump Organization, as well as applications and financial statements used to secure the policies, the person said.The subpoena requests that the materials — undoubtedly a vast swath of documents, data, emails, policies and other records — be turned over by March 19. The regulators will likely then issue additional subpoenas or requests to the underwriters and possibly other companies and individuals identified in response to this subpoena.It could take the agency’s investigators months to analyze all the information they collect.Maggie Haberman and Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byMaybe the president brilliantly played the media. Or maybe we just played ourselves.By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistMaybe we’ve had this all wrong.Maybe Donald Trump isn’t just some two-bit con artist who lucked his way into the White House thanks to an overconfident opponent. Or a second-rate demagogue with a rat-like instinct for arousing his base’s baser emotions and his enemies’ knee-jerk reactions. Or a dimwit mistaken for an oracle, like some malignant version of Chauncey Gardiner from “Being There.”Thanks to Robert Mueller, we know he isn’t Russia’s man inside, awaiting coded instruction from his handler in the Kremlin.Maybe, in fact, Trump is the genius he claims to be, possessed — as he likes to boast — of a “very good brain.”O.K., I don’t quite believe that. But going forward, it would be wise for all of his inveterate critics in the news media, including me, to treat it as our operating assumption. The alternative is to let him hand us our butts all over again, just as he did by winning the G.O.P. nomination and then the election, and then by presiding over years of robust economic growth.That should be the central lesson from the epic media fiasco of Russiagate.Let’s specify what the fiasco is not. It’s not that there was nothing for Mueller to investigate. It’s not that he uncovered no wrongdoing. It’s not that the president did not act in suspicious ways, epitomized by his appalling performance at Helsinki. It’s not that he didn’t lie and mislead, not least about his business ties in Russia. It’s not that the Trump campaign wasn’t studded with people who were, at a minimum, profoundly vulnerable to Russian blackmail. It’s not that the Kremlin didn’t actively seek to interfere in the election, with a favorable eye toward Trump’s candidacy. Pace the president and his sycophants — the ones who spent nearly two years casting aspersions on Mueller’s integrity, only to now hail his conclusions as dispositive — the nature and extent of Trump’s ties to Russia required a thorough investigation. It got done. Barring some major discrepancy between the attorney general’s summary of Mueller’s report and the report itself, it’s time to say: Case closed. Thank God the president is not a Russian stooge.The fiasco was to assume that the result of Mueller’s investigation was a foregone conclusion. And to believe that the existence of dots was enough to prove that they had to connect. And to report on it nonstop, breathlessly, as if the levee would break any second. And to turn Adam Schiff into a celebrity guest. And to belittle or exclude contrarian voices.Last July, I wrote of the special counsel’s inquiry: “The smart play is to defend the integrity of Mueller’s investigation and invest as little political capital as possible in predicting the result. If Mueller discovers a crime, that’s a gift to the president’s opponents. If he discovers nothing, it shouldn’t become a humiliating liability.” Instead, as Matt Taibbi perceptively observed last week, what we have is a W.M.D.-size self-inflicted media disaster, which ought to require some extensive self-criticism before we breathlessly move on to Trump’s latest alleged idiocy. Assume for a moment that Trump’s odd Russia behavior, including the obsequiousness toward Vladimir Putin and the routine eruptions against Mueller, was merely a way of baiting journalists for years.If so, he could hardly have played us better: He’d be the Keyser Söze of media manipulation. To adapt a line, perhaps the greatest trick Trump ever pulled was to convince the world his brain didn’t exist.There’s a simpler, opposite explanation: Trump was never sophisticated enough to have been involved in some high-flown conspiracy with Russia. It would have required too much guile. Forget Söze; think Inspector Jacques Clouseau. The difference between suspicious and shambolic behavior often depends on who is doing the watching. Where some see chaos, others detect patterns. From a certain distance, they can be hard to tell apart.For years I’ve bounced between these two interpretations of the president — at times astonished by his incompetence; at other times amazed by his cunning. There’s much about the world that Trump will never understand. What he knows, however, is that success is above all a matter of being seen (regardless of results); that the more one lies, the less people notice; that winning is a matter of playing by one’s own rules (and changing them as needed); that, while hope may be inspiring, rage is intoxicating.These ideas may be noxious, but they are also the fundamental political insights of our time.Whichever view one takes, Donald Trump has just won a major victory over his chosen political enemies, including this newspaper. Whether he’s achieved this through genius or luck, it would behoove us not to take him for a fool. This was the week to examine our own foolishness instead.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy David Enrich, Jesse Drucker and Ben ProtessDonald J. Trump was burning through cash.It was early 2016, and he was lending tens of millions of dollars to his presidential campaign and had been spending large sums to expand the Trump Organization’s roster of high-end properties.To finance his business’s growth, Mr. Trump turned to a longtime ally, Deutsche Bank, one of the few banks still willing to lend money to the man who has called himself “The King of Debt.”Mr. Trump’s loan request, which has not been previously reported, set off a fight that reached the top of the German bank, according to three people familiar with the request. In the end, Deutsche Bank did something unexpected. It said no.Senior officials at the bank, including its future chief executive, believed that Mr. Trump’s divisive candidacy made such a loan too risky, the people said. Among their concerns was that if Mr. Trump won the election and then defaulted, Deutsche Bank would have to choose between not collecting on the debt or seizing the assets of the president of the United States.Two of the people familiar with the loan request said the Trump Organization had been seeking to borrow against its Miami resort to pay for work on a golf property in Turnberry, Scotland.A Trump Organization spokeswoman, Amanda Miller, denied that the company had needed outside funding for Turnberry.“This story is absolutely false,” Ms. Miller said. “We bought Trump Turnberry without any financing and put tens of millions of dollars of our own money into the renovation, which began in 2014. At no time was any money needed to finance the purchase or the refurbishment of Trump Turnberry.”She did not specifically address whether the Trump Organization had sought a loan from Deutsche Bank.Troy Gravitt, a Deutsche Bank spokesman, declined to comment.The failed loan request is an untold chapter in Mr. Trump’s long and tortured relationship with the banking industry. It shows that he was actively engaged in running his business in the midst of the presidential campaign, and it is likely to attract scrutiny from Democrats on two House committees that are investigating his two-decade relationship with Deutsche Bank.In the early 1990s, Mr. Trump’s hotel and casino properties declared bankruptcy four times, leaving prominent banks, including Citicorp and Manufacturers Hanover, with painful losses. The real estate mogul was all but excommunicated from Wall Street.Deutsche Bank, which was eager to gain a foothold in the lucrative American market and more tolerant of risk than many of its rivals, filled the void. In 1998, it lent Mr. Trump $125 million for renovations on a Wall Street skyscraper. The relationship blossomed, and over the next 17 years, Deutsche Bank lent or participated in loans to Mr. Trump and his companies totaling more than $2.5 billion.Then, just as the first votes were being cast in the Republican presidential primaries, Mr. Trump’s lender of last resort got cold feet.The funding of Mr. Trump’s golf empire has been something of a mystery.In the decade before he was elected president, Mr. Trump’s company spent hundreds of millions of dollars buying or renovating about a dozen clubs and resorts around the world. Despite Mr. Trump’s self-proclaimed fondness for relying on debt, the Trump Organization has reported that it used its own money for most of the acquisitions and upgrades.A prominent golf journalist, James Dodson, said Mr. Trump’s son Eric had told him in 2013 that the company’s golf properties were funded by Russians. Eric Trump has denied making the comment.Mr. Trump did borrow money for some of his golf properties. In 2012, Deutsche Bank lent the Trump Organization a total of more than $100 million to finance the 72-hole Doral resort near Miami, home to the famed Blue Monster course.Two years later, the Trump Organization bought the Turnberry hotel and golf course for a reported $63 million. The course, which features sweeping views of the sea west of Scotland, has hosted the British Open several times.In 2014 and 2015, a Trump legal entity lent at least $96 million to the subsidiary that operated Turnberry, according to British regulatory filings. The next year, the Trump Organization would go back to Deutsche Bank for more.The relationship between Mr. Trump and Deutsche Bank had survived some rocky moments. In 2008, amid the financial crisis, Mr. Trump stopped repaying a loan to finance the construction of a skyscraper in Chicago — and then sued the bank, accusing it of helping cause the crisis. After that lawsuit, Deutsche Bank’s investment-banking arm severed ties with Mr. Trump.But by 2010, he was back doing business with Deutsche Bank through its private-banking unit, which catered to some of the world’s wealthiest people. That unit arranged the Doral loans, and another in 2012 tied to the Chicago skyscraper.Mr. Trump’s go-to in the private bank was Rosemary Vrablic, a senior banker in its New York office. In 2013, she was the subject of a flattering profile in The Mortgage Observer, a real estate magazine owned by Mr. Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who was also among her clients. In 2015, she arranged the loan that financed Mr. Trump’s transformation of Washington’s Old Post Office Building into the Trump International Hotel, a few blocks down Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House.In early 2016, as Mr. Trump was lending tens of millions of dollars to his campaign, his company contacted Ms. Vrablic about getting money for Turnberry, said two of the three people familiar with the request, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The proposal was to expand Deutsche Bank’s outstanding loans backed by the Doral by well over $10 million and to use the proceeds for work on Turnberry, the people said.Around the time that Mr. Trump was winning New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada, officials in the private-banking unit informed their superiors that they were inclined to provide him with the loan, according to one of the people familiar with the internal discussions.Senior executives in New York balked, arguing that Mr. Trump’s candidacy made such a loan unacceptably risky, the three people said. In part, they feared the bank’s reputation could be harmed if the transaction were to become public because of the polarizing statements Mr. Trump was making on the campaign trail.Officials in the private-banking unit protested that Deutsche Bank already had numerous outstanding loans to Mr. Trump and that there was no reason not to make another, two of the people said. The decision was appealed to Deutsche Bank’s top executives in Frankfurt.That was the first time that some senior officials realized the extent of their bank’s dealings with Mr. Trump, the three people said.The proposed loan was examined by an internal committee that is responsible for vetting transactions to ensure they do not pose serious risks to the bank’s reputation, the people said. That March, the committee unanimously rejected the loan.  Christian Sewing — who was in charge of Deutsche Bank’s wealth-management division and would become chief executive two years later — was among those who made the final decision, the people said.A Trump entity ended up lending at least $45 million to Turnberry that year, on top of the $96 million it had lent Turnberry in the previous two years.Even though the Deutsche Bank loan didn’t go through, it will most likely draw the interest of congressional Democrats.Representative Adam Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, which is investigating Russian efforts to interfere in the 2016 election, has said he wants to look closely at Deutsche Bank because of its past involvement in laundering money for Russian nationals. And Democrats on the House Financial Services Committee, overseen by Representative Maxine Waters, have been asking questions about Deutsche Bank’s loans to Mr. Trump since 2017.Mr. Schiff and Ms. Waters are planning to conduct a joint investigation of Mr. Trump’s involvement with Deutsche Bank.During the campaign, Mr. Trump sought to take advantage of that relationship when rivals painted him as a bad businessman who was frozen out of the mainstream financial system.The same month that Deutsche Bank rejected the loan proposal, Mr. Trump sought to blunt those attacks by citing his warm relationships with Wall Street firms. He singled out Deutsche Bank.“They are totally happy with me,” he told The New York Times in March 2016. “I do business with them today.”Susanne Craig contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byG.O.P. lawmakers who started by making excuses for the president’s most repulsive personal traits have now moved on to bedrock principles. They are headed for a reckoning.By Timothy EganContributing Opinion Writer The character sketch of Donald Trump by the keeper of his secrets was no surprise to anyone who has given a passing glance at the hulk of malevolence in the Oval Office. He cheats. He defrauds. He lies by way of respiration.He thinks his son is an idiot, and that only suckers served in Vietnam. He believes blacks are incapable of governing. He acts like a gangster. He stiffs contractors and pays off porn stars. We knew all of that. Getting it under oath from a man who was once executive vice president and special counsel to Trump just gave historians a formality for the obvious.But if Michael D. Cohen’s description of a president who morphed into “the worst version of himself” was not news, certainly the way Republicans took the baton from the ex-loyalist was. They have now become Trump’s fixers, doing his dirty work, issuing threats and ditching long-held principles like so many empty beer bottles thrown from a car.Cohen’s portrayal of the fraud in the White House, and the details of a Trump Organization run like a criminal enterprise, are not disqualifying to Republicans. Just the opposite. Trump is a racist, a con, a cheat, in Cohen’s words — but those are among the reasons people voted for him. Proving it only strengthens his standing with a large sector of the electorate and many members of Congress.When Cohen described how Trump would fail to pay people who’d done work for him, or weaseled his way out of his share of taxes, or inflated his assets for what sounds like insurance and bank fraud — well, those are marks of a good businessman who knows how to game the system.And when Cohen recounted Trump’s belief that he couldn’t name a country run by a black that wasn’t a “shithole,” he was also trashing the United States under President Barack Obama. But it’s an insult that has found a home in right-wing media.“Every day, most of us knew we were coming in and we were going to lie for him,” Cohen said of a typical shift at Trump Tower. Professional prevarication on behalf of Trump “was normalized,” he said. “And no one around him questioned it. In fairness, no one around him today questions it, either.”The hearing before the House committee proved his point. Did one Republican stand up and decry Cohen’s litany of presidential lies? They blasted Cohen the liar, but not the man he lied for. Did one Republican decry the $35,000 check — proof, as Cohen said, that “The president of the United States thus wrote a personal check for the payment of hush money as part of a criminal scheme to violate campaign finance laws”?It’s been clear, ever since the last of the never-Trumpers were rooted out of the party, that the G.O.P. would be an extension of the grime and grift of Trump’s personal brand. But now the enablers are willing to do what Cohen said he once did for Trump — take a bullet for him.Among Cohen’s duties as Trump fixer was to threaten people; he did this maybe 500 times, by his recounting. That job has been taken over by Republican elected officials like Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida. He threatened Cohen on the eve of his testimony, mentioning his family in an ominous tweet.Initially, Gaetz compared witness intimidation to the “marketplace of ideas.” Sure. In the same way that pushing someone in a wheelchair down a flight of stairs is like a sled ride. Gaetz has taken his tweet back, but his crude attempt at thuggery stands out for how loathsome his party has become.The creepy criminal world that surrounds Trump is not off-putting to many Republicans. It was R. Alexander Acosta who helped to negotiate the deal that gave a ridiculously low sentence to Trump’s billionaire buddy Jeffrey E. Epstein, accused of trafficking children for sex. Acosta is now Trump’s labor secretary, approved by the Republican Senate.Trump had called Epstein, who pled guilty to soliciting prostitution, “a terrific guy,” adding that, “It is even said that he likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the young side.” This is disgusting.Republicans who started down this road by making excuses for Trump’s most repulsive personal traits have moved on to bedrock principles. The party of deficit hawks didn’t blink at the trillion-dollar hole in the budget that came with the tax cut, so long as it gave Trump a “win.” They were fine with a president who sided with Vladimir Putin in a traitorous exchange in Helsinki. And the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, who has fashioned himself as an institutional guardian of the Constitution, threw that document in a dumpster after he backed Trump’s brazen violation of the separation of powers.They are headed for a reckoning. In years to come, people will ask, “What did we do to make sure our democracy is intact?” as Representative Elijah Cummings, the committee chairman, put it. For Trump’s new fixers, Cohen gave them an answer: “I did the same thing you’re doing now.”I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan).The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this article misstated the size of the budget deficit that accompanied the tax cut. It was in the trillions of dollars, not billions. It also described the House panel in the Michael Cohen hearing incorrectly. The House Oversight Committee is a standing committee, not a select one.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byHe doesn’t deserve blame for any specific attack. He does deserve blame for the increase in white-nationalist violence.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThe president of the United States suggested last week that his political supporters might resort to violence if they didn’t get their way.The statement didn’t even get that much attention. I’m guessing you heard a lot more about the college-admissions scandal than about the president’s threat of extralegal violence. So let me tell you a little more about the threat.In an Oval Office interview with writers from the right-wing news site Breitbart, President Trump began complaining about Paul Ryan. As speaker of the House, Ryan blocked efforts by other House Republicans to subpoena and investigate people on the political left. Trump’s loyal allies in the House “wanted to go tougher,” Trump said, “but they weren’t allowed to by leadership.”To Trump, the incident was part of a larger problem: “You know, the left plays a tougher game. It’s very funny. I actually think that the people on the right are tougher, but they don’t play it tougher. O.K.? I can tell you I have the support of the police, the support of the military, the support of the Bikers for Trump. I have the tough people, but they don’t play it tough — until they go to a certain point, and then it would be very bad, very bad.”[Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.]This wasn’t the first time Trump had mused about violence, of course. He has talked about “Second Amendment people” preventing the appointment of liberal judges. He’s encouraged police officers to bang suspects’ heads against car roofs. He has suggested his supporters “knock the hell” out of hecklers. At a rally shortly before 2018 Election Day, he went on a similar riff about Bikers for Trump and the military.I’m well aware of the various see-no-evil attempts to excuse this behavior: That’s just how he talks. Don’t take him literally. Other Republicans are keeping him in check. His speeches and tweets don’t really matter.But they do matter. The president’s continued encouragement of violence — and of white nationalism — is part of the reason that white-nationalist violence is increasing. Funny how that works.After Trump’s latest threat, I reached out to several experts in democracy and authoritarianism to ask what they made of it. Their answers were consistent: No, the United States does not appear at risk of widespread political violence anytime soon. But Trump’s words are still corroding democracy and public safety.His latest incitement fit a historical pattern, and one with “scary echoes,” as Daniel Ziblatt, who co-wrote the recent book “How Democracies Die,” told me. Trump combined lies about his political opponents — Democrats who need to be investigated (for made-up scandals) — with allusions to a patriotic, violent response by ordinary citizens. Latin American autocrats, including Hugo Chávez in Venezuela, have used this combination. So did European fascists in the 1930s.The United States, thank goodness, does not have armed citizen militias carrying out regular attacks, as those other countries did. But our situation is still worrisome. “Violent talk can, at minimum, encourage lone-wolf violence,” Steven Levitsky, Ziblatt’s co-author and a Harvard political scientist, said. “It can also slowly normalize political violence, turning discourse and ideas that were once unsayable and even unthinkable into things that are sayable and thinkable.”These risks are not just hypothetical. In 2017, a House candidate body-slammed a reporter who asked a probing question — behavior with no recent precedent. Trump praised the now-congressman, Greg Gianforte, for the assault. In the Bright Light Watch survey of political scientists late last year, only 49 percent said the United States did not tolerate political violence, a notable decline from earlier levels. Some respondents cited Gianforte.Statistics on hate crimes are notoriously unreliable, but the evidence strongly suggests that they’re rising. The F.B.I.’s data shows an increase. The Anti-Defamation League reports a 73 percent rise in “extremist-related killings” during the last four years. Not all attacks come from people who identify with the political right, obviously: The 2017 attempted mass murder of House Republicans on a baseball field is one horrific example. But most politically motivated attacks do indeed come from the right. Last year, 39 of the 50 extremist killings tracked by the A.D.L. were committed by white supremacists, and another eight were committed by killers espousing anti-government views. Drawing a direct line from the purveyors of hateful rhetoric to any specific hate crime is usually impossible. And it’s usually a mistake to try. The motive for these crimes — be it in New Zealand last week or Pittsburgh last year — is typically a stew of mental illness, personal anger and mixed-up ideology. Trump doesn’t deserve to be blamed for any specific crime. But he does deserve blame for the trend.It isn’t very complicated: The man with the world’s largest bully pulpit keeps encouraging violence and white nationalism. Lo and behold, white-nationalist violence is on the rise. You have to work pretty hard to persuade yourself that’s just a big coincidence.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byEssayBy Ben GreenmanMark Doten’s new novel, TRUMP SKY ALPHA (Graywolf, paper, $16), is a funny book and a sad one, a bright one and a dark one, a distant sci-fi dystopia and a ripped-from-the-headlines tragedy. It imagines a world in which the president — the actual current president, albeit in fictional form — has ordered a nuclear strike and wiped out much of the world’s population, after which he travels over what remains of the blasted planet in an obnoxiously lavish airship, dispatching a stream of dunderheaded, self-justifying tweets as he goes.A young female journalist named Rachel (working for a reconstituted version of this paper’s magazine) takes on an assignment to analyze the fate of topical satire in an apocalyptic world. She is a somewhat reluctant participant in the process, agreeing to write the article in exchange for the opportunity to visit the final resting place of her wife and daughter, both of whom were killed in the president’s Thanos-like extermination. In the process of sifting through the remnants of every meme, joke and viral comment, Rachel begins to piece together the outlines of a conspiracy that twines together the various uses of political humor as a weapon and the use of actual weapons.Whew. Summarizing Doten’s novel (or even beginning to summarize it, for those are only the broad outlines) is not easy, and that’s because it isn’t meant to be. The book acts both as a novel and as a searching, tortured position paper on the use of media, message and, especially, satire in our time.Political satire, of course, has existed almost as long as politics. When people with power act in ways that seem to run counter to good sense or commonly held ethical principles, what are people with less power supposed to do? They can revolt. They can suffer. Or, if they are writers, they can take up their pens against their sea of troubles. Each era has its satires: the Johnson administration got “MacBird!,” Barbara Garson’s mash-up of the Kennedy assassination with Shakespeare’s “Macbeth”; Nixon got, among many others, Philip Roth’s “Our Gang.”This seems like a time that demands more of the same, and then some. It’s a time of crisis, in which America is at odds with its allies, susceptible to manipulation by its adversaries and mired in endless infighting. More than ever, it feels as if we need the glint of satire, not as the light at the end of the tunnel but as the light in the tunnel.There has been no shortage of Trump satire, and while much of it has been on the small screen — this is a golden age, or at least a glittery one, for topical television comedy — some has been between the covers. Alec Baldwin joined forces with Kurt Andersen on “You Can’t Spell America Without Me,” which both extended its title with a lengthy subtitle (“The Really Tremendous Inside Story of My Fantastic First Year as President Donald J. Trump”) and extended Baldwin’s “Saturday Night Live” parody of the president into a more traditional Oval Office diary. The British author Howard Jacobson published “Pussy,” a scabrous satire that imagines Trump as a faltering scion of a powerful family. Satirists are even targeting beginning readers: The comedian Michael Ian Black published “A Child’s First Book of Trump,” and the writing staff of John Oliver’s “Last Week Tonight” created a book for Mike Pence’s pet rabbit Marlon Bundo. I even wrote a Trump book of my own, “Don Quixotic,” which collected a series of short fictions that were originally posted on social media, in discomfort and then disbelief, over the course of the 2016 election season.But Trump satire can be a difficult row to hoe. For starters, Trump is almost impervious to it. An aspiring satirist might look at some of the president’s lesser Twitter typos, for example, and imagine more outlandish ones: He writes “boarders” instead of “borders”? That’s hilarious, but imagine if he couldn’t spell “hamburgers”! Or maybe it’s worth lampooning the president’s penchant for taking credit where credit isn’t due. What if he announced an Independence Day celebration as if he had invented the holi. … Oh. That happened? If reality consistently beats you to your punch, you’re not writing satire. You’re writing episode recaps ahead of time. It’s one of the reasons that many of the political skits on “SNL” these days use chunks of actual transcripts, heightening them slightly rather than starting with a fresh premise. It’s an open question whether Trump has truly descended into self-parody or whether he has just learned to co-opt the strategies of those who would use satire to hold him to account. (See: Giuliani, Rudolph W.) But what is a closed question is that his descent or co-optation swallows the process. Subjecting him to ridicule is like pushing tacks into one of those giant gummy bears. All your sharp points just end up lost in there.So how can satire be heard in a climate like this? By becoming louder and crasser. Subtle jabs are increasingly replaced by sledgehammer blows, clever insinuations by clumsy insults. Couple that with the fact that the practitioners of satire, or what passes for it these days, have proliferated greatly. On almost any day, on almost any topic, social media disgorges tens of thousands of not-quite-funny, not-quite-insightful exercises in topical vitriol. They come from the right. They come from the left. They come from a seemingly bottomless well. While there’s nothing inherently wrong with outrage, it’s also not inherently artful. In fact, it works like a drug, ensuring that readers become resistant to anything without the equivalent levels of vitriol. (My book made Trump look like a fool at times, and at other times not, and people objected to the times that it did not. By sympathizing with him even for a minute, even in fiction, even for the purposes of trying to understand his thought process, I wasn’t doing enough to illustrate that he was evil. I was letting him off easy, I was part of the problem, an apologist, complicit or worse.)Trump’s evident egomania, which seems in no danger of waning, also games the system so that satire cannot function correctly. The more perceptive satires not only speak truth to power, but also interrogate the societies that enabled that power to move into place. It’s not just a matter of identifying a culprit, but of turning a mirror to society, as in the finale of Virginia Woolf’s “Between the Acts,” when a theatrical pageant gives way to a group of actors onstage holding mirrors up to the audience. (I have always thought that Woolf’s description of the mirror-bearers — “malicious; observant; expectant; expository” — neatly defines the four corners of satirical thinking.)Most Trump satire doesn’t implicate the rest of us. It implicates the rest of them, expressing shocked disbelief at the base that continues to back him despite his increasingly indefensible behavior. It labels them “other” and calls it a day. This leaves everyone at loggerheads. It makes of satire a frozen obelus, as dependent upon divisiveness as the president himself. Reflection and introspection are not inherently part of satire. Jonathan Swift, no amateur, wrote in his preface to “The Battle of the Books” that “satire is a sort of glass wherein beholders do generally discover everybody’s face but their own.” But without such things, Trump’s America is just two rows of gargoyles passing a microphone back and forth, never not scowling.This brings us back to “Trump Sky Alpha.” Doten has set himself an ambitious agenda. He wants to satirize the president, but also to investigate the way that the president resists satire, and he has cannily constructed a fictional machine that both attacks the problem and pre-emptively defends itself against shortfalls or insufficiencies. Trump floats out of reach, surveying what he has rubbled, which includes thousands of attempts to hold him accountable. Sound familiar?Doten’s machine is fueled by extensive research, largely on the origins and implications of the internet; the author’s acknowledgments list nearly a dozen books that helped him refine his thinking, including Frederic Jameson’s “The Geopolitical Aesthetic” and Janet Abbate’s “Inventing the Internet.” But Doten’s method carries the seeds of its own undoing. The density of his treatment is dizzying at times, and the difficulty of sifting through this (often brilliant) welter can inflate and elevate simpler elements. This can help the novel (Doten writes extremely moving scenes around Rachel and her suffering), but it can also hurt it, since the simpler element that becomes inflated and elevated is Trump himself.The passages in which the president rambles on are not materially different from a hundred other Trump impersonations. They can feel a bit obvious, at least in comparison to the disturbing tapestry that surrounds them, which makes the fact that they offer pleasurable relief frustrating. In the end, Doten’s novel is both an illustration of how Trump and Trumpism have hamstrung public discourse and a set of instructions for untying ourselves: Remain vigilant. Remain skeptical. Question everything. Even the satires.Ben Greenman is the author, most recently, of “Don Quixotic.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Yesterday’s testimony by Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former personal lawyer, before the House Oversight Committee was full of theatrics. But between allegations of presidential lawbreaking and racism were revelations about how the Trump Organization operated. They weren’t flattering.Mr. Trump inflated his net worth to apply for bank loans, according to Mr. Cohen. When he asked Deutsche Bank for financing to buy the Buffalo Bills, he claimed to have $4 billion in unquantified “brand value.” He also exaggerated the value of properties, according to financial statements that Mr. Cohen gave to the House.Democratic lawmakers pushed Mr. Cohen to talk about other kinds of fraud. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, for instance, asked him whether Mr. Trump inflated the value of assets when insuring them. “Yes,” he replied.The testimony may have hurt Mr. Trump’s inner circle. Potential victims: Donald Trump Jr. and Allen Weisselberg, the Trump Organization’s C.F.O., both of whom were said to have played a role in hush-money payments to the porn star Stormy Daniels; Ivanka Trump, who was involved in plans to build a tower in Moscow; and Jay Sekulow, a White House lawyer whom Mr. Cohen accused of altering testimony to Congress.Mr. Cohen hinted that more could be revealed. He told lawmakers that he couldn’t answer questions about his last conversation with the president because it was “being investigated right now” by federal prosecutors.Mr. Trump’s woes certainly aren’t over. Five House committees are investigating his business dealings, and federal prosecutors in New York are still looking at matters that involved Mr. Cohen.Robert Lighthizer, the president’s top trade adviser, warned lawmakers yesterday that hurdles remained to reaching a significant trade deal with China, Ana Swanson of the NYT reports:Plans to raise tariffs on Chinese goods are officially axed. Mr. Lighthizer, testifying before the House Ways and Means Committee, confirmed that the U.S. wouldn’t raise levies on $200 billion in Chinese imports after March 1.Mr. Lighthizer still plans to play hardball. He “told lawmakers that he and his negotiators are maintaining a tough line with the Chinese,” Ms. Swanson writes, “repeatedly using the word ‘if’ when talking about the potential for reaching a deal with Beijing.”And he insists that President Trump isn’t losing patience. “His instructions to me are: You have to get a great agreement. If we have no agreement, we’ll just wait until we can get a great agreement,” Mr. Lighthizer said.But success isn’t guaranteed. “Is this perfect? I’m not going to say it’s perfect,” Mr. Lighthizer said of the evolving deal. “But at least it’s leading to results where everything else didn’t.”More: The U.S. trade deficit in goods widened by 10 percent in December, despite the administration’s attempts to shrink it.The main topic at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, this week has been the long-hyped next generation of wireless networks, known as 5G, Adam Satariano of the NYT writes.The F.C.C.’s chairman says America is winning the race. “In my view we’re in the lead with respect to 5G,” the chairman, Ajit Pai, told the WSJ. He believes the agency is making progress in selling the necessary wireless spectrum and overhauling infrastructure.Not everyone agrees. Brent Skorup, who sits on the F.C.C.’s Broadband Deployment Advisory Committee, writes in a WSJ op-ed that “the U.S. has stumbled,” but “still has time to catch and pass China, the current leader — if the right policies are put in place on both the local and federal levels.”“A widely available, reliable 5G network will require hundreds of thousands of new transmitter sites, and on that score the U.S. trails badly,” Mr. Skorup writes. Private industry will need to collaborate with the federal government, he cautions, adding that “with a combination of responsible use of public assets and light-touch regulation of 5G services, we can still win this race.”More: Here are all the 5G handsets announced so far.Today was supposed to bring a denuclearization deal between America and North Korea. Instead, officials abruptly cut short a summit meeting between President Trump and North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. “Sometimes you have to walk,” Mr. Trump said at a news conference today.Blame sanctions. Mr. Trump told reporters that North Korea wanted all of the punishing economic sanctions against the country lifted, but America wouldn’t cooperate unless Mr. Kim agreed to give up all of his nuclear weapons.The announcement was a surprise, in part because Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim appeared to be getting along well. At one point, Mr. Trump called his counterpart “my friend.”The collapse of the talks was “a diplomatic failure after he had hoped his second summit with Kim, following their meeting last summer in Singapore, would produce demonstrable progress toward North Korea’s denuclearization,” the WaPo reports. Mr. Trump insisted that the two countries could resume talks in the future.A week ago, the British prime minister was on the brink of resignations by cabinet officials and a crushing defeat in Parliament over her Brexit plan. Now, she has won another two weeks to tweak her agreement and convince lawmakers to back it.Mrs. May won a set of votes last night that had previously threatened to undermine her control of the Brexit process. The victory followed a partial surrender: She agreed on Tuesday to give Parliament the option of seeking to delay Britain’s exit from the E.U.“Theresa May is closer to leading Britain out of the European Union with a Brexit deal than at any other point since her negotiations with Brussels began,” Therese Raphael of Bloomberg Opinion writes. Hard-line Euroskeptic M.P.s like Jacob Rees-Mogg have softened their opposition to Mrs. May’s plans, fearing that the alternative might be remaining in the E.U.But her offer of a potential delay could fall apart. President Emmanuel Macron said France might veto such a move “without a clear understanding of the aim that’s being pursued.”More: Britain’s opposition Labour Party formally backed a new referendum on Brexit. Britain won approval to remain in a key World Trade Organization agreement. And Norway’s $1 trillion wealth fund said it would continue to invest in Britain, on the basis that its 30-year time horizon wasn’t affected by political issues like Brexit.News stories about Americans outraged by smaller tax refunds are everywhere. But Neil Irwin of the Upshot says the furor isn’t rooted in logic.• “The tax law that President Trump signed at the end of 2017 reduced the average American household’s 2018 average federal income tax obligation by about $1,600, according to an analysis by the Tax Policy Center.”• But it meant that many workers prepaid less tax. The average tax refund filed through mid-February was down 17 percent from the same time last year, according to the I.R.S.• A dollar today is worth more than a dollar tomorrow, Mr. Irwin notes — which means a lower initial bill is worth more than a bigger refund.• Economists remain baffled by the phenomenon of people even wanting refunds. “Why do they want to make interest-free loans to the government?” asks Richard Thaler, the Nobel-winning economist.Car ownership is falling out of fashion — under pressure from rising prices, tightening environmental rules, ride-hailing competition and the promise of a self-driving future. In its latest cover story, Bloomberg Businessweek argues that trend could continue:• “A decade ago the auto industry predicted annual global vehicle sales would top 100 million by now, but they’ve stalled instead, falling to 94.2 million last year, down 1 million from 2017.”• “Major urban centers such as London, Madrid, and Mexico City are restricting cars’ access. Such constraints, plus the expansion of the sharing economy and the advent of the autonomous age, have made automakers nervous.”• “ ‘When you put all these trends together, you’re going to see a cap on personal vehicle ownership start to emerge,’ says Mike Ramsey, an automotive consultant with researcher Gartner Inc. ‘We are near peak car.’ ”• “Rather than signaling the end of the road for the automobile, peak car is a reflection that reurbanization and the widespread adoption of mobile apps that can summon a vehicle on demand will lessen the need for many of the 1.3 billion vehicles now on the road.”• “Automakers may talk a good game about moving metal, but increasingly they’re chasing profits expected to come from services that charge by the mile.”A new World Bank report examined 35 indicators of legal equality in 187 countries to understand how easy it is for women to work and earn money.It rates only six countries as giving women full legal equality: Belgium, Denmark, France, Latvia, Luxembourg and Sweden. By its measures, none did so a decade ago. America isn’t even in its top 60 countries for legal environments that help promote gender parity in the workplace.That’s a problem. “Economies that failed to implement reforms toward gender equality over the past 10 years, for example, saw a smaller increase in the percentage of women working overall and in the percentage of women working relative to men,” Kristalina Georgieva, the World Bank Group’s interim president, writes.“If women have equal opportunities to reach their full potential, the world would not only be fairer, it would be more prosperous as well,” she said in a statement. “Change is happening, but not fast enough.”More: How income inequality can affect mental health.CBS reportedly plans to choose its next chief executive by the end of March, with the interim C.E.O., Joseph Ianniello, and Hasbro’s chief, Brian Goldner, seen as front-runners.The law firm Freshfields hired Aimen Mir, a former Treasury Department official who oversaw the American panel responsible for national security reviews of transactions, as a partner.DealsOne of Bristol-Myers Squibb’s biggest shareholders, Wellington Management, opposes its $74 billion bid for Celgene. (WSJ)Elliott Management has demanded seats on the boards of several Hyundai companies. (Bloomberg)The German pharmaceutical and chemicals company Merck bid $5.9 billion to buy Versum Materials, in the hope of breaking up a deal with a rival, Entegris. (FT)Disney is reportedly in talks to buy AT&T’s 10 percent stake in the streaming service Hulu. (Variety)KKR and Tencent Music are said to be weighing potential investments in Vivendi’s Universal Music unit. (Reuters)Politics and policyThe attorney general for the District of Columbia has subpoenaed documents from President Trump’s inaugural committee. (NYT)The House voted yesterday to require background checks for all gun buyers, the biggest gun-control bill that it has passed in 25 years. (NYT)Beto O’Rourke is reportedly close to announcing that he will run for president in 2020. (Dallas Morning News)State intervention in companies is making a comeback in Europe. (Bloomberg)TechHere are 10 breakthrough technologies that Bill Gates says will change the world. (MIT Technology Review)Could Elon Musk talk himself into a Tesla buyout? Also, look out for an announcement from the company at 5 p.m. Eastern today. (Breakingviews, Twitter)Facebook says it fired an employee who leaked internal communications about content moderation to a group accusing the company of bias against conservatives. (Verge)The F.T.C. announced a $5.7 million settlement with Musical.ly over accusations that the company’s app illegally collected children’s personal information. (NYT)Best of the restWhy are there suddenly so many $100 bills? (CNBC)As its economy sags, China is reportedly facing job losses and troubling infrastructure debt. (CNBC, WSJ)The venture capitalist Michael Moritz will sponsor the Booker Prize for the next five years. (FT)How debt makes the markets volatile. (WSJ op-ed)The stock rout at the end of 2018 reportedly wiped $1 trillion off the fortunes of the world’s richest individuals. (AP)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byA reality show president can’t control the narrative of all these hearings.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistIn 1983, the married sociologists Gladys Engel Lang and Kurt Lang published “The Battle for Public Opinion,” a book that sought to explain how Americans, in less than two years, went from overwhelmingly re-electing Richard Nixon to largely supporting his impeachment.The Watergate scandal, after all, wasn’t a complete surprise. There was evidence of a White House connection to the break-in before the 1972 election; a George McGovern campaign ad featured a montage of damning Watergate headlines while a narrator intoned: “This is about hidden funds. This is about deception. This is about the White House.” But somehow, the story didn’t stick. “The problem it signified was outside the range of and remote from most people’s immediate concerns,” the Langs wrote. The details were confusing, “their import difficult to fathom.”The television broadcast of two series of congressional hearings helped change that. First there was the Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities, widely known as the Ervin committee, starting in May 1973. These hearings didn’t result in a profound swing against Nixon, but they transfixed the public and caused people to take the administration’s misdeeds more seriously. By the time they were over, “Watergate” had transformed from shorthand for a bungled burglary into a metonym for a much wider range of administration corruption.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Then came the House Judiciary Committee hearings on impeachment in 1974. Its final deliberations weren’t a trial, but according to the Langs, viewers experienced them that way, so that public debate came to revolve around the question of Nixon’s guilt or innocence. On Aug. 5, definitive proof of his guilt emerged: the “smoking gun” recording of Nixon agreeing to a plan to have the C.I.A. ask the F.B.I. to stop investigating Watergate. After that, wrote the Langs, “the inexorable logic of the facts” led to the president’s downfall.We are about to find out whether facts still have an inexorable logic. The outlines of Donald Trump’s venality and fundamental civic disloyalty have been obvious since the 2016 campaign; Hillary Clinton warned us about him just as McGovern had warned about Nixon. But so far, neither Democrats nor prosecutors have woven the various threads of presidential wrongdoing into a coherent picture, showing how Trump’s shady business practices, opaque finances, vulnerability to blackmail, abuses of power and subservience to foreign autocrats all intersect.Now, however, Democrats have begun a full-spectrum public investigation of the president. Michael Cohen’s blockbuster testimony before the House Oversight Committee last week was just an opener. On Monday, the House Judiciary Committee took the first steps in an inquiry into obstruction of justice, public corruption and abuses of power by the Trump administration. In an operatic legal fusillade, it sent document requests to 81 people and entities, including Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, the National Rifle Association and Allen Weisselberg, the chief financial officer of the Trump Organization. They have two weeks to respond. (Ivanka Trump is not on the list, but the requests that went out call for numerous documents about her, and the committee has said that more requests could be forthcoming.)“To me it’s a thrilling moment,” Jamie Raskin, a Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, told me. Finally, he said, “we have an opportunity to discover what has been happening in our country over the last two years and several months.”Not long after news of the document requests broke, the heads of three committees — Oversight, Foreign Affairs and Intelligence — released letters to the White House acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, and to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo seeking documents related to Trump’s communications with President Vladimir Putin of Russia. They’re seeking to interview Trump’s translators and anyone else privy to his talks with Putin. Should the White House refuse those requests, a legal fight could ensue. “We’re willing to take it as far as we need to get the answers,” Adam Schiff, head of the House Intelligence Committee, told me.Next week, Schiff’s committee will conduct a public interview with Felix Sater, a felon with ties to both organized crime and American intelligence agencies who was at the center of negotiations for a proposed Moscow Trump Tower. “We’ve chosen to focus early on the Moscow Trump Tower deal because it’s among the most graphic examples of how a candidate or president’s focus on making himself money can come at the cost of what’s in the best interests of our country,” said Schiff.Given the polarization in our politics, there’s no reason to expect the coming hearings to change many minds. What they can do, potentially, is put the question of Trump’s criminality at the center of political life, just as the Watergate hearings did with Nixon. They can create a narrative that even a reality TV impresario can’t control.It’s too early to know whether these investigations will lead to Trump’s impeachment. The important thing is that they lead to his exposure. Unlike Nixon, Trump lost the popular vote, and the majority of the country has consistently disapproved of him. He thus can’t afford even a small erosion of support. “You have to think of the Trump phenomenon as a religious cult surrounding an organized crime family,” said Raskin. “But at the outer perimeters people are starting to melt away. And Michael Cohen’s departure is a signal moment in the evolution of the Trump phenomenon. He is the innermost sycophant to break ranks.” Soon America will be tuning in to find out who’s next.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThey’ve got better things to do in Dripping Springs.By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistSo. Michael Cohen started off his testimony by declaring that the president of the United States was “a racist,” a “con man” and a “cheat.” The Republicans who were supposed to be grilling him responded by saying … um.Well, mainly they complained that the hearing was happening. (“I am appalled. We could be focused on actual issues that are facing America, like border security.”)Nobody jumped up and yelled: “A racist? How dare you call this man a racist?” To be fair, one Republican committee member did demur, and brought in a black government appointee to stand there and look diverse.But you couldn’t say there were a lot of expressions of shock. Nobody announced having it on good authority that all those checks Cohen got from Trump were not reimbursements for the Stormy Daniels payoff, but rather anonymous donations to an orphanage.The Republicans simply argued, over and over, that the whole thing was a dumb waste of time.“I talked to my beautiful wife back in Dripping Springs, Tex., just before the hearing. I said, ‘Don’t bother watching,’” said Representative Chip Roy.The hearing was before the House Oversight Committee, which is, of course, now under new Democratic control. Cohen showed the members a $35,000 check that he said the president gave him as a partial repayment for the Stormy Daniels payoff.Nothing better than an evidence exhibit. But the public is so inured to Trump scandals now there’s almost no way to raise new excitement about Stormy’s sex-with-the-future-president story. Unless Cohen could have demonstrated that his then-boss wrote “hush money” on the check memo.Nevertheless, there are always new things to be learned.For instance, Cohen testified about Donald Trump Jr.’s role in the payoff deal. In passing, he said the president thought his son had “the worst judgment of anyone in the world.”Wonder how Junior reacted to that? This was presumably before Ivanka, who’s supposed to be the bright one in the family, denounced the idea of a guaranteed minimum wage because she felt all Americans “want to work for what they get.”Cohen claimed that in all his years of serving as Trump’s hatchet man he never once heard his boss “say anything in private that led me to believe that he loved our nation or wanted to make it better.”That could have been a cue for Republicans to offer up a multitude of examples to the contrary. But for the most part, all we got was one white male representative after another announcing that Cohen had to be ignored because he’s due to go to “prison for lying.”Almost everybody who knows Donald Trump appears to be going to prison for lying. Or is awaiting sentencing for lying. Or is facing charges of lying. If you are a Donald Trump intimate and the federal authorities come calling, be careful to tell the truth. Or move to Papua New Guinea.Even for the most jaded Trump watcher, there were parts of the Cohen testimony worth discussing. For instance, he said Trump threatened legal action to make sure his old high school, colleges and the College Board kept his grades and SAT score secret.Certainly not a surprise that Trump doesn’t want to publicize the details of his academic career. But still a great question to keep harping on, if only because it will drive him completely nuts. Maybe every day the House Democrats could make a speech about it on the floor. And introduce a C student with a sense of humor who could announce he’s proud to be following in the presidential footsteps of intellectual mediocrity.Cohen testified that Trump had him going back and forth with Forbes magazine in an attempt to get a good spot on the Wealthiest list. While simultaneously trying to push down the income he reported for tax purposes. Let’s hope the Democrats use it as another lever to get their hands on those tax returns. Truly that would be a development even better than calling Donald Jr. to testify about his role in the Cohen payments and his father’s assessment of his judgment.We certainly know that Cohen is not … perfect. After all, he spent 12 years as Trump’s lawyer. Representative Jim Jordan, the top Republican on the committee, even brought up Women for Cohen, an account put up to promote his little-known role as a “sex symbol.”But Cohen made a pretty good witness, looking appropriately miserable and answering questions convincingly, with some balance. He told the lawmakers rumors about a mystery tape showing Trump hitting his wife in an elevator were untrue and “in my opinion that’s not something he would do.” On the other hand, he said Trump did make him call Melania and lie about the Stormy Daniels unpleasantness.While all this was going on, the president was in Asia, dining with Kim Jong-un of North Korea. Previous negotiations with Kim have produced monster publicity and very little in the way of nuclear disarmament.Nevertheless, Trump seems to believe this may get him a Nobel Peace Prize. He really seems to want that a lot. Maybe if the Nobel committee offered to trade it for his tax returns …The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Peter BakerWASHINGTON — For President Trump, it may have been the best day of his tenure so far. The darkest, most ominous cloud hanging over his presidency was all but lifted on Sunday with the release of the special counsel’s conclusions, which undercut the threat of impeachment and provided him with a powerful boost for the final 22 months of his term.There are still other clouds overhead and no one outside the Justice Department has actually read the report by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, which may yet disclose damning information if made public. But the end of the investigation without findings of collusion with Russia fortified the president for the battles to come, including his campaign for re-election.While critics will still argue about whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice, the president quickly claimed vindication and Republican allies pounced on their Democratic colleagues for what they called an unrelenting partisan campaign against him. Even as his own party’s congressional leaders called on the country to move on, however, the president indicated that he may not be ready to, denouncing the very existence of Mr. Mueller’s investigation as “an illegal takedown that failed” and calling for a counterinvestigation into how it got started.Emboldened and angry, the president can now proceed with his administration without the distraction of new search warrants and indictments by Mr. Mueller’s team or the worry that the special counsel might charge Mr. Trump’s family members or even uncover a smoking gun that would prove that his campaign collaborated with the Russian government to elect him in 2016. The questions about the Kremlin’s election interference that dogged the president almost everywhere he went may soon fade, even as other investigators continue to look into other allegations.Mr. Mueller’s team confirmed that Russia did try to tilt the election to Mr. Trump, but its conclusion that he did not conspire with the effort may ease the way for Mr. Trump to reorient American foreign policy toward Moscow and its strongman president, Vladimir V. Putin, without as much concern about domestic consequences. And it may give renewed confidence to Mr. Trump, who has complained that his dealings with world leaders have been hobbled by their uncertainty about whether he would survive the investigation.The end of Mr. Mueller’s inquiry also left Democrats on the defensive and will force them to decide how vigorously to continue pursuing allegations of misconduct by the president and his allies, including many that were unexamined by the special counsel, whose mandate was limited to Russia’s interference in the election and any possible obstruction of justice resulting from it.While Mr. Trump claimed that Mr. Mueller’s findings were “a complete and total exoneration,” Mr. Mueller explicitly said they were not. Although he did not establish a conspiracy with Russia, Mr. Mueller made no determination when it came to obstruction of justice. “While this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,” he wrote, according to the Justice Department summary sent to Congress.Instead, according to the summary, Mr. Mueller laid out various actions by Mr. Trump that could be seen as obstruction, letting others decide whether they added up to that. William P. Barr, the attorney general recently appointed by Mr. Trump after drafting a private memo expressing doubt that the president could be accused of obstructing justice for exercising his constitutional power, concluded on Sunday that they did not.But the House, controlled by Democrats, has the power under the Constitution to decide for itself whether the president’s actions constituted “high crimes and misdemeanors” that justify impeachment, and it could interpret Mr. Mueller’s evidence the other way once it sees it.The next phase of the story, then, will be the fight by House Democrats to force Mr. Barr to turn over Mr. Mueller’s full report and accompanying evidence, a constitutional battle that could ultimately be resolved in the courts.Until they read the report for themselves, Democrats are hardly going to agree that the president has been cleared. And they will most likely summon Mr. Mueller to testify, which could provide a public airing of Mr. Trump’s actions that, even if not rising to a crime, may not reflect well on the president.Still, Speaker Nancy Pelosi has already said that she did not favor impeachment unless the evidence was “so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan,” a standard that seems even less likely to be met now.Either way, Mr. Mueller’s investigation has taken its toll on this presidency, leading to indictments, convictions or guilty pleas for a half-dozen of Mr. Trump’s associates, including his campaign chairman and national security adviser, and spawning offshoot investigations. In any other administration, that record alone would be enough to seriously damage a president.Moreover, as Mr. Mueller closes up shop, federal, state and congressional investigators are still examining Mr. Trump’s business, his finances, his inaugural committee and his associates.Federal prosecutors in New York have implicated Mr. Trump in a scheme to violate campaign finance laws by directing hush money to two women to keep them from talking before the 2016 election about alleged extramarital affairs with him. The State of New York forced him to close his foundation after finding a “shocking pattern of illegality.” The House Judiciary Committee has sought documents from 81 people or entities associated with Mr. Trump on a wide variety of topics.But Mr. Mueller had bipartisan stature and credibility that none of the president’s other pursuers have, despite Mr. Trump’s own efforts to tear him down. Now the president who routinely assailed Mr. Mueller and his “13 Angry Democrats” for their “witch hunt” will surely use the results of the special counsel investigation to dismiss all others as part of a pattern of conspiracy mongering and vindictive persecution, whatever the facts may or may not show.He presumably will not convince his many critics of that, but he may reinforce his political base heading into a re-election battle where Mr. Trump’s ethical and legal issues will surely be a major focus of debate. In polls, core Republican voters have already expressed deep skepticism about the allegations against Mr. Trump and the legitimacy of the investigations into them.“Not indicted” or “not impeached” may not have been much of a bumper sticker in times past, but in today’s polarized political environment, each side sees these issues through its own lens.The notion that the system came after Mr. Trump in the form of Mr. Mueller and failed to take him down will fit neatly into the president’s narrative of grievance and victimization, energizing his self-portrayal as a threat to the existing order.For Mr. Trump, that is as good a day as they come.Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Thursday. Happy Pi Day! (As in 3.14)Weather: Great news: It may reach 60 degrees today and tomorrow. Bad news: it may rain tomorrow.Alternate-side parking: In effect until March 21 (Purim).Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign manager, was indicted. (Again.)Mr. Manafort was also sentenced. (Again.)Two banks that financed Trump projects in New York and elsewhere were subpoenaed.And that’s just this week, when New York State officials took on a much bigger role in the investigations swirling around the president and his associates.Confused by the barrage of inquiries — and especially what New York officials are doing?Let us explain:Who is investigating in New York?• Attorney General Letitia James, a Democrat and vocal critic of Mr. Trump.• The state’s Department of Financial Services, which is part of Governor Cuomo’s administration. He is a Democrat and successfully campaigned for re-election last year on the theme of battling Mr. Trump.• The Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., a Democrat who said Mr. Trump’s policies and oratory undermine security efforts at home and abroad.What are they looking into?• Ms. James subpoenaed Deutsche Bank and Investors Bank, which financed Trump projects in New York, Chicago, Washington and Florida.• Financial Services issued an expansive subpoena to the Trump Organization’s longtime insurance broker, Aon.What happened to Mr. Manafort?• Mr. Vance charged Mr. Manafort yesterday with mortgage fraud and more than a dozen other felonies. That’s a state case.Earlier in the day, in Mr. Manafort’s federal cases, a judge sentenced him to more jail time, for a total of seven and a half years in prison, adding to an order from another judge last week.What is the role of the federal investigations?• There is overlap between some of the federal investigations and the recent state ones. One important difference is that as president, Mr. Trump has the authority to pardon someone convicted of federal crimes. Presidents cannot pardon someone convicted of state crimes.Why is all this happening now? • The inquiries by Ms. James and Financial Services came after congressional testimony last month from Mr. Trump’s former lawyer Michael Cohen. Under oath, Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump inflated the value of his assets in documents provided to Deutsche Bank as part of a bid to buy the Buffalo Bills.• Mr. Manafort’s state indictment came as a result of an inquiry that Mr. Vance’s office began in 2017. That investigation was postponed because it overlapped with another one by the federal special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.What are the politics?• Mr. Cohen’s congressional testimony is fueling the New York investigations. Democrats are facing pressure from their base to do something about Mr. Trump — investigate him, block him, impeach him.• Here’s what’s interesting: Mr. Trump has been operating in New York — which has no shortage of ambitious regulators — for decades. The inquiries may be new. Mr. Trump’s finances are not.• Of course, supporters of Mr. Trump will label the New York investigations as nothing more than an escalation of what he has termed a witch hunt. (The inquiry by Ms. James’s office is a civil investigation, not a criminal one. Financial Services is limited to civil regulatory actions, although it can refer possible criminal conduct to a local district attorney or the state attorney general.)Mr. Cali, 53, was shot six times last night outside his home, an official said.A neighbor said he heard a burst of gunshots shortly after 9 p.m.The Gambino family was once the nation’s largest and most influential organized crime group, but several of its leaders were convicted in the 1990s of crimes that included murder and racketeering.[Read the full story]A man bought a $238 million penthouse on Central Park South, and it may lead to the nation’s first tax on superluxury second homes.Birthday billboard for Dad: It had a phone number on it, and 20,000 strangers called with wishes.It could save their lives. So why don’t detectives always wear a bulletproof vest?A former New Jersey priest accused of sexual abuse was found shot to death in his Nevada home.Old rape kits finally got tested, and 64 attackers were convicted.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.The Chrysler Building may become a hotel, a new owner says. [Bloomberg]A lamb was rescued after it went running on the Gowanus Expressway. [Brooklyn Daily Eagle]Thousands of city students are anxiously waiting to find out if they were accepted into the public high schools they applied to. [WNYC]A chocolate festival is coming to Queens College on March 24. [QNS]Tomorrow is National Egg Cream Day. But the Museum at Eldridge Street is getting a day’s head start in celebrating with a workshop and contest to celebrate the classic Lower East Side drink. 6 p.m. [$10]Make your way to the Jamaica Center for Arts & Learning in Queens for a night of jazz. 8 p.m. [$10]The Museum of the City of New York will have a discussion on the film “El Pueblo Se Levanta” with Juan González, a founding member of the Young Lords, and Bev Grant, one of the film’s creators. 6:30 p.m. [$15]— Derek Norman Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.“Blue Marble” is the title of one of the first photos of our planet, taken from outer space in 1972.“It was the first-ever image we had of ourselves as a single unit,” said Sebastian ErraZuriz, a designer, artist and tech entrepreneur.It carried a profound message, he said: “Our destinies are fully tied; our differences are insignificant.”Now, Mr. ErraZuriz is bringing his version of that image to New York.He and his team are projecting live images of Planet Earth, taken from a NASA satellite, onto a giant outdoor LED screen at 159 Ludlow Street in Manhattan.The presentation is called “blu Marble” and runs until April 13.“There’s something really weirdly beautiful in realizing that we’re all together on that little rock,” ErraZuriz said in an interview. He jokingly compared the live-streamed images of Earth to a giant map.“It may be the most macro ‘You are here now’ one could possibly do,” he said.It’s Thursday — where are you?Dear Diary:We went to see Elton John at Madison Square Garden. Not an empty seat in the place, and he still rocks the house. The music covered us like a favorite old sweater.There was one big difference between the show at the Garden and the concerts of our youth. Instead of the smell of pot, there was a pronounced odor of Vicks in the air.— Jack Hartog New York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article misstated the location of a $238 million penthouse. It is Central Park South, not Central Park West.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBooks of The TimesBy Dwight GarnerWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.On the back cover of his new book, “The Threat: How the F.B.I. Protects America in the Age of Terror and Trump,” Andrew G. McCabe looks preposterously fit (he competes in triathlons). His hands are at his hips, gunslinger style. It’s as if he were a kind High Plains sheriff who had stumbled upon an intolerable rodeo of villainy.McCabe’s prose is lean, too. (Not that he wrote this book. In his acknowledgments, he thanks “a great writing and editing team.”) The first sentence demands to be read in the voice of Jack Webb from “Dragnet”: “Between the world of chaos and the world of order stands the rule of law.”McCabe is, of course, the former deputy director of the F.B.I. who was fired last March, just 26 hours before his scheduled retirement. He was briefly the F.B.I.’s acting director, after the dismissal of James B. Comey. The president hooted on Twitter: “Andrew McCabe FIRED, a great day for the hard working men and women of the F.B.I. — A great day for Democracy.”This lawman, a registered Republican for the entirety of his adult life, may have been driven out of Dodge. But he has dusted off his white hat and returned with a memoir that’s better than any book typed this quickly has a right to be.“The Threat” is a concise yet substantive account of how the F.B.I. works, at a moment when its procedures and impartiality are under attack. It’s an unambiguous indictment of Trump’s moral behavior. “Let me state the proposition openly,” McCabe writes. “The work of the F.B.I. is being undermined by the current president.”It’s a rapid-fire G-man memoir, moving from the author’s training in Quantico (shades of “The Silence of the Lambs”) through his experiences chasing the Russian mob, the Boston Marathon bombers and others. The book is patriotic and oddly stirring. It has moments of opacity, where you feel he is holding back at crucial moments, but it is filled with disturbingly piquant details.McCabe made headlines after a recent “60 Minutes” interview, during which he reported that top Justice Department officials, disquieted by Trump’s firing of Comey, discussed trying to encourage cabinet members to invoke the 25th Amendment to remove Trump from office. He also confirmed a New York Times report that the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, offered to wear a wire during his meetings with Trump.These stories, frustratingly, were in the TV interview but are not in this book. But there are many other gleanings.McCabe’s accounts of his baffled interactions with Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, would be high comedy if they were not so dire. They are a highlight, or a lowlight, of this book. We see a Sessions who is openly racist. “Back in the old days,” he says to the author about the F.B.I., “you all only hired Irishmen. They were drunks, but they could be trusted.”Sessions seemed not to read his daily briefings. He had “trouble focusing” and “seemed to lack basic knowledge about the jurisdictions of various arms of federal law enforcement.”Sessions concentrated almost solely on the immigration aspect of any issue, McCabe writes, even when there was no immigration aspect. Similarly, “Sessions spent a lot of time yelling at us about the death penalty, despite the fact that the F.B.I. plays no role of any kind in whether to seek the death penalty.”The portrait of Sessions is of a man for whom merely ordering lunch seems to be above the timberline of his intellect and curiosity.A recent cartoon in The New Yorker depicted a person feverishly covering two walls with a link chart, with names and Scotch tape and Magic Marker, of the Trump administration’s alleged misdeeds. Another person stands watching from a doorway. The caption is: “Hon, Mueller’s got this. Come to bed.”It turns out that Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, has strong opinions about charts. McCabe worked under him at the bureau. “He detested diagonal lines,” McCabe writes. “Some colors he liked. Some he didn’t.” McCabe explains the reasons for these preferences.He writes about Mueller: “Sometimes he would take out the chart and suddenly you would see his face fall, as if to say the kind of thing that he would rarely say: Who made this piece of crap?”Mueller is, in this book, the Mueller we have come to know: punctual, determined, the antithesis of casual, with a special loathing for people who speak when they don’t know what they are talking about.“Ball-busting is his way of expressing affection,” McCabe writes. “If he said, Where does a person even find a tie like that? I knew things were fine: He never went out of his way to insult anyone he didn’t actually like.”McCabe’s memoir joins a roster of recent and alarming books by high-ranking members of the United States’ justice and intelligence communities, each pushing back sharply against the president’s war on facts and competence.These books include Comey’s “A Higher Loyalty” as well as “The Assault on Intelligence,” by Michael V. Hayden, the former director of the National Security Agency, and “Facts and Fears,” by James R. Clapper Jr., the former director of national intelligence, written with Trey Brown.Each is its own Paul Revere ride of warning. Each is a reminder that we will be reading about Trump and his administration for the rest of our lives, for the exact opposite reason that we will also be reading about Lincoln and his for the rest of our lives.There’s much more in McCabe’s book. He’s good on things like what it’s like to take a polygraph test, and the fastest way to take off a seatbelt.He wades back through the big muddy of the Benghazi hearings. He writes of his fears about the increasing use of encryption.He spends a good deal of time talking about Hillary Clinton and her email server. He argues that Comey, whom he admires, made crucial mistakes in how he handled the matter. “As a matter of policy, the F.B.I. does everything possible not to influence elections. In 2016, it seems we did.”He recounts the attacks on his credibility, by Trump and others, after his wife, Jill, ran for Virginia’s State Senate as a Democrat in 2015. He hurt his own credibility, according to the F.B.I. inspector general, by making false statements about his contacts with the media.The Trump-bashing texts between Lisa Page and Peter Strzok, his F.B.I. subordinates, did something worse: They cast doubts about the impartiality of the agency. McCabe rushes past this material too swiftly. Yet if McCabe has made mistakes, his basic decency shines through in this memoir.He adds to our understanding of how deeply Trump remains under Vladimir Putin’s sway. After a North Korean ballistic missile test, Trump told an F.B.I. briefer that reports of the test were a hoax. McCabe writes, incredulously: “He said he knew this because Vladimir Putin had told him so.”About Trump, the author asks, “What more could a person do to erode the credibility of the presidency?” He watches this moral limbo dancer go lower and lower. Yet he sees the president as a symptom as much as a disease.“When is the right time,” he asks, “to give up on people’s general ability to understand any slightly complicated statement that they don’t agree with?”Follow Dwight Garner on Twitter: @DwightGarner.The ThreatHow the FBI Protects America in the Age of Terror and TrumpBy Andrew G. McCabe274 pages. St. Martin’s Press. $29.99.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe attorney general should open a special civil proceeding against the business and its officials.By Jed Handelsman ShugermanMr. Shugerman is a professor at Fordham Law School. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez was on to something. In her questioning of Michael Cohen, she asked if Donald Trump had ever provided “inflated assets to an insurance company.” He answered in the affirmative — and also testified to rampant tax fraud by Mr. Trump and allegedly by the Trump Organization officials Allen Weisselberg, Ron Lieberman and Matthew Calamari.The questioning apparently caught the attention of New York State regulators, who issued a subpoena for the Trump Organization’s insurance policies.State officials should not stop there. The allegations of criminal conduct by Donald Trump and Trump Organization officials are no longer mere speculation or reporting. The public record establishes probable cause for campaign finance felonies, and a potential case for criminal tax fraud, bank fraud, insurance fraud and suborning perjury to hide shady business dealings — a staggering mix of state and federal crimes implicating a range of Trump Organization officials.State attorneys general — especially New York Attorney General Letitia James — should not wait for any Justice Department official to hold Trump accountable for potential crimes. They also do not need to wait to build a case for criminal indictments. The appropriate immediate path is a special state civil proceeding against the Trump Organization and its officials.Legal status as a corporation endows businesses like the Trump Organization with great powers, and with those powers come specific responsibilities. To police these privileges, almost every state in the country has a statute that gives its attorney general the power to bring civil actions to investigate corporations for fraud and to go to court to dissolve the ones that persistently break the law. This statutory power descended from an old English proceeding called “quo warranto,” meaning “by what authority do you exercise legal power?” The question in this case is whether the Trump Organization has so abused its privileges that it has lost this legal authority.The Trump Organization is incorporated only in New York and Delaware, so New York officials have a unique role and responsibility. New York attorneys general have not used their power to dissolve corporations often, but as recently as 1994, they brought a civil action leading to the dissolution of a fraudulent entity. New York’s highest court has described this remedy of civil dissolution as a “judgment of corporate death,” and for the state to invoke such a corporate death penalty, the corporation’s “transgressions” must not be merely incidental, but “material and serious; and such as to harm or menace the public welfare.” In fact, the previous attorney general, Barbara Underwood, brought a similar action — to potentially dissolve fraudulent nonprofits — against the Trump Foundation. In June, Ms. Underwood filed a civil petition citing a long list of the Trump Foundation’s abuses of nonprofit privileges, including frauds to promote the Trump Organization and the Trump campaign. President Trump, his family members and Trump Organization officials like Mr. Weisselberg were frequently named in this petition — along with allegations of civil and potentially criminal wrongdoing. Six months later, the Trump Foundation agreed to its dissolution with judicial supervision, while the attorney general’s petition still seeks restitution and further judicial remedies).The allegations against the Trump Organization in the petition against the Trump Foundation, in combination with flagrant and systematic Emoluments Clauses violations, Mr. Cohen’s allegations and other public allegations about persistent tax schemes establish enough of a basis for Attorney General James to file a similar civil petition against the Trump Organization. A petition would then open a civil investigation into these allegations with the state using discovery to access documents and depositions to interview witnesses under oath.If the New York attorney general finds evidence of persistent fraud or abuse in the investigation, she can seek a court’s order to dissolve the organization. Like the petition in the Trump Foundation case, this petition could also ask the court to order the Trumps to “make restitution and pay all penalties” for their corporate fraud and abuse. But that’s not the only meaningful result. If a state civil investigation turned up more evidence of criminal fraud, state and federal prosecutors could use these findings to indict the Trump Organization and its officials, including Mr. Weisselberg. In addition to allegations of campaign finance felonies, Mr. Cohen also alleged that Mr. Weisselberg, along with the Trump Organization officials Mr. Lieberman and Mr. Calamari, engaged in insurance fraud, bank fraud and tax fraud by dishonestly inflating and then deflating the valuation of Trump assets for insurance, banking and tax advantages. Keep in mind that the Southern District of New York, when it was headed by Rudolph Giuliani in 1988, indicted a state legislator for overvaluing property and submitting false financial statements.In the current situation, the proceeding would start with a civil investigation of fraud, not a criminal investigation. In such a civil investigation, many Trump family members and Organization officials would probably invoke the Fifth Amendment’s privilege against self-incrimination, because testimony in a civil deposition could lead to criminal implications. But the investigation could turn up clear evidence of crimes, leading some of these officials to make cooperation deals with state prosecutors and perhaps waive their Fifth Amendment claims. That would allow them to admit their crimes and testify against higher officials.Mr. Weisselberg is more likely to cooperate if the New York attorney general and state prosecutors have already begun to investigate his conduct. President Trump cannot use a pardon to rescue Mr. Weisselberg from state prosecution; presidential pardons do not affect state criminal liability. Moreover, unlike federal prosecutors at the Southern District of New York or in Robert Mueller’s office, Mr. Trump cannot fire or interfere with them.The window for these prosecutions to move forward is closing. The states are a complementary law enforcement system, and they can do what Mr. Mueller might not be able to do: Send a message that the president is not above the rule of law.This state investigation might turn up evidence that President Trump committed crimes himself. If the Justice Department will not indict a sitting president, we must ask what is worse: the potential distraction of states indicting presidents, or the crisis for the rule of law of presidential immunity, especially during a re-election when those crimes may recur with the goal of four more years of impunity. If the specter of state indictments is unsettling, that is a reason to allow federal prosecutors to bring indictments instead, perhaps building on state officials’ findings. Indictments, even if trials are long delayed, at least serve an important message from law enforcement to society about legal norms. Even if justice is delayed, no one will be above the law.Jed Handelsman Shugerman (@jedshug) is a professor at Fordham Law School. He is a co-author on amicus briefs challenging President Trump's Emoluments Clause violations and his appointment of Matthew Whitaker as attorney general.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON — A last-ditch gambit to spare Senate Republicans a hostile showdown with President Trump over the Constitution’s separation of powers was torpedoed on Wednesday by the president himself, increasing the likelihood that the Senate will vote on Thursday to overturn the president’s emergency declaration and force the first veto of his term.Hoping to avoid a confrontation with Mr. Trump over his declaration of an emergency to build his coveted border wall, Republicans tried to rally behind legislation to limit the power of presidents to declare emergencies in the future while allowing the current president’s end-run around Congress.But Speaker Nancy Pelosi quickly derided that idea and then Mr. Trump threw cold water on it himself, phoning the Republican author of the new legislation, Senator Mike Lee of Utah, during a Senate luncheon to inform him it was no deal.As a result, Mr. Lee said he would now vote to end the emergency declaration, the fifth Republican “yes” vote — and other Republicans, with no alternative route, are likely to follow.“Unfortunately, it appears the bill does not have an immediate path forward, so I will be voting to terminate the latest emergency declaration,” said Mr. Lee, who had earlier said he did not think the president’s actions were unconstitutional.The outcome left Republicans with a difficult choice. They can back the president in what is widely seen as a surrender of Congress’s core power of controlling federal spending. Or they can join Democrats and break with a president who is popular within the party on his maneuver to build a wall that is also popular with Republicans.To Mr. Trump, the decision is not all that tough.“I think anybody going against border security, drug trafficking, human trafficking, that is a bad vote,” the president told reporters at the White House as he delivered another warning shot to Republicans who would dare to buck him. He also defended the constitutionality of his declaration despite the bipartisan refusal of Congress to fund the wall.“I think it is bad for a Republican senator — I also think it is bad for a Democrat senator — to vote against border security and to vote against the wall,” he said. “I think to vote that way is a very bad thing long into the future.”But Republicans are struggling with the vote. Conservatives such as Mr. Lee and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky — another Republican who says he will vote for the resolution of disapproval — believe that members of Congress have ceded far too much power to the executive branch over the years in an effort to avoid taking politically tough stances themselves. Republicans regularly accused President Barack Obama of executive overreach on issues such as immigration, health care and the environment and now risk being accused of hypocrisy if they stand by while Mr. Trump ignores Congress to do as he wishes.Many Republicans believe that allowing Mr. Trump to redirect money at his own discretion after Congress explicitly forbade it would amount to a final acquiescence to the executive branch that could set a precedent for future Democratic presidents. But they are also in no rush to irritate a president who has shown vast capacity to stir Republican voters or to rile the activist groups that back him.On Wednesday, The Hill newspaper reported that conservative groups such as the Club for Growth were considering backing a primary challenge next year to Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, because of his opposition to Mr. Trump on the emergency declaration and other issues.Looking for a way to not anger Mr. Trump and salvage some congressional pride, Mr. Lee introduced his proposal that would require Congress to approve any emergency declaration or it would terminate after 30 days at most. That would mean approval by Congress would be required rather than the current arrangement in which Congress is given the option of disapproving an emergency declaration and the president can veto it. Under the current legislative arrangement, Congress can block an emergency declaration only if opponents can muster the two-thirds vote to override a veto.“If we don’t want our president acting like a king, we need to start taking back the legislative powers that allow him to do so,” Mr. Lee said.The Lee bill, however, would have no impact on the president’s current emergency declaration. Republicans saw it as a way to both back Mr. Trump and close the door to future use of the declarations by presidents — notably Democratic presidents — to circumvent Congress.But the reception was not good. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, mocked the proposal as “bunk.”“What a fig leaf,” he exclaimed.Ms. Pelosi effectively killed it by declaring that the House would not even consider the plan. “Republican senators are proposing new legislation to allow the president to violate the Constitution just this once in order to give themselves cover,” she wrote in a statement on Wednesday morning. “The House will not take up this legislation to give President Trump a pass.”Even before he spoke to reporters, Mr. Trump took issue on Twitter with Republican senators and their reticence to back him.“Republican Senators are overthinking tomorrow’s vote on National Emergency,” the president said. “It is very simply Border Security/No Crime — Should not be thought of any other way. We have a MAJOR NATIONAL EMERGENCY at our Border and the People of our Country know it very well!”But the president’s stand only increased the likelihood that the Democratic resolution to block his emergency would pass — less than 24 hours after the Senate rebuked him on a separate issue by voting to end military assistance for Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen.While it would be a loss for Mr. Trump, it may not be as bad as it could have been.When the president first announced his determination to move forward with the emergency after signing a spending bill to end the government shutdown in February, there was significant dissent among Republican senators and the White House faced a wider revolt.In the interim, through a concerted personal campaign, Mr. Trump has had some success in limiting defections. Proponents of overturning the declaration are likely to be far short of the 67 Senate votes needed to override the promised veto.Still, congressional passage of a resolution of disapproval could help the plaintiffs in a number of lawsuits who are suing to block the declaration as a flagrant violation of the Constitution.Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistGRAND RAPIDS, Mich. — It was going to be epic, like those Roman triumph celebrations where the generals would ride in on a chariot decorated with gold and ivory, so drunk on power that a slave would have to walk behind, holding a wreath over the general’s head and whispering in his ear, “Remember you are mortal.”Against all odds, Donald Trump had won the day, leaving his enemies stunned. The president had wrested the “No Collusion” headline he dearly craved, and Thursday he would claim his laurels. It was a moment to strut and gloat and curse and insult. From the president’s point of view, which is the only point of view that matters to him, it looked like Watergate in reverse.This was the night for Smugness Maximus.Looking out at the sea of red MAGA hats, a cockier-than-usual Don Jr., who opened for his father, said that this week MAGA stood for “Michael Avenatti Got Arrested.” The bend-the-knee mood was best summed up by the T-shirt of a man with a goatee and neck tattoo: “BITCH I’M THE PRESIDENT!”Michigan was the place to rub it in, because it will always be remembered as a place Hillary forgot. It was strange, though, to have the victorious Vulgarian spewing bile right across the Grand River from the resting place of Gerald Ford, whose museum here offers words associated with Ford that seem quaint by Trump standards: Trustworthy, Respectful, Team Player, Compassion, Steady Leader.Talking to people out on the floor, it was clear that they expected this to be a special “lovefest,” as one put it. They were thrilled at the prospect that Trump would be “the beast unleashed,” as one man said, unburdened and with his shoulders held high and his stride more confident. A rallygoer likened it to cyclists getting to use two pedals of a bicycle when they had been able to use only one.Up in the stands, Juli Arndt waved a “Women for Trump” sign. She had left her husband in charge of their business, Corky’s Beal City Tavern, to make the hour-and-a-half trip here. “I knew there was no collusion. I just had a feeling. I trust him. The only thing he hasn’t done that he promised to do is put Crooked Hillary in jail.”I noted that Jared and Ivanka had also now landed in hot water for using private accounts for official business.“Not to that extent,” she said.And then Trump appeared, running hot at the start. His former campaign advisers Corey Lewandowski and David Bossie had been on Air Force One with him and they were no doubt pumping him up en route, whispering to him, “Remember you are immortal.” At the rally, Trumpsters treated the two swamp creatures like stars, asking them to autograph their merch.But Trump did not seem to be savoring his triumph so much as wallowing in his victimhood, in what he sees as the unfair attempt by “major losers” to treat his presidency as illegitimate. He does not get the irony, that the way he first made his name in national politics was painting Barack Obama as illegitimate.Robert Mueller may not have exonerated the president on obstruction, but the president, of course, exonerated himself, bragging at the rally, “total exoneration, complete vindication.”He denounced his tormentors in the Democratic Party and the media as “sick, sick” and, referring to his raft of critics on MSNBC, crowed that “their ratings dropped through the floor last night.” Because, in Trump’s simplistic mind, that is the worst thing that can happen to anyone.When Trump describes what he sees as the plot against him, it is a mirror image of what his foes see: a fraud perpetrated by corrupt people, “a sinister effort to undermine” the election and a poisoning of the national debate that has left us hurt and divided and “on artificial respirators,” tearing “the fabric of our great democracy.”Trump engaged in his usual weird meandering, saying of his voters: “I always say they came from the valleys. They came from the mountains, they came out of the damn rivers. I don’t know what you were doing in the river, but they came from the cities, they came and they came and they didn’t even know.”He was in such a good mood that he allowed himself a favorite indulgence: knifing a top adviser in the perfect setting. Just as he excluded devout Catholic Sean Spicer from a meeting with the pope in Rome, he humiliated Betsy DeVos in a town where many buildings bear her last name, having “overridden my people” by reversing her decision to cut funding for the Special Olympics.For the last hour of the speech, Trump went flat, simply resorting to golden oldies. (He had already managed to step on his own parade in the dumbest way possible against the recommendation of his top people and Kevin McCarthy when he jumped back into the quicksand of health care.)It’s not clear why, on a night when his aides promised high energy, he seemed to lose altitude. Did he miss having Mueller as a foil? Did he know in his heart that he was guilty of some of those sins? Is he tired of rallies even before the 2020 race gets well underway? Does he know that his “No Collusion” headline will not change the minds of all those Americans who disdain him? Or is he being a sore winner again?Maybe Trump, like America, is just tired of winning.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jim TankersleyWASHINGTON — President Trump is getting exactly what he wants on the economy, but it may not last.The Federal Reserve has abruptly stopped its march toward higher interest rates, as Mr. Trump demanded. The tax cuts he signed in late 2017 are in full swing. His attempt to rewrite the global rules of trade are underway, and he proclaims himself happy with the array of new tariffs he has imposed. His recent comments suggest he is unconcerned about slowdowns in China and Europe, which he considers economic rivals.But while Mr. Trump points with pride to last year’s economic growth and promises even faster growth to come, there are signs that his most dependable talking point is eroding. On Thursday, the Commerce Department issued a downward revision of its estimates for economic growth in the fourth quarter, pushing one measure of the full year’s growth down as well.Forecasters outside the White House, including officials at the Fed, expect growth to slow even more this year. Economic data suggests that slowdown is already underway in the first quarter. Manufacturing is losing some of its steam from last year’s rapid growth, and job creation is also moderating. Chief executives of some of the nation’s biggest companies see investment, hiring and sales growth all slowing this year. Three-quarters of business economists say they are more worried about growth undershooting their forecasts than overshooting it, and half have revised those forecasts downward for this year.White House officials see growth staying above 3 percent for the next few years — and potentially for an entire decade, provided Mr. Trump can continue carrying out his economic agenda, including another round of tax cuts, a $1 trillion infrastructure plan and additional deregulation.“The economy is roaring,” Mr. Trump said on Thursday night at a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich. “Our country has never done better economically.”Mr. Trump’s re-election could hinge on whether he is right about the economy, and nearly every other forecaster is wrong. If Mr. Trump is correct and growth surges again, he will enter 2020 with arguably the strongest economic record of any incumbent president facing re-election since Bill Clinton in 1996. But if he is wrong and the economy cools, Mr. Trump will have no one to credibly blame — and few places to turn for another jolt of stimulus if the United States slides into an economic contraction or recession.The Democrats who control the House have no desire to pass another round of tax cuts. The Fed, which has slowly raised rates to a range of 2.25 to 2.5 percent, has relatively few tools available to help lift the economy from a sharp downturn. Some Fed officials have begun to warn that they might need to cut interest rates later this year — further reducing the Fed’s ammunition to fight a recession — if growth disappoints.“At the moment, the risks from the downside scenarios loom larger than those from the upside ones,” Charles Evans, the president of the Chicago Fed, said Monday in Hong Kong. “If activity softens more than expected or if inflation and inflation expectations run too low, then policy may have to be left on hold — or perhaps even loosened.”Last week Mr. Trump again raised his bet on his ability to fuel a continuing boom in growth. He said he would nominate Stephen Moore, an architect of his campaign economic platform and a fellow critic of the Fed’s recent interest rate increases, to a seat on the Fed’s board of governors. If confirmed, Mr. Moore would become the first unabashed Trump loyalist on the board, and he would press officials to reduce rates in hopes of pushing annual growth to 4 percent.On Thursday, the Commerce Department said the economy slowed more sharply at the end of last year than previously reported, revising its estimate of fourth-quarter growth to 2.2 percent from 2.6 percent because of weaker spending by consumers and state and local governments, among other factors.Growth for the full year — as measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 — stands at 3.0 percent, down a bit from the initially reported 3.1 percent but still enough to allow Mr. Trump to claim to have achieved the first year of 3 percent growth since 2005. (That claim is somewhat misleading. Year-over-year growth has topped 3 percent several times in recent years, but not in the fourth quarter. An alternative measure of full-year growth for 2018, based on comparing calendar-year averages, was unrevised at 2.9 percent.)While Mr. Trump continues to predict robust growth, he is already trying to pin blame for any slowdown on the Fed, rather than any of his own policies.“We’re doing a good job,” he said in an interview last week on Fox Business Network. “And I think we have tremendous momentum right now. And you’re right, the world is slowing, but we’re not slowing.”He added that, “if we didn’t have somebody that would raise interest rates and do quantitative tightening,” we would have been at over 4 percent growth.Fifty-six percent of Americans approve of Mr. Trump’s handling of the economy, Gallup reports, the highest mark of his term and the best for a president since Barack Obama registered the same rating in March 2009. Surveys of consumer confidence remain strong, including a confidence index conducted for The New York Times by the online research firm SurveyMonkey, which has gained strength since Mr. Trump took office.Unemployment has dipped to 3.8 percent. Inflation remains subdued, and wage growth is accelerating.White House economists say the tax cuts Mr. Trump signed in 2017, for businesses and individuals, deserve much of the credit for the economy’s performance — and that they will deliver another strong year of investment and hiring in 2019.“Some folks have said that, ‘Oh, sure, we did have 3 percent growth, but that was a sugar high,’” Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said last week.“And our view is that it’s really not a sugar high at all,” he continued. “A sugar high would be: We spent a lot of money on Twinkies and now we are sorry we ate all those Twinkies, and we don’t have money left. But this is — we actually cut taxes to encourage people to build new factories. And we had new factories last year. We’re going to get more new factories this year, but we’re also going to get the output from the factories we built last year as they turn them on.”Outside economists are more pessimistic, citing drags on growth from Mr. Trump’s trade policies, slowdowns abroad and a fading consumer spending boost from the tax cuts. Fed officials said this week that their median prediction is now for 2.1 percent growth for the year. Their projections also foresee no interest rate increases in 2019 — down from a forecast of two in December and in line with Mr. Trump’s desire to halt rate increases — and officials announced they would end the reduction of their asset purchase program sooner than markets had expected.“I don’t believe there’s a lot of room for criticism if you believe the Fed should be easy this year — they are,” said Ellen Zentner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley. “The Fed has completely removed themselves from the equation, both in their rates path and their balance sheet.”Ms. Zentner forecasts 1.7 percent growth this year, largely as a result of slowing investment growth. That would mark a return to the Obama-era growth levels that Mr. Trump has said are now over.Mr. Trump could possibly influence the growth path on his own this year, positively or negatively. He could reach a trade agreement with China, bolstering business certainty and removing tariffs that have hurt American companies and consumers. He could also end tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, which have raised prices for companies that use foreign metals in their products.But Mr. Trump has also threatened to impose new tariffs on imported automobiles and auto parts from Europe and Japan, a move that economists, companies and lawmakers from both parties warn would be economically devastating to the auto industry and its customers.He has negotiated a new trade agreement with Canada and Mexico, but he needs Congress to approve it. Its fate is uncertain. He does not appear to be aggressively pushing for Congress to pass a large-scale infrastructure plan, though he has called for one, and a divided Congress is unlikely to approve one even if he did.A question mark could be government spending. Last year, Mr. Trump signed an agreement between Republicans and Democrats that increased defense and other domestic spending, which helped stimulate demand and growth in the economy. In his budget this year, Mr. Trump called for additional defense increases but cuts in domestic spending, which Democrats are certain to oppose.Complicating the conversation is the widening federal budget deficit, which hit a monthly record in February, according to the Treasury Department, and which the Trump administration predicts will soon top $1 trillion a year. The deficit has ballooned, even in a time of relatively rapid growth, because Mr. Trump’s tax cuts reduced tax revenues — both in absolute terms and compared with forecasts — and because of the spending increases he approved.It is unusual, historically, for presidents to pour fiscal stimulus onto an economy with already low unemployment. The decision to do so could tie Mr. Trump’s hands in a dire situation that most economists deem possible but unlikely — an economic contraction or recession this year.Democrats will be in no mood to give Mr. Trump another tax cut, in that case. The Fed could cut rates, but not by as much as it did in previous recessions. To combat each of the last three recessions, the Fed cut rates by at least five percentage points.Today, the Fed’s target interest rate sits between 2.25 and 2.5 percent. It does not appear to be rising anytime soon.That’s just how Mr. Trump wants it.Ben Casselman contributed reporting from New York.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, who has played down talk of impeachment for months, ratcheted up her objections to trying to remove President Trump from office in an interview published on Monday.“I’m not for impeachment,” Ms. Pelosi told The Washington Post Magazine in the interview, which was conducted last week.“Impeachment is so divisive to the country that unless there’s something so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan, I don’t think we should go down that path, because it divides the country,” she added. “And he’s just not worth it.”Ms. Pelosi has repeatedly made her aversion to impeachment clear in the past. But her remarks to The Post were more expansive than previous ones and are likely to irk some liberal rank-and-file members of Ms. Pelosi’s party trying to build support for it. Her remarks echoed the longstanding position of the House Judiciary Committee chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, who has said he does not want to move forward with impeachment unless he has substantial Republican support.The speaker and other party leaders believe that, barring a startling new revelation of wrongdoing, Democrats are better off trying to beat Mr. Trump at the polls in 2020 than going down the impeachment path. A failed attempt to impeach Mr. Trump and remove him from office, they fear, would only embolden the president’s staunchest supporters and could improve his odds of re-election.Instead, Democratic leaders have poured their energy into a growing list of investigations — into Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia, potential foreign financial leverage over his businesses or administration, and whether Mr. Trump or those around him obstructed justice, abused power or engaged in otherwise corrupt acts, among other topics.At least two wild cards remain: federal prosecutors in New York who are scrutinizing Mr. Trump’s business and inaugural committee, and Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel who is investigating the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia and whether the president obstructed justice. Mr. Mueller is believed to be nearing the end of his investigation.Pressed for her views on Mr. Trump’s fitness for office, Ms. Pelosi gave The Post an unsparing assessment, but said it was Democrats’ responsibility to draw attention to the effects of his policies.“I mean, ethically unfit, intellectually unfit, curiosity-wise unfit,” Ms. Pelosi said. “No, I don’t think he’s fit to be president of the United States.”Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byletterThere is a time limit on President Trump’s tenure, but Brexit has no “recall date,” a reader says.To the Editor:Re “E.U. Pushes Back Britain’s Exit Date, but Chaos Still Looms” (news article, March 22):We should appreciate that Brexit is Britain’s equivalent of our electing Donald Trump, only much worse. In both instances, a hard core of frustrated, resentful but highly motivated voters used their vote to “send a message” to what they regarded as out-of-touch elites in Washington, London or Brussels.In the United States, dangerous and deplorable as the result has been, there is an automatic “recall” date on the package of hopefully 2020, and, at worst, 2024. With Brexit, there is no recall date, and the result will likely be the ultimate diminution of Britain as a world political and economic power.Steven BavariaNorwalk, Conn.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas Fandos, Katie Benner, Maggie Haberman and Annie KarniWASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr and his team on Saturday pored over the highly anticipated report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, a senior Justice Department official said, preparing to deliver the investigation’s “principal conclusions” to jittery lawmakers and President Trump as soon as Sunday.Mr. Barr and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who appointed Mr. Mueller and oversaw much of his work, were cloistered inside the Justice Department debating how to present the findings. Mr. Mueller was not participating in the process, the official said.With little concrete information about the investigation circulating outside that tight circle, Washington was rife with speculation bouncing among reporters, lawmakers scattered across the country for their spring recess and lawyers for people involved in the case.Mr. Trump himself remained uncharacteristically silent. After months attacking Mr. Mueller’s inquiry as a partisan “witch hunt,” he had yet to comment on its conclusion by Saturday afternoon. Spending the weekend at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla., Mr. Trump was surrounded by members of his family and a larger coterie of aides than usual. He spent much of Saturday on the golf course and had lunch with Kid Rock, according to people familiar with his plans.Mr. Mueller delivered his report to Mr. Barr on Friday, signaling the end to a 22-month investigation into Russia’s efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election and any attempts by Mr. Trump’s associates to aid them. Mr. Mueller also examined whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice to try to protect himself or his allies from investigators.As part of the winding down of his investigation, Mr. Mueller’s office was handing off one of its remaining cases, a spokesman said on Saturday. Prosecutors in the United States attorney’s office in the District of Columbia will handle the sentencing of Rick Gates, the former Trump campaign deputy who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and lying to investigators and agreed to cooperate with the inquiry.Regulations governing the special counsel give Mr. Barr latitude to decide what, if anything, to share publicly. In a letter to Congress notifying lawmakers that he had the report, Mr. Barr said he planned to hand over to them, and by extension the public, a summary of Mr. Mueller’s “principal conclusions” as soon as this weekend. He wrote that he “remained committed to as much transparency as possible.”Only a few people in the Justice Department had seen the report and a copy had not been given to the White House, said the senior law enforcement official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal planning.The Justice Department appears to be moving quickly, at least in part because it has known for some time that Mr. Mueller was in the homestretch.When Mr. Barr was briefed on the investigation this month, he was told that there would be no more subpoenas or indictments, and that Mr. Mueller’s team was ready to wrap up in mid-March, according to people familiar with the investigation who were not authorized to discuss it. The special counsel’s office later notified Mr. Barr that it needed a few additional days to take care of administrative issues, which pushed the delivery to Friday.Without certainty about what Mr. Barr would disclose or when, House Democrats convened a 30-minute conference call on Saturday afternoon to line up talking points. Democrats led by Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California have begun insisting that only the release of Mr. Mueller’s full report and underlying findings will be sufficient so that Democrat-led House committees can conduct their own scrutiny of Mr. Trump.The top Democrats on nearly a dozen House and Senate committees sent letters on Friday to the F.B.I., the Justice Department, the White House and other federal agencies demanding that all documents, communication and evidence amassed by Mr. Mueller and his team be preserved because Congress might request access to it.“Congress requires the full report and the underlying documents so that the committees can proceed with their independent work, including oversight and legislating to address any issues the Mueller report may raise,” Ms. Pelosi wrote in a letter to fellow Democrats before the call.During the call, she added that she would reject any offer from the Justice Department to brief the bipartisan Gang of Eight House and Senate leaders or some other configuration of lawmakers in a classified setting on findings that are not made public, according to a person present. Ms. Pelosi said she would insist any briefing be unclassified to allow lawmakers to discuss the full investigative findings publicly.Republican leaders convened their own brief call on Friday night, after the Justice Department notified Congress that it had received the report from Mr. Mueller’s office, but it was primarily limited to logistics, according to one person with knowledge of the call. Welcoming the news that the special counsel would seek no further indictments, members of the president’s party were cautiously optimistic.The Republican National Committee circulated talking points to allies on Friday that emphasized Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the inquiry and appeared to set the stage for the president and his party to claim political victory. They asserted that “speculation” about interference with the investigation had been proved “dead wrong.”“It’s long past time Democrats drop their politically motivated calls for never-ending investigations,” said a copy of the talking points, obtained by The New York Times.Allies surrounding the president at Mar-a-Lago found themselves in a similar place. Mr. Trump’s lawyers and aides urged him to stay quiet, people briefed on the discussions said. Wait and see what was in the report, and trust that Mr. Barr is not trying to harm you, they cautioned. They assured him that there would be ample time to claim vindication after they knew what was in the report, the people said.Mr. Trump appeared to be in good spirits on Friday night when he dined on the Mar-a-Lago patio with his wife and some of his children.But he was circumspect about the end of an investigation that has been a backdrop of his presidency. He told people who greeted him that he was tired, but he still returned to the patio after giving brief remarks at a local Republican Party dinner in the club’s ballroom. He sat sipping coffee until fairly late in the evening.One friend of Mr. Trump said that despite his outward good spirits, the president remained anxious about the contents of the report and was concerned that its release was taking longer than he expected.In recent weeks, Mr. Trump has been canvassing friends and allies for their opinions of Mr. Barr, a long-serving Republican legal hand who was confirmed last month. Mr. Trump, people who have spoken with him said, does not know Mr. Barr well or what to expect from him.“Do you know Barr?” the president has asked others of his attorney general.Nicholas Fandos and Katie Benner reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman and Annie Karni from New York. Adam Goldman contributed reporting from Washington.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — President Trump accused Democrats on Thursday morning of “presidential harassment” over congressional investigations into his finances, and he mocked Virginia politicians whose jobs are in peril after revelations they appeared in blackface.Then, the president went to the annual National Prayer Breakfast, where he implored attendees to open up to faith in order to “fill our hearts with love.” Mr. Trump described America as “a nation that believes in redemption.”The split-screen version of Mr. Trump has become a familiar formula, after two years of slash-and-burn tweets in the morning — and sometimes throughout the day — followed by presidential events meant to convey a somber tone.Thursday offered an unusually stark comparison between Mr. Trump’s unvarnished thoughts and his formal schedule, as he seeks to revive his connection to evangelical and conservative voters whose support was crucial to his victory in 2016.“So now Congressman Adam Schiff announces, after having found zero Russian Collusion, that he is going to be looking at every aspect of my life, both financial and personal, even though there is no reason to be doing so. Never happened before! Unlimited Presidential Harassment...” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter at around 6:15 a.m.It was quickly followed by, “The Dems and their committees are going “nuts.” The Republicans never did this to President Obama, there would be no time left to run government. I hear other committee heads will do the same thing. Even stealing people who work at White House! A continuation of Witch Hunt!”And then, in a reference to scandals engulfing Democrats in Virginia about wearing blackface and accusations of a sexual assault, Mr. Trump wrote, “Democrats at the top are killing the Great State of Virginia. If the three failing pols were Republicans, far stronger action would be taken. Virginia will come back HOME Republican) in 2020!”Twenty-five minutes later, Mr. Trump left for the Washington Hilton, where he sat in front of a plate of fruit and bagels, chatting with others, before he was called up to speak at the prayer breakfast.“I will never let you down,” Mr. Trump told the audience, to applause.The president described the group as “united by a shared belief in the glory of God and the power of prayer.” He added, “When we open our hearts to faith, we fill our hearts with love.”He boasted that his “administration has taken historic action to protect religious liberty,” and talked about his State of the Union address, in which he proposed new restrictions on late-term abortions.“All children, born and unborn, are made in the holy image of God,” Mr. Trump said.He then discussed Pastor Andrew Brunson, who had been imprisoned in Turkey, and whose case was championed by conservatives. Mr. Brunson was at Mr. Trump’s address on Tuesday.That section brought another, small reminder that Mr. Trump’s teleprompter performances are different than the rawness his Twitter feed or interviews offer.Reading from the prepared remarks, Mr. Trump said that the pastor this weekend “will walk his daughter down the aisle.” Mr. Trump appeared surprised by what he had just read, and said, “Wow. That’s great. Congratulations. Was I invited?”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWhat a brave Jew at a Nazi rally in New York tells us about our times.By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistHis name is Isadore Greenbaum. He’s a Jew, a plumber’s helper from Brooklyn. He rushes onto the stage, beneath a portrait of George Washington flanked by swastikas. He tries to accost the Nazi who is denouncing the “Jewish-controlled press” and calling for a “white gentile-ruled” United States. Uniformed storm troopers beat him. Police officers drag him from the stage, pants ripped, arms raised in desperate entreaty. The mob howls in delight.It’s Feb. 20, 1939. More than 20,000 Nazi sympathizers are packed into Madison Square Garden as Greenbaum attempts to silence Fritz Kuhn, Bundesführer (so-called) of the German American Bund. Greenbaum has been enraged by Kuhn’s demand that the country be delivered from Jewish clutches and “returned to the American people who founded it.”The 26-year-old Jew is brought before a magistrate who, according to an account in this newspaper, tells him that “innocent people might have been killed.” To which Greenbaum retorts, “Do you realize that plenty of Jewish people might be killed with their persecution up there?”“Plenty” is an inadequate word for six million, but that was 1939 and human beings tend not to imagine the unimaginable. The pale, dismayed face of the young Jewish boy, arms raised, being rounded up in the Warsaw ghetto in 1943 is well known. Greenbaum’s expression of terrorized anguish in New York City presages it.All this is caught in Marshall Curry’s remarkable Oscar-nominated documentary short, “A Night at the Garden,” composed of footage from the time. Attacks on the press; the take-back-our-country cry; hymns to the true American (or German): There’s not much new, as Curry notes, about fascism.The movie brings to mind a phrase of Hannah Arendt’s that has haunted me about how most people will comply under conditions of terror but some will not: “No more is required,” she wrote, “and no more can reasonably be asked, for this planet to remain a place fit for human habitation.”Think the “Tank Man” of Tiananmen Square. Think Anton Schmid, the sergeant in Hitler’s army who helped Jews in the Vilnius ghetto and was executed in 1942. Think Ron Ridenhour, the helicopter gunner in Vietnam spurred by conscience to gather information that led to the official investigation into the My Lai massacre. Think Isadore Greenbaum. It is of the essence of such gestures that they appear futile, yet have the power to redeem humanity.Our age, too, is one of demagogues. What are we to make of our “ivory-gold colossus” — James Lasdun’s phrase in his brilliant new novel of the #MeToo era, “Afternoon of a Faun”? This colossus “at once menacing and cosmically aggrieved” who for two hours perorates before the Conservative Political Action Conference (only would-be or actual dictators afflicted with narcissistic disorders talk for that long) and declares: “I’m in love, and you’re in love. We’re all in love together.”Who, for President Trump, are his people in love? They are “our people.” Now, “our people” are not synonymous with the American people. This president, unlike his predecessors, has never seen himself as the president of all Americans.No, they are the CPAC crowd, his fans. They are the “tough people,” the people who could make things “very bad” if necessary — police and military and bikers who, the president claimed in an interview with Breitbart News this month, support him. He needs people in his thrall, like that Madison Square Garden crowd. As Lasdun wrote, “Nothing short of dominion over the entire universe could compensate for the wrongs done to him.”The wrongs, that is, of journalists, judges and Hollywood directors — anyone who thinks the president might just be a dangerous white nationalist charlatan. Why think that? Because Trump, from Day 1, has maligned brown people and Muslims; and, as president, he saw “very fine people on both sides” at the 2017 Charlottesville rally where white nationalists chanted “Jews will not replace us” and a woman who protested, Heather Heyer, was killed.I am not suggesting Trump resembles Hitler. That should be obvious — but not so obvious that I will refrain from writing this column. The white nationalist mass murderer of Muslims in New Zealand was not out of his mind in seeing Trump as a symbol of “renewed white identity and common purpose.” Trump’s love affair is with revanchist white people who don’t like the demographic look of the 21st century.Throughout the world today, from Saudi Arabia to the Philippines, from Guatemala to North Korea, bad things happen because the Trump administration winks at them. The United States as moral guardian, however flawed, has vanished.It’s not that Trump could be dangerous. He is dangerous. People die because the worst leaders know they enjoy the American president’s connivance. The debate on whether Trump is harmless, whether we should laugh away his grotesquerie, is misplaced. I have no doubt that the worst is yet to come. In his own mind, whatever the Mueller report contains, Trump cannot lose.Greenbaum and his wife moved to Southern California. A fisherman at Newport Pier, Greenbaum died in 1997. There was, as Philip Bump observed in The Washington Post, “a brief mention of his passing in the local news.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byA demagogic president can walk right up to the edge of committing a crime, so long as he operates brazenly in public view. By Bob BauerMr. Bauer is a professor of practice and distinguished scholar in residence at New York University School of Law.Attorney General Bill Barr’s summary of the report from Robert Mueller is only a first step in the accounting of this president’s behavior, but it is not too early to reach this conclusion: It marked a good day for some norms — but a much, much worse one for others.A special counsel’s investigation of a president is first and foremost a mechanism for addressing strictly legal questions. But it is necessarily always more, and the investigative process and the ultimate legal and factual findings reflect, help shape and often reinforce the state of key norms — fundamental expectations of presidential conduct. Legal process norms have mostly emerged in sound condition. The Mueller investigation was completed without, as Mr. Barr affirmed, any action rejected by the attorney general or Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general. Soon after Mr. Barr had received the Mueller report, he released a summary of the principal conclusions. So far, the attorney general is proceeding in compliance with the special counsel rules for congressional notification and a more general, “public interest” release. And he has pledged additional transparency.The attorney general’s involvement in the final decision on potential obstruction of justice is more questionable. After all, Mr. Barr’s views were well known to the White House on this topic: He did not bring an open mind to it.Still, the Senate confirmed him, and he was clear that he would not recuse himself on these grounds. And in reaching a prosecutorial judgment on obstruction, Mr. Barr consulted Mr. Rosenstein, who concurred in the decision to decline prosecution; he also claims to have engaged the Office of Legal Counsel.These process norms fared well. But the Mueller report marked a low point for more substantive norms of presidential conduct. It shows that a demagogic president like Donald Trump can devalue or even depart radically from key norms, just short of committing chargeable crimes, so long as he operates mostly and brazenly in full public view. For a demagogue, shamelessness is its own reward.Such a president can have openly, actively encouraged and welcomed foreign government support for his political campaigns, and his campaign can reinforce the point in direct communications with that government’s representatives. The Barr summary reveals that the special counsel uncovered not just a couple but “multiple offers” of support from the Russians, and yet neither Mr. Trump nor his campaign reported them to counterintelligence or law enforcement authorities. Mr. Trump went further still — while in office, he dictated a statement for his son and campaign aide, Donald Trump Jr., that falsely represented the purposes of the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting between senior campaign representatives and a Kremlin-connected representative (and others) offering assistance in the 2016 election.Mr. Mueller proceeded cautiously on this and other evidence. Federal campaign finance laws prohibit soliciting and receiving support from foreign nationals or “substantially assisting” them in their efforts to influence an American election, but Mr. Mueller concluded that the rules as applied to the facts did not support a criminal prosecution. This was a conservative judgment — but it underscores again the urgent work norms must do if the law is inadequate to the task. Similarly, the letter notes that much of the president’s obstructive behavior during the investigation was in “public view.” This was apparently a significant consideration in the decision by Mr. Barr and Mr. Rosenstein not to prosecute (along with the determination that there was no underlying “collusion” legal offense). Here, once again, the president who is a demagogue — who is fully prepared to flout well-established, vitally important expectations about how American presidents faithfully execute the laws — can safely bring self-interested, self-protective pressure on the Department of Justice and undermine its public standing and authority.In this case, the president’s all-out assault on the department, the special counsel and the Federal Bureau of Investigation did not prevent Mr. Mueller from completing his investigation and reporting his conclusions (or his reasons, in the case of obstruction, for not reaching a conclusion and leaving it to the attorney general to decide). Who is to say that the next demagogue to occupy the Oval Office won’t follow this same path but take it one or more steps further? Mr. Trump has shown the way.For the classic demagogue, so feared by the founders, the only question is what works to serve his own interests. He will do, and he will say, what it takes, weighing only the personal costs against the personal benefits. In the polarized politics of the day, Mr. Trump is bolstered in his demagogic conduct by a passionately loyal “base” impressed by his norm-busting. So, even before other facts emerge, the urgent question is how to revive and even strengthen the norms. We have reason to salute Mr. Mueller: As a prosecutor, he did his job conscientiously, and the process generally worked as designed. But we now have cause to worry about the future of the norms that Mr. Trump could trash on a calculation that he could get away with it.It was a good moment for the demagogue.Bob Bauer is a professor of practice and distinguished scholar in residence at New York University School of Law and served as a White House counsel under President Barack Obama.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders discuss a dramatic hearing in which Mr. Cohen expressed regret for his actions on behalf of the president and was harshly attacked by Republicans. To the Editor:Re “Cohen Says President Told Him to Lie About Hush Money Payments” (nytimes.com, Feb. 27):Whether we believe what Michael Cohen has to say during his testimony, we deserve the opportunity — the simple opportunity — to hear his testimony. Instead, the G.O.P. members of the House Oversight and Reform Committee are constantly ceding their time to Representative Jim Jordan, the bulldog who harasses and intimidates Mr. Cohen instead of spending this valuable time letting the American public hear questions and answers.In a court of law, witnesses cannot be harassed by either side. These lawmakers might do well to keep that in mind.Connie SchiedPortland, Ore.To the Editor:Republicans in Congress appear skeptical of Michael Cohen’s testimony because — oh my gosh — he’s lied in the past. Perhaps they can tell us just which current or former Trump administration or campaign officials, including the president, they would believe?Stephen PolitBelmont, Mass.To the Editor:How times have changed. Two years ago, Michael Cohen was reviled as a liar and a Donald Trump minion who was not to be believed. Now, Congress places Mr. Cohen, a convicted felon, on a pedestal as a credible witness. Andrew KoSan Marino, Calif.To the Editor:What have we learned from these hearings so far? That President Trump may have lost his “fixer,” Michael Cohen, but he has many more “fixers” among the G.O.P. members of Congress.Elaine L. ShuteSurry, Me.To the Editor:Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, called it “laughable” that anyone would believe Michael Cohen, because he is a “convicted liar.” But Mr. Cohen wasn’t convicted of just any lie; he falsely testified to Congress that President Trump stopped negotiating with the Russians in January 2016 about building a Trump Tower in Moscow. That is the same claim the president himself made throughout his campaign, and which he repeated up until the day Mr. Cohen confessed it wasn’t true.It was Mr. Cohen, not Mr. Trump, who first came clean about this lie. And it was Mr. Trump, not Mr. Cohen, who benefited from it.In short, if this lie means that Mr. Cohen is not to be believed, it affects the president’s credibility even more.Robert HelfandSimsbury, Conn.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bylettersContinuing reaction to President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency so he can build a border wall.To the Editor:Re “Trump Calls Emergency, Defying Congress” (front page, Feb. 16):Now is the time for all good men and women to come to the aid of their country. The president has crossed a red line, and the people know it.If you have Republican members of Congress, right now is the time to tell them, in no uncertain terms, that you will absolutely not vote for them in 2020 unless they reject President Trump’s unconstitutional abuse of authority in declaring an emergency when no such emergency exists.The only thing that will change the course of events in this country is when Republicans start to see their power erode and say “no more.” When we promise that their own jobs are on the line unless they stand up to President Trump’s blatant act of autocracy, the tide will turn and we will begin to reclaim our democracy.Republicans, and Americans who have Republican lawmakers, only you can prevent dictatorship. Call your members of Congress today.Peggy Lee ScottBerkeley, Calif.To the Editor:One of the critical pillars of the American system is that we do not use the military to manage the people. Declaring a false emergency to support government by tantrum is the camel’s nose: a powerful step toward the dictatorship that President Trump dreams of. This is the blatant bridge too far. If Congress fails to remove this clear and present danger, we must put down our pens and our devices and head, peacefully, into the streets.Ann Norvell GrayRichmond, Va.To the Editor:If President Trump were smart, he would focus on a wall that is actually needed: a firewall against foreign intrusion into our data infrastructure.But our cyberspace isn’t a tangible object, like Trump Tower, to which he can point and claim credit. And, after all, its breach is what largely got him elected.Martha D. TrowbridgeNew YorkTo the Editor:Re “A Detailed History of Trump’s Signature Promise, in His Own Words” (graphic, Feb. 17):Your list of President Trump’s promises that Mexico would pay for a border wall parallels earlier lists of President Trump’s many other such promises. These lists leave us with an overarching question: Did the president know that he was lying — that Mexico would never pay for a wall — in which case he has to be the greatest scoundrel in American political history?Or does he really think that he is uttering actual truths, in which case he is the most delusional person in American political history?Fellow citizens, choose your poison!Manfred WeidhornFair Lawn, N.J.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bylettersAfter a weekend of dozens of tweets, some see signs that President Trump is increasingly mentally unbalanced.To the Editor:Re “Seeking Clues Behind Trump’s Weekend Twitter Barrage” (news article, March 19):For over two years we have watched President Trump become more and more unhinged. This past weekend should have been a frightening experience for even the most casual observer of our political situation. His disjointed attacks on the Mueller investigation and irrational rants against the late Senator John McCain should make his enablers in Congress more than nervous.It is getting harder to ignore that we apparently have an emotionally unbalanced individual as our chief executive. For Congress to ignore these obvious signs is a dereliction of duty. Ted DicksonNew YorkTo the Editor:President Trump’s recent tweets do not mean that he is unraveling or a madman; he is just throwing a temper tantrum. All his adult life he has surrounded himself with sycophants who catered to his every whim. Fox News has been filling that role by stroking his ego.A plausible reason for the recent tweets is not necessarily the Mueller investigation or the rebuke from Congress on his emergency declaration, but more likely that Fox News suspended the “Justice With Judge Jeanine” show Saturday night (“After a Rare Public Rebuke, Fox News Suspends a Host, to the President’s Chagrin,” news article, March 18). His cuddly bear and enabler was taken away from him, and he lashed out like a spoiled little boy. But through denial and more projection and maybe a rally or numerous likes on his Twitter feed, he will be back to his old grandiose self in a few days. George Magakis Jr.Norristown, Pa.To the Editor:So much attention is being paid to President Trump’s tweets, the Mueller investigation, terrorism, immigration. But how about focusing on a truly inspiring story of the indomitable strength of the family, the foundation of society. If Kellyanne and George Conway can keep it together, despite Mr. Conway’s questioning the president’s mental fitness, there’s hope for all of us.Tom FritschlerPort Angeles, Wash.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sharon LaFraniere and Katie BennerWASHINGTON — The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, on Friday delivered a report on his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election to Attorney General William P. Barr, bringing to a close an investigation that has consumed the nation and cast a shadow over President Trump for nearly two years.Mr. Barr told congressional leaders in a letter that he may brief them on the special counsel’s “principal conclusions” as early as this weekend, a surprisingly fast turnaround for a report anticipated for months. The attorney general said he “remained committed to as much transparency as possible.”In an apparent endorsement of an investigation that Mr. Trump has relentlessly attacked as a “witch hunt,” Mr. Barr said Justice Department officials never had to intervene to keep Mr. Mueller from taking an inappropriate or unwarranted step. The department’s regulations would have required Mr. Barr to inform the leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary committees about any such interventions in his letter.A senior Justice Department official said that Mr. Mueller would not recommend new indictments, a statement aimed at ending speculation that Mr. Trump or other key figures might be charged down the line. With department officials emphasizing that Mr. Mueller’s inquiry was over and his office closing, the question for both Mr. Trump’s critics and defenders was whether the prosecutors condemned the president’s behavior in their report, exonerated him — or neither. The president’s lawyers were already girding for a possible fight over whether they could assert executive privilege to keep parts of the report secret.[Update: Read Attorney General William Barr’s summary of the Mueller Report.]Since Mr. Mueller’s appointment in May 2017, his team has focused on how Russian operatives sought to sway the outcome of the 2016 presidential race and whether anyone tied to the Trump campaign, wittingly or unwittingly, cooperated with them. While the inquiry, started months earlier by the F.B.I., unearthed a far-ranging Russian influence operation, no public evidence emerged that the president or his aides illegally assisted it.Nonetheless, the damage to Mr. Trump and those in his circle has been extensive. A half-dozen former Trump aides were indicted or convicted of crimes, mostly for lying to federal investigators or Congress. Others remain under investigation in cases that Mr. Mueller’s office handed off to federal prosecutors in New York and elsewhere. Dozens of Russian intelligence officers or citizens, along with three Russian companies, were charged in cases that are likely to languish in court because the defendants cannot be extradited to the United States.Republicans immediately seized upon the news that no more indictments are expected as a vindication of Mr. Trump and his campaign. Those reports “confirm what we’ve known all along: There was never any collusion with Russia,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the second-highest-ranking House Republican, said in a statement.Democrats, including some of those hoping to supplant Mr. Trump in the White House in the 2020 election, insisted that Mr. Mueller’s full report be made public, including the underlying evidence. In a joint statement, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the top Senate Democrat, warned Mr. Barr not to allow the White House a “sneak preview” of the document.“The White House must not be allowed to interfere in decisions about what parts of those findings or evidence are made public,” they said.Not since Watergate has a special prosecutor’s inquiry so mesmerized the American public. Polls have shown that most Americans want to know its findings, and the House unanimously passed a nonbinding resolution to publicize the report.Mr. Barr’s letter said he would decide what to release after consulting with Mr. Mueller and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who has overseen his investigation. Justice Department officials emphasized that the White House had been kept at a distance.Only a handful of law enforcement officials have seen the report, said Kerri Kupec, a department spokeswoman.More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation.Although a White House lawyer was notified that Mr. Mueller had delivered it to Mr. Barr, no White House official has seen the report or been briefed on it, according to Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. “The next steps are up to Attorney General Barr, and we look forward to the process taking its course,” she said.Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the president’s personal lawyers, said he planned to remain in Washington over the weekend in part because Mr. Barr might update Congress on Mr. Mueller’s findings.He sidestepped a question about whether the president’s lawyers were seeking to review the report before any of it becomes public. White House lawyers have been preparing for the possibility they may need to argue some material is protected by executive privilege, especially if the report discusses whether the president’s interactions with his top aides or legal advisers are evidence of obstruction of justice.Even though Mr. Mueller’s report is complete, some aspects of his inquiry remain active and may be overseen by the same prosecutors once they are reassigned to their old jobs in the Justice Department. For instance, recently filed court documents suggest that investigators are still examining why the former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort turned over campaign polling data in 2016 to a Russian associate who prosecutors said was tied to Russian intelligence.Mr. Mueller looked extensively at whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice to protect himself or his associates. But despite months of negotiations, prosecutors were unable to personally interview the president.Mr. Trump’s lawyers insisted that he respond only to written questions from the special counsel. Even though under current Justice Department policy, a sitting president cannot be indicted, Mr. Trump’s lawyers worried that his responses in an oral interview could bring political repercussions, including impeachment, or put him in legal jeopardy once he is out of office.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige CowettThe Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Here’s a look at what this means and what comes next.michael barbaroSo it’s here.michael schmidtWell, it’s in the hands of Bill Barr. It’s not here in the sense that we can publicly consume it and see what Bob Mueller found. It has just moved from one pocket, which we can’t see into, into another pocket that we can’t see into.michael barbaroBut it has moved pockets, at least, which is something. Something we’ve been waiting two years for.michael schmidtCorrect. Bob Mueller is done with his investigation.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is a special episode of “The Daily.” Today: The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. It’s Friday afternoon, March 22. So Mike, talk me through your day today.michael schmidtSo knowing it was going to be a big day, I turned on the recorder as soon as I left the house this morning and made my way into the office to hurry up and wait.[music]michael schmidtAll right. 10:05 a.m.michael schmidtI left my house at 10:00 a.m.michael schmidtWe expect the report to be finished today around noon.michael schmidtWalking down 17th Street, heading to the office.michael schmidtI got a call from the office from my editor wanting to know what I knew. Told her I knew nothing. Last thing an editor wants to hear — nothing new.michael schmidtNot a ton of people on the streets.speakerExcuse me.michael schmidtYes?speakerDo you know where the Jamaican Embassy is?michael schmidtI do not, I’m sorry. Do you know what the address is?michael schmidtWas stopped by a woman who couldn’t find the Jamaican embassy.michael schmidtO.K., so you’re going to want to go this way. Go to DuPont Circle, and make a right. Just keep on following that trail.speakerOh, O.K., so I’m going the wrong way.michael schmidtWell, we’re all going the wrong way.michael schmidtCome up to Massachusetts Avenue.michael schmidtCold March day. Fairly cold here in Washington. 45 degrees.michael schmidtJust had a normal sort of walk into the office.michael schmidt[HUMMING] Half a block away, coming up to 17th —michael barbaroIt doesn’t seem like you’re in a big hurry to get to the office.michael schmidtWell, all the work has been done. We know what’s coming.michael schmidtHow are you?speakerHey, Mike.michael schmidtWhat’s going on?michael schmidtSo come into the building.michael schmidtBig day? No? Not a big day? All right.michael schmidtGet on the elevator.elevator voice announcerFloor seven.michael schmidtWalk into the office. And everyone wants to know —speaker 1What do you got? What do you got?speaker 2Chasing the report.michael schmidtWhen’s it going to happen?speakerThis is the question I ask him every five —michael schmidtDays or —speakerDays or weeks.michael schmidtDays or weeks?michael schmidtThe whole apparatus of The New York Times is jacked up for this moment.michael schmidtWe got Nick here. We’re all ready.speakerGang’s all here.michael schmidtThere’s been a lot of time and planning that’s gone into this. There’s a lot of stories that have been written that are ready to go.speakerDoes that seem right?michael schmidtYep.speakerO.K.michael schmidtEveryone’s sitting around waiting, and they want answers.dean baquetSo what’s the latest?michael schmidtDean Baquet, our executive editor, calls down to Washington to ask Elisabeth Bumiller, our bureau chief, what do you know?elisabeth bumillerYou’re not so sure about it?michael schmidtI’m less sure about the timing, but —michael schmidtElizabeth calls me over to her desk, puts him on speakerphone. Mikey, what do you know?dean baquetDo you know much of a heads-up we may or may not get?michael schmidtMy guess is not a lot because I don’t know what there is to get a heads-up on.michael schmidtAnd I said, I don’t know.michael barbaro[LAUGHS] You tell them that you don’t know.michael schmidtWe don’t know!dean baquetO.K.elisabeth bumillerThat’s what we got.michael schmidtSo that’s all we got.elisabeth bumillerAnd we have stories ready. Once we get the word from Justice, we just push a button.michael schmidtAll the work is done.elisabeth bumillerWe’re just tourists hanging around.michael schmidtWe’re sort of lemmings at this point.michael schmidtSo it’s sort of just having the same unsatisfying conversation with different people throughout the office for several hours while eating doughnuts.michael barbaro[LAUGHS]michael schmidtAnd then it happens.archived recordingThe special counsel investigation is over. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. That report has been submitted. Now the question is, what happens to it? How much gets released and when? That is up to the new attorney general, Bill Barr.michael barbaroSo what do we know at this stage? It is Friday afternoon. What’s our understanding?michael schmidtOur understanding is that the attorney general and his deputies now have a long weekend of reading ahead of them. They have to go through the report, see what’s there, digest it, and then figure out what to do with it. How much of it should be made public, how much of it should be given to Congress, and how much of it should remain secret.michael barbaroIs that really all we know at this point? Is there anything about how this unfolded that tells us anything about the report or what Mueller has found, if he’s decided to bring any charges against any figure in the White House, or how he’s thinking about this?michael schmidtWe just know that Mueller is done. There are no more individuals that will be charged by the special counsel’s office in the investigation. If anyone else has gotten caught up in this, they will be indicted by other U.S. attorneys across the country who have absorbed investigations from the special counsel’s office.michael barbaroSo the version of the report that will go to Congress and be seen by the public is the version that the attorney general has had a chance to go through and decide which parts should be seen by the larger world and which should not. And that’s still going to take a while for him to figure out.michael schmidtCorrect. And it’s a very difficult process, because if there is criminality in regards to the president, it’s a very tricky issue to navigate. The Justice Department has a policy that says the president can’t be indicted. But if the president can’t be indicted, Congress should deal with that behavior. How do you give that information to Congress? It’s not a snap decision you can make — like, O.K., Mueller’s done, this is what he found. Let’s put this in another box and send it to Congress. It’s far trickier.michael barbaroSo how does the A.G. make the decision about what to include and what not to include in this report?michael schmidtBarr is in this incredibly difficult spot, because he has to figure out how much information to share with the public and Congress in a way that is enough to leave people convinced that this investigation was done thoroughly and based on following the facts. But he has to protect the president from disclosures about him that the public may be interested in, that his political enemies may want to know, but that has no bearing on the actual criminal investigation that was done.michael barbaroAnd does how the attorney general handles that balance depend, in your mind, Mike, on what the report from Mueller finds and says and recommends?michael schmidtYes. If Mueller says the president didn’t break the law, then Barr has to figure out how much information to give to Congress so that Congress takes those findings seriously. The problem is Barr is in a very difficult spot politically, because the Democrats have already concluded the president did something wrong. So if Barr learns from Mueller that there’s no criminality on the president, how does Barr then win over those Democrats and show them that Mueller truly made a decision based on the facts? How much of what the investigation found does he have to give to the Hill? In a normal criminal investigation, all of that information would not become public because the Justice Department would want to protect the individual who they have found did not commit a crime. But this situation is different, because a lot of people do think the president committed a crime. So how do you show the Democrats and the rest of the country that hey, look, this is what Mueller found. He only found X, Y, and Z. And if we wanted to make a case, he would have needed to have uncovered these other things, which he did not. And that’s why we’re confident with his findings.michael barbaroAnd on the other hand, if Mueller does find criminality and perhaps recommend charges against the president, how does Barr have to proceed?michael schmidtWell, how much of the evidence that Mueller uncovered should go to Congress? What should be told to Congress? Should Congress be told explicitly, look, Mueller believes the president violated these laws, and here’s the evidence to back it up? But what if some of that evidence has been obtained from a grand jury? The Justice Department can’t just hand over grand jury information to Congress. What if the information is classified? They’re not going to want to hand over classified information to Congress. They think Congress leaks like a sieve.michael barbaroIs it safe to say though, Mike, that if criminality is found by Mueller, Congress and the public will see more of the Muller report than if that is not found?michael schmidtMaybe. Maybe. But look, this is a highly unusual situation. The person who runs the executive branch, the president, has just been under investigation by folks inside of his own branch for the past 22 months. Very awkward situation.michael barbaroAnd the person making the decision about what we all will learn about that investigation is a direct appointee of that president.michael schmidtCorrect. Has the job because the president put him there. So the perception here is one where the average person looks at this and says, well, how can a guy who was made attorney general by the president look at this situation and make a decision that is free of politics? And how can I have confidence that this was done based on the facts?michael barbaroSo when will we know more? When will we know what the attorney general has decided on that front?michael schmidtOh, now you want to know more.michael barbaro[LAUGHS] Yes, please.michael schmidtThe greed of the news business.michael barbaroIf you’ll indulge us.michael schmidtWhen will we know more? Barr and his deputies will go through this, and I don’t know — sometime in the next few days, sometime in the next few weeks. It may be a difficult process to unbraid. Mueller has been rummaging around the president’s life for 22 months. We don’t have clarity into everything Mueller’s found. What if Barr looks at it and says, eh, Mueller thinks he violated this law and that law. But actually, I don’t think he has it. Maybe there’s not enough there. Maybe Barr disagrees with what Mueller has found, simply on a legal basis. The other thing is that Barr only really gets one shot to get it right. Whatever he goes out the door with in terms of handing over information to Congress, he’s got to have it right. He’s not going to have a second chance to say, well, you know, I gave you that stuff. But like, meh, maybe it’s not what I thought it was. Or, oh, let’s give you more. He has to get it right the first time. Otherwise, he’ll look like he’s waffling.michael barbaroAnd how much of how Barr handles this will be with a mind toward the expectation that a Democratically controlled House of Representatives is already into a series of investigations that they only want to redouble once this report is in their hands?michael schmidtBarr clearly knows Congress is going to jump up and down until it is satisfied with the information that it wants about this investigation. He can drag that out and probably lose it one way or another, either in the court of public opinion or in the actual courts. So he probably just wants to get it over with as soon as possible. He knows this has been an enormous weight on the country, and that the sooner it is resolved, the sooner the country can move on.michael barbaroAnd Mike, what is the likelihood that the way we find out more about the Mueller report is not from the version that’s sent to Congress, but from something else? I think we’re all really mindful of the fact that this is the era of the leak, and that this is the biggest potential leak in recent memory.michael schmidtYeah.michael barbaroWill it leak?michael schmidtI don’t know. I mean, the number of people who will have access to this document will be very small. And they will know that if there are a lot of leaks about this, then the president can start to raise questions about what’s really going on. It will look nefarious. The Democrats will get their backs up and say, well, if this stuff is leaking out, why can’t we have access to it? They will know that their lives will be much more difficult if there are leaks here. Obviously, you could come up with a scenario where someone working on the investigation is frustrated that the Justice Department has decided to go one way or the other on the report, and they think, ah, screw it, I’m going to make this public. But my guess is they have gone to great lengths to ensure that this is heavily protected.michael barbaroSo now we wait again.michael schmidtHurry up and wait.michael barbaroMike, thank you very much.michael schmidtThanks for having me.michael barbaroIn a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress sent on Friday afternoon, Attorney General William Barr said he would brief them on the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report as soon as this weekend. On Friday evening, The Times reported that Mueller is not recommending any new charges against President Trump or anyone else around him. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday.Mr. Trump has helped make Mr. Mueller a household name, attacking his investigation an average of about twice a day as an unfair, politically motivated attempt to invalidate his election. He never forgave former Attorney General Jeff Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia inquiry, an action that cleared the way for his deputy, Mr. Rosenstein, to appoint Mr. Mueller.Mr. Trump reiterated his attacks on the special counsel this week, saying Mr. Mueller decided “out of the blue” to write a report, ignoring that regulations require him to do so. But the president also said the report should be made public because of “tens of millions” of Americans would want to know what it contains.“Let people see it,” Mr. Trump said. “There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no nothing.”In court, the evidence amassed by the Mueller team has held up. Every defendant who is not still awaiting trial either pleaded guilty or was convicted by a jury. Although no American has been charged with illegally plotting with the Russians to tilt the election, Mr. Mueller uncovered a web of lies by former Trump aides.Five of them were found to have deceived federal investigators or Congress about their interactions with Russians during the campaign or the transition. They include Mr. Manafort; Michael T. Flynn, the president’s first national security adviser; and Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and longtime fixer. A sixth former adviser, Roger J. Stone Jr., is to stand trial in November on charges of lying to Congress.Those who know Mr. Mueller, a former F.B.I. director, had predicted a concise, legalistic report devoid of opinions — nothing like the 445-page treatise that Ken Starr, who investigated President Bill Clinton, produced in 1998. Operating under a now-defunct statute that governed independent counsels, Mr. Starr had far more leeway than Mr. Mueller to set his own investigative boundaries and to render judgments.Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]The regulations that governed Mr. Mueller, who is under the supervision of the Justice Department, only required him to explain his decisions to either seek or decline to seek criminal charges in a confidential report to the attorney general. The attorney general was then required to notify the leadership of the House and Senate judiciary committees.Despite pledging transparency, Mr. Barr may be reluctant to release the part of Mr. Mueller’s report that may be of most interest: whom the special counsel declined to prosecute and why, especially if Mr. Trump is on that list.The department’s longstanding practice, with rare exceptions, is not to identify people who were merely investigative targets to avoid unfairly tainting their reputations, especially because they would have no chance to defend themselves in a court of law. Mr. Rosenstein, who has overseen Mr. Mueller’s work and may have a say in what is released, is a firm believer in that principle.In a May 2017 letter that the president seized upon as justification for his decision to fire James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, Mr. Rosenstein severely criticized Mr. Comey for announcing during the previous year that Hillary Clinton, then a presidential candidate, would not be charged with a crime for mishandling classified information as secretary of state. Releasing “derogatory information about the subject of a declined criminal investigation,” Mr. Rosenstein wrote, is “a textbook example of what federal prosecutors and agents are taught not to do.”Weighing that principle against the public’s right to know is even more fraught in the president’s case. If Mr. Mueller declined to pursue criminal charges against Mr. Trump, he might have been guided not by lack of evidence, but by the Justice Department’s legal opinions that a sitting president cannot be indicted. The department’s Office of Legal Counsel has repeatedly advised that the stigma and burden of being under prosecution would damage the president’s ability to lead.Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the head of the House Judiciary Committee, has argued that the department’s view that presidents are protected from prosecution makes it all the more important for the public to see Mr. Mueller’s report.“To maintain that a sitting president cannot be indicted, and then to withhold evidence of wrongdoing from Congress because the president cannot be charged, is to convert D.O.J. policy into the means for a cover-up,” he said before the House approved its nonbinding resolution to disclose the special counsel’s findings.Some predict that any disclosures from Mr. Mueller’s report will satisfy neither Mr. Trump’s critics nor his defenders, especially given the public’s high expectations for answers. A Washington Post-Schar School poll in February illustrated the sharp divide in public opinion: It found that of those surveyed, most Republicans did not believe evidence of crimes that Mr. Mueller’s team had already proved in court, while most Democrats believed he had proved crimes that he had not even claimed.Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.OpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThere was no need to call for recognizing Israel’s annexation of the Syrian territory. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.President Trump’s proposed reversal of decades of American policy on the Israeli occupation of the Golan Heights has more to do with Israeli politics than American interests — or good sense. On Thursday, he announced on Twitter that the United States should recognize Israeli sovereignty in the disputed Golan Heights, on Israel’s border with Syria, even though no other country has done so. The United Nations has declared that official annexation of the territory would violate international law.Mr. Trump created a controversy where none needed to exist. Israel has been under no pressure to end the occupation of the Golan, which began during the 1967 Arab-Israeli War with the seizure of some 400 square miles by Israeli troops. But Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, is facing a tough re-election fight, and he has pleaded with Mr. Trump to make the move. The tweet bolsters his claim that he can best keep Israel safe because of his close ties to the White House. Support for Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights would also give Israel’s right-wing parties an opening to argue for Israel’s annexation of the West Bank. Such a move would crush any remaining hope of Palestinian statehood and put Israel’s future as a Jewish democracy at risk. Even the liberal group Americans for Peace Now, while opposing Mr. Trump’s policy shift, said that Israel has legitimate reasons to maintain its hold on the Golan Heights for now, because “Syria is in shambles, swarming with belligerent extremist groups, and Iran has gained a foothold there in the course of Syria’s horrific civil war.” For decades, the United Nations and the United States refused to officially recognize Israel’s seizure of the Golan Heights or the West Bank, on the ground that the boundaries of Israel and any new Palestinian state must be negotiated. In 1981, when Israel claimed to have annexed the Golan Heights, the Reagan administration retaliated by suspending a strategic cooperation agreement with Israel. The two countries reached another military cooperation agreement two years later.But since the Syrian war began in 2011, with Iranian and Russian military forces intervening in support of the Assad regime, pressure on Israel to withdraw from the Golan Heights has dissipated.As has become a pattern, there was no sign that the new policy went through any formal review before the president announced it. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, visiting Jerusalem in a show of support for Mr. Netanyahu before the April 9 election, appeared surprised by the timing of Mr. Trump’s tweet. Hours before, Mr. Pompeo had told journalists that America’s policy on the Golan Heights had not changed.Recognition of Israel’s claim to the Golan Heights was the latest in a series of decisions, like moving the American Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and abrogating the Iran nuclear deal, that demonstrated the administration’s unwavering support for Israel’s conservative government. Mr. Trump fancies himself a tough negotiator, but he has given away this valuable American diplomatic leverage, built up by previous presidents across decades, in exchange for nothing of benefit to the United States. Mr. Netanyahu, his Israeli supporters and pro-Netanyahu members of Congress applauded the decision. Mr. Netanyahu will be in Washington next week, where he will meet with Mr. Trump and attend the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobbying group.Unsurprisingly, the European Union, once America’s closest ally on Middle East issues, announced that it would not recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. Leaders in Syria and Iran condemned Mr. Trump’s decision, and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey warned that it brought the region to the brink of crisis. Syria vowed to take the territory back.Effectively endorsing the forcible expropriation of Syrian land will certainly make it harder for the United States to continue credibly opposing Russia’s 2014 annexation of Crimea. In general, though, the response was more muted than it might have been in the past, before Arab leaders decided they were more interested in having Israel as a partner against Iran.Mr. Trump, facing his own re-election in 2020, no doubt hopes his decision will build support among his base of pro-Israel evangelicals and American Jews. It’s more likely to exacerbate growing divisions among Americans over his administration’s unwavering support for Mr. Netanyahu and its damaging effect on American interests.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byAmy Klobuchar, Sherrod Brown and how to be a middle-class fighter.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistA few weeks ago, the pollsters at Monmouth University asked Democrats across the country to choose between two different kinds of nominees. One was a candidate whom the voter agreed with on most issues but who might struggle to beat President Trump. The other was the reverse — a strong candidate with different views from those of the person being polled.It was a rout. About 56 percent preferred the more electable candidate, compared with 33 percent who picked the more ideologically in-sync candidate. The gap was even larger among women and liberal Democrats. Patrick Murray, who runs the Monmouth poll, points out that this pattern isn’t normal. In previous campaigns, voters cared more about ideology than electability.I think there are two main reasons for the switch. The first, of course, is the awfulness of the Trump presidency. But the less obvious reason is important too: The differences among most of the leading Democratic presidential candidates just aren’t very big right now.[Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter — with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.]They all favor policies to lift incomes and reduce living costs for the middle class and poor. They all favor tax increases on the rich. They all favor climate action, voting rights and expanded Medicare. Most voters understand that choosing a candidate with modestly different ideas about how to achieve these goals isn’t much of a sacrifice.So if Democrats wanted to identify their best hope for beating Trump, what would that candidate look like?Above all, it would be a candidate good at persuading Americans that he or she was on their side — on their side against the forces causing the stagnation of American living standards. More specifically, this candidate would be someone who could persuade swing voters of this allegiance.Swing voters still exist. Enough Americans switched from backing Barack Obama in 2012 to Donald Trump in 2016 to House Democrats in 2018 to help decide those elections. I understand why some Democratic activists are instead drawn to the idea of victory through turnout: It offers the promise of avoiding any political compromise. The problem is, there are virtually no examples of Democrats winning close races without emphasizing persuasion. The 2018 attempts, in Florida, Georgia and Texas, all fell short.Yet progressives shouldn’t despair — because swing voters are quite progressive, especially on economic issues. For years, we’ve been hearing about a kind of fantasy swing voter, conjured by political pundits and corporate chieftains, who is socially liberal and economically conservative (as many pundits and chieftains are). The actual swing voter leans decidedly left on economics, in favor of tax increases on the rich, opposed to Medicare cuts and skeptical of big business.Still, these swing voters don’t think of themselves as radical. They are typically patriotic and religious. Many think of themselves as moderate and, strange as it may sound, many thought of Trump as moderate in 2016. When Republicans can paint a Democrat as an out-of-touch elitist — like they did Hillary Clinton, John Kerry, Al Gore or Michael Dukakis — the Republican candidate often wins these voters. When Democrats can instead come off as middle-class fighters, they tend to win.In the 2020 field, two Democrats have the strongest track record of running as middle-class fighters: Amy Klobuchar and Sherrod Brown.They are both Midwestern senators, Klobuchar (who launched her campaign Sunday) from Minnesota, Brown (who hasn’t yet decided whether to run) from Ohio. They both have a populist folksiness to them. And, no, those aren’t racial code words. Obama also won swing voters thanks in part to populist folksiness.About the power of large corporations, Klobuchar has said, “The public is at a breaking point.” She talks constantly about lowering health care costs. Brown talks constantly about restoring “the dignity of work.” Both have also smartly avoided some ideas that play better with liberal Twitter than swing voters, like the fever dream of eliminating private health insurance.And both of them win elections. Last year, while most Ohio Democrats were getting trounced, Brown won, by seven percentage points. Klobuchar won her own re-election in a landslide. She even won in two of the only three House districts nationwide — both outside of the Twin Cities — that flipped from Democrat to Republican last year. “She’s a progressive who’s found a way to connect with a wide range of people Democrats often struggle to reach,” Lawrence Jacobs of the University of Minnesota told me. “The Klobuchar message is: You can be both progressive and electable.”In her Senate races, Amy Klobuchar has won more votes than other Democrats on the ballot in Minnesota.2018Klobuchar60.3%Walz (Gov.)53.8T. Smith (Sen.)53.0Ellison (Att. Gen.)49.02012Klobuchar65.2%Obama (Pres.)52.72006Klobuchar58.1%Swanson (Att. Gen.)53.2Hatch (Gov.)45.7Note: Total general-election vote share in each race.By The New York TimesKlobuchar and Brown do have weaknesses. She is battling accusations of having been a harsh boss, which seem to be a mix of sexist stereotype and some truth. Brown, as a middle-aged white guy not known for rhetorical greatness, will have to show he isn’t too boring to stand out in a crowded field.But if I were Trump, I would fear Klobuchar and Brown. Either would be well positioned to take back blue-collar states Trump needs, like Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania and maybe even Ohio and Iowa. They could also play well in the Sunbelt suburbs of Arizona, Florida and North Carolina.And if I were the other 2020 Democrats, I’d be studying how Klobuchar and Brown have succeeded where so many other Democrats have been failing.Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byLeaders around the world have learned that they can do as they wish without the U.S. calling them out. By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistGoodness knows I’m loath to write anything these days that would feed Donald Trump’s ego. But this time it’s unavoidable. There is a new global political era emerging that, while not entirely attributable to Trump, his party and his administration, they’ve surely played a huge role in fostering. A variety of analysts have now given this era the same name: “Anything goes.” And for good reason.Look around the world and not only do you see a democratic recession — the number of democracies abandoning their democratic bona fides with sham elections is steadily mounting — but you see something much more grotesque: Leaders are grabbing power for life, murdering or jailing even the mildest of critics and shamelessly building coalitions with openly racist and bigoted parties.Most important, they’re doing it with utter impunity — confident that either no one is watching or no one will meaningfully call them out.This is what happens when people think America isn’t looking, doesn’t care or worse, has a president, himself having uttered over 9,000 lies and misleading statements, who has zero moral authority to call out others. When it comes to being a global watchdog that tries to enforce some basic norms of decency, America under Trump is out to lunch — and a lot of people have figured that out, and so anything goes.“It’s not just that liberal democracy is retreating under pressure from demagogic politicians exploiting the stresses of globalization, rising inequality, economic insecurity, job displacement, immigration, and so on,” argues Larry Diamond, author of a prescient new book, “Ill Winds: Saving Democracy From Russian Rage, Chinese Ambition, and American Complacency.” “It’s that authoritarian forces everywhere perceive that there is no longer any price to pay for ruling as nastily as they want.”So, today, “every type of regime is getting worse,” Diamond adds. “Liberal democracies are becoming more intolerant. Illiberal democracies are electing authoritarian personalities like President Duterte in the Philippines, who are purging judges and locking up journalists who dare to criticize them. Authoritarian regimes that once coexisted with pockets of opposition no longer see the need to bother. In Cambodia, the party of the long-ruling dictator, Hun Sen, now controls every seat in Parliament. And China is now constructing the first truly Orwellian surveillance state.”It all makes some of the lyrics of Cole Porter’s classic song seem so ahead of their time:The world has gone mad today/ And good’s bad today/ And black’s white today/ And day’s night today/ And that gent today/ You gave a cent today/ Once had several chateaux …/ Anything goes.Just think of those shocks you’ve got/ And those knocks you’ve got/ And those blues you’ve got/ From that news you’ve got/ And those pains you’ve got/ (If any brains you’ve got) …/ ’Cause Franklin knows/ Anything goes.When America, the world’s most influential democracy, has a leader without shame, who is backed by a party without spine willing to prostitute itself to Trump no matter how low he goes — and both are protected by a virtually state-run network without integrity, called Fox — it becomes a hunting license for leaders everywhere to go after their own domestic opponents and cross any human rights redline to stay in power.And we’re talking about some close allies. Last week, Israel’s attorney general recommended that Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu be indicted on charges of fraud, bribery and breach of trust in connection with three different corruption cases. This comes just after Netanyahu forged a political alliance with an openly racist, anti-Arab party.Netanyahu’s new political ally, the Otzma Yehudit (Jewish Power) party, traces its lineage to Rabbi Meir Kahane’s outlawed Kach Party, which advocated annexing the West Bank, expelling the Palestinians who lived there and resettling Israeli Arabs in Arab countries. Otzma’s leader, Michael Ben-Ari, with whom Bibi made his alliance, was denied a visa to the U.S. in 2012 on the grounds of being associated with a violent extremist group.Among Otzma’s leaders, the Jewish Telegraphic Agency reported, “is former Kahane aide Baruch Marzel, a resident of Hebron who holds a party every year at the grave of Baruch Goldstein, who in 1994 massacred 29 Palestinians at the Cave of the Patriarchs.”These are the people Netanyahu wants to bring into his government. Why not? Bibi knows that no matter how low he sinks, Trump will always have his back.Yes, politics can be a dirty business, “but there are sacred areas in which you don’t play politics, where there has to be a boundary,” says Hebrew University philosopher Moshe Halbertal. And making an alliance “with a racist party is one of them. Because when you do that you actually inflate them and send a message about what kind of speech is permissible.”You may think that “they are just a means to your ends,” adds Halbertal. “But in the end, they will control you, they will dominate your identity,” and, in Bibi’s case, “they will define who he is, who is Israel, who is Israel in the eyes of world Jewry and who is Israel in the eyes of the world.”Our enemies and rivals are also worse than ever. Iran has been deeply complicit in the ethnic cleansing of Sunnis in Iraq and Syria, in the use of poison gas by Syria’s regime and in the crushing of Lebanese democracy through its proxy the Hezbollah militia. But Iran gets away with it. The Iranians know that U.S. human rights activists are so focused on Saudi Arabia’s vile murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi and its bombings in Yemen that they’re ignoring Iran’s misbehavior. So anything goes.China’s government has felt free enough to admit that it’s been forcing religious minorities, particularly Chinese Muslims, into “re-education camps” to eliminate “extremism.” But news seeping out of these camps indicates they have “a lot more in common with concentration camps. Thousands of guards carrying spiked clubs, tear gas and stun guns surveil the government’s ‘students,’ who are held in buildings ringed with razor wire and infrared cameras,” said Vox, citing a recent report by Agence France-Presse.Allies of Egypt’s president, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, are well on their way to amending the Egyptian Constitution to make him, in effect, president for life, or at least until 2034, and give even more power to the military. El-Sisi, who made this power grab after a visit from and praise by U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, has also arrested far more Egyptians for the mildest of criticism, and snuffed out far more press freedoms, than his predecessor Hosni Mubarak — without a peep out of America.In Uganda, 74-year-old President Yoweri Museveni got age limits abolished so he can, in effect, also become president for life, after sending troops onto the floor of Parliament to beat up opposition lawmakers objecting to the move. Larry Diamond says, “A leading Ugandan human rights lawyer wrote to me that with Trump in the White House and Europe silent and democratic norms generally in retreat, African rulers like Museveni now feel emboldened to rule as long and as brutally as they want.”Again, whether it is the presidents of China, Egypt, Uganda, Russia and Turkey all basically making themselves into presidents for life, or Bibi forging an alliance with a racist politician banned from America so that he can cling to power in Israel, or the Saudi crown prince’s team murdering moderate journalist/critic Jamal Khashoggi, or allies Poland, Brazil and Hungary all drifting away from democracy under the sway of power-hungry nationalists, it’s obvious that none of them, none of them, ever bothered to ask themselves before their respective moves, “But what will the Americans say if we do this?”They knew the answer: Anything goes.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — When Gary D. Cohn was considering resigning as the top White House economic adviser after President Trump blamed “both sides” in a deadly white nationalist protest in Charlottesville, Va., his first stop was a meeting with Mr. Trump’s children.In a conversation in August 2017 with Ivanka Trump, the president’s eldest daughter and senior adviser, Mr. Cohn was shocked by her reaction to his concerns, according to a new book about Ms. Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner.“My dad’s not a racist; he didn’t mean any of it,” Ms. Trump said of the president’s refusal to condemn white nationalists outright. Appearing to channel her father, she added, “That’s not what he said.”Mr. Cohn ultimately did not resign over the Charlottesville episode, instead leaving after losing a battle over trade policy last year. In a statement late Monday, Mr. Cohn said: “Ivanka and Jared brought me into the administration. We worked well together and continue to be friends to this day.”But the episode permanently changed his view of Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner, who are often painted as moderating influences on the president, according to “Kushner Inc.,” by the journalist Vicky Ward.The book, which will be published by St. Martin’s Press on March 19, seeks to tell the behind-the-scenes story of Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner’s rise to extraordinary power in the White House. Ms. Ward has said she spent two years interviewing 220 people for the book, granting many of them anonymity.Her account is not a flattering one, and White House officials have dismissed the book and any coverage of it.She portrays Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner as two children forged by their domineering fathers — one overinvolved with his son, one disengaged from his daughter — who have climbed to positions of power by disregarding protocol and skirting the rules when they can. And Ms. Ward tries to unravel the narrative that the two serve as stabilizing voices inside an otherwise chaotic White House, depicting them instead as Mr. Trump’s chief enablers.The portrait that emerges, according to Mr. Kushner’s camp, is far removed from reality. “Every point that Ms. Ward mentioned in what she called her ‘fact checking’ stage was entirely false,” Peter Mirijanian, a spokesman for Mr. Kushner’s lawyer, Abbe Lowell, said in a statement. “It seems she has written a book of fiction rather than any serious attempt to get the facts. Correcting everything wrong would take too long and be pointless.”Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner wanted to control who could travel on trips funded by the State Department, Ms. Ward wrote, citing a source at the department. Ms. Trump also often requested to travel on Air Force planes when it was not appropriate. When Rex W. Tillerson, the former secretary of state, would deny the requests, the couple would invite along a cabinet secretary, often Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, to get access to a plane.Over the past two years, Mr. Trump has waffled on whether he wanted his children serving in his administration. When he hired John F. Kelly as his chief of staff, a move that Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner supported at the time, he gave an early directive: “Get rid of my kids; get them back to New York.”Mr. Trump complained, according to the book, that his children “didn’t know how to play the game” and generated cycles of bad press. Mr. Kelly responded that it would be difficult to fire them, but he and the president agreed that they would make life difficult enough to force the pair to offer their resignations, which the president would then accept.Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner, however, have outlasted those plans, and Mr. Trump’s desire for them to leave the West Wing has come and gone in waves, associates said. Mr. Kelly resigned in December, and the couple has only gained in power since his departure.If there is sympathy in Ms. Ward’s book for her protagonists, it is found in explaining how they grew up. Ms. Trump, she wrote, was wealthy but isolated. When she went to tour Choate Rosemary Hall, the elite Connecticut boarding school where she would attend high school, Ms. Trump arrived in a white stretch limousine. But she emerged from the car all by herself. “No one was there with her,” said her tour guide, who remained anonymous in the book.Mr. Kushner’s father, meanwhile, had been grooming his son since childhood to become his successor in the family real estate company, Kushner Companies. When Mr. Kushner went away to Harvard, Ms. Ward wrote, his parents had a business associate keep an eye on him — by taking him out for dinner and reporting back on his activities — to make sure he was not dating non-Jews or doing drugs.When Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump decided to get married, both sets of parents were skeptical. Ms. Trump eventually won over the Kushners with her commitment to a grueling religious conversion regimen and her apparent intense desire to become part of a close-knit family.Mr. Trump, meanwhile, did not understand why his daughter had to change her religion for anyone, even though he liked Mr. Kushner. He would joke that Ms. Trump could have married Tom Brady, the quarterback for the New England Patriots, and once joked to Robert K. Kraft, the team’s owner, that “Jared is half the size of Tom Brady’s forearm.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe president decides that fulfilling a campaign promise is more important than respecting the separation of powers. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.This editorial was updated.With his declaration of a national emergency at the southern border, President Trump takes executive overreach to dizzying new heights. The damage to American democracy threatens to linger long after his administration is no more than a dank memory.Cornered into accepting a budget deal that lacked the $5.7 billion in border-wall funding he demanded, the president could not handle being labeled a loser by conservative commentators like Laura Ingraham and Sean Hannity. His solution: Sign the bill while simultaneously declaring a national emergency that, at least in his mind, would allow him to shift funds and order the military to start building his wall.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, announced the move on Thursday afternoon. “President Trump will sign the government funding bill, and as he has stated before, he will also take other executive action — including a national emergency — to ensure we stop the national security and humanitarian crisis at the border,” she said. To repeat: The influx of migrant families at the southern border does not constitute a national security crisis, much less a bona fide emergency. There is, at this point, a worsening humanitarian crisis, actively fueled by the draconian policies of the administration. But the suffering on display requires thoughtful policy adjustments, not a steel monstrosity.Not that this is the end of this battle. Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration is destined to wind up in the courts, where it could get bogged down indefinitely. This fit of presidential pique is about more than a wall. It constitutes a reordering of the power dynamic between the branches of government. Mr. Trump aims to usurp one of Congress’s most basic responsibilities, the power of the purse.Confronted with this power grab, every lawmaker should be bellowing in alarm. Until recently, the threat of an “imperial presidency” was of grave constitutional concern to Republicans, who spent much of President Barack Obama’s tenure accusing him of misusing executive authority on, among other matters, immigration, health care and the environment.To their credit, a few Republican lawmakers have been warning against an emergency declaration for weeks. “I believe the president does have the legal authority — if you read the statute. I also think it would be a poor use of that authority,” Representative David Schweikert, a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, told Politico in January.Senator Marco Rubio was more emphatic. “If today the national emergency is border security, tomorrow the national emergency might be climate change.”The reaction of the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, to Mr. Trump’s intentions will do nothing to calm Republican jitters. “Just think of what a president with different values can present to the American people,” she observed. The poison cherry atop this sundae is that Mr. Trump is subverting American democracy for a cause opposed by a majority of the public. Polls show that most Americans do not want a wall at the southern border. And most definitely do not approve of Mr. Trump’s faking a national emergency to make an end run around Congress. Two recent polls showed that two-thirds of Americans opposed it.Not that any of this seems of interest to the president. “I have the absolute right to do national emergency if I want,” he insisted to reporters last month, sounding more like a huffy kindergartner than a world leader.This administration is forever coming up with creative new ways to disturb and dismay the nation. Mr. Trump’s eagerness to undermine the Constitution to serve his short-term political gain remains among the most outrageous.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON — Two years ago, some of America’s largest corporations were tearing up their business plans to accommodate President Trump, fearful that he could send their shareholders and customers fleeing with a tweet. Now they have a new strategy: Ignore him.This week, General Motors became the latest recipient of a barrage of tweets from Mr. Trump, who is angry about the company’s closing of a plant in Lordstown, Ohio. The president told the company to reopen the plant or sell it “fast” to someone who would. He suggested that G.M. shutter a factory in China or Mexico instead.“What’s going on with General Motors?” Mr. Trump said on Wednesday during a speech at a tank factory in Lima, Ohio. “Get that plant opened or sell it to somebody and they’ll open it.”G.M. has not budged. After Mr. Trump’s tweets over the weekend, the company issued a terse statement noting that it was relocating workers and that it would be discussing plant closings with the United Auto Workers union. It made no mention of the demands of Mr. Trump. In the past, G.M. has blamed the president’s trade war, including tariffs on steel and aluminum, for raising the company’s costs.“Companies are balancing political pressure against their own return requirements,” said Philippe Houchois, an automobile sector analyst at Jefferies. “I don’t think they are being swayed.”When Mr. Trump was running for president, he promised to personally stop American companies from shutting down factories and moving plants abroad, warning that he would punish them with public backlash and higher taxes. Many companies scrambled to respond to his Twitter attacks, announcing jobs and investments in the United States — several of which never materialized.But despite Mr. Trump’s efforts to compel companies to build and hire, they appear to be increasingly prioritizing their balance sheets over political backlash.“I don’t think there’s as much fear,” said Gene Grabowski, who specializes in crisis communications for the public relations firm Kglobal. “At first it was a shock to the system, but now we’ve all adjusted. We take it in stride, and I think that’s what the business community is doing.”Early on, Mr. Trump’s ability to direct outrage at companies appeared to work. Before Mr. Trump even took office, Carrier agreed to keep 1,000 jobs in Indiana that it had been planning to move to Mexico. In 2017, Ford canceled plans to build a new factory in Mexico and increased its investment in a self-driving car plant in Michigan. Last year, Pfizer delayed drug price increases at Mr. Trump’s request after he threatened, vaguely, to take action against the industry’s pricing policies.More recently that influence has waned. The president’s scattershot attention span has diminished his power to persuade the business world to bend to his will, corporate communications experts say, as once fearsome tweet storms have devolved into ephemeral annoyances.At the start of the Trump administration, big companies hired firms like Mr. Grabowski’s to develop response strategies in the event they were targeted by Mr. Trump. His team would scour social media to understand the trajectory of Mr. Trump’s tweets and how much damage they could do to a brand. Ultimately the public relations problems usually proved to be short lived.“In the beginning, his tweets would actually hurt stock prices and companies were going into tailspins,” said Eric Dezenhall, a Washington-based expert in corporate damage control. “There is a clinical difference between what was happening in the beginning and what is happening now.”He added: “What’s happening now is there is tantrum congestion.”That congestion has been on display this week, as Mr. Trump assailed Facebook, Google, Twitter and “Saturday Night Live,” saying they are biased against Republicans. Those outbursts on Twitter were interspersed with attacks on political opponents, the Russia investigation and Senator John McCain, who died last year.While a tweet from Mr. Trump used to sink a company’s stock price, analysts say that these days a missive from the president’s Twitter feed merely injects a bit of noise into the market. Musings from Mr. Trump about the prospect of a trade deal with China or the Federal Reserve continue to rattle investors.Responding with restraint has been something of a reorientation for the public relations industry. The traditional playbook often entails responding directly, quickly and forcefully to bad publicity. However, when it comes to Mr. Trump, experts say an understated response that does not further agitate the president tends to be more effective.Mr. Trump’s power over companies started to show signs of slipping last year. After Harley-Davidson announced plans to move some of its production overseas in response to Mr. Trump’s trade war, the president repeatedly blasted the company as disloyal and urged his supporters — many of whom ride motorcycles — to consider a boycott. Harley-Davidson executives acknowledged the president’s disappointment, but pressed ahead with their plans.Another frequent target, Amazon and its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has largely met his criticism with silence. In 2018, the president accused Amazon of pulling a “scam” on the United States Postal Service and convened a task force to come up with ways to overhaul the Postal Service business model that would allow it to charge higher rates.The task force’s report, which was released nearly eight months after the complaints, found that commercial package delivery for Amazon and other e-commerce retailers was actually profitable for the Postal Service and was not costing the United States “massive amounts of money,” as Mr. Trump had suggested in his tweets. Since then, the president has focused his attention on Mr. Bezos’ marital problems.In other cases, delay has been the path of least resistance.Pfizer agreed last summer to put off planned price increases after its chief executive, Ian Read, had an “extensive” call with Mr. Trump, who had said on Twitter that drug companies are taking advantage of the poor. In January, however, Pfizer moved forward with price increases on 41 drugs. Mr. Trump lamented on Twitter that month that drug companies were not living up to their commitments on pricing, but has not taken any action against the industry.Mr. Trump’s deal with Carrier has also been a bit less than advertised. While United Technologies, its parent company, agreed to maintain its Indianapolis factory in 2016, it still cut more than 500 manufacturing jobs in 2017 and 2018. Many of those were shifted to Mexico. So far, Mr. Trump has been mum.And Ford won plaudits from Mr. Trump for investing in Michigan, but after the spotlight moved on, it had second thoughts about abandoning its Mexico investment. Instead of canceling plans to set up shop south of the border, the company said that it would assemble electric cars there, in addition to its Michigan investment.For some companies, living up to the promises made to Mr. Trump has gotten complicated. Foxconn, the Taiwanese consumer electronics giant, won praise from the president when it announced that it would build a $10 billion television screen production plant in Wisconsin.In January, Foxconn appeared to hedge on that commitment, suggesting that it was too expensive to build the screens in the United States and that the plant would be less focused on manufacturing than it had initially suggested. After Mr. Trump had a conversation with the chairman of Foxconn last month, the company said that it was moving forward with its plans for the factory, but that only a quarter of the 13,000 people it planned to staff it would be focused on manufacturing.Despite Mr. Trump’s vast media presence and his popularity among Republicans, he has not demonstrated the ability to do lasting damage to a corporate brand that crosses him.Mr. Houchois, the Jefferies analyst, said he was not surprised that G.M. was sticking to its plan despite Mr. Trump’s displeasure. Broader economic forces, such as lower gas prices and falling demand for small cars, compelled the company to abandon the Lordstown plant. And Mr. Trump’s metals tariffs, combined with the possibility of more levies on automobiles, have been a drag on the industry and made car companies less inclined to do the president any favors.“The administration, to some extent, has made their life more difficult,” Mr. Houchois said. “They felt wronged by some decisions, on tariffs for example, so they are less likely to bow to pressure if they don’t think there is a business case.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn Thrush and Nicholas FandosRepresentative Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said Sunday that he planned to request documents from more than 60 people with ties to President Trump, his administration and his businesses, including the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., as part of the committee’s investigation of the president.Using the language of a prosecutor, Mr. Nadler said his goal was to present “the case to the American people about obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power,” which could lay the groundwork for eventual impeachment proceedings or other congressional action. He added that it was “very clear that the president obstructed justice.”Mr. Nadler, Democrat of New York, told ABC’s “This Week” that he would also request documents from  Allen Weisselberg, the chief financial officer for the Trump Organization. Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, repeatedly referred to Mr. Weisselberg’s central role in Mr. Trump’s business transactions during his testimony before the House Committee on Oversight and Reform last week.Mr. Nadler said Mr. Cohen “directly implicated the president in various crimes, both while seeking the office of president and while in the White House,” singling out as a particular concern Mr. Cohen’s claim that he was reimbursed for hush money payments to keep quiet Mr. Trump’s affairs.Mr. Nadler said it would be an “impeachable offense” if Mr. Trump were found to have participated in any scheme to “sabotage a fair election.” He cautioned, though, that “impeachment is a long way down the road.”“We don’t have the facts yet,” he said.The Judiciary Committee plans to lay out a more detailed account of its investigation when it makes the requests on Monday. But Mr. Nadler’s remarks on Sunday underscored the ever-widening nature of House Democrats’ inquiries into Mr. Trump’s businesses, campaign and administration.Without naming Mr. Nadler, Mr. Trump tweeted Sunday morning that he was being “persecuted by some very bad, conflicted & corrupt people in a Witch Hunt that is illegal & should never have been allowed to start — And only because I won the Election!”Mr. Nadler and other top leaders in the Democrat-controlled House are proceeding with caution, and believe that any attempt to bring impeachment charges against the president — or even discuss them as a significant possibility — could prompt a political backlash or lend credence to the president’s charge that the investigation is a witch hunt.“There may be a lot to find,” Mr. Nadler said in an interview with The New York Times on Thursday, discussing the need for investigations rather than impeachment for now. “We’ve got to know what we’re dealing with, and it’s not just about paying off hush money to women about affairs.”“It’s about abuse of power. It’s about obstruction of justice. These are more important, more fundamental things,” he said.When asked how far he was willing to go, Mr. Nadler said: “I’ve been in politics a long time, and I am here to defend civil rights, civil liberties, due process and the rule of law. And if I think that impeachment will help that, I will support impeachment. And if I think impeachment is the wrong way to go to that, I will oppose it.”Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the minority leader, said on “This Week” immediately after Mr. Nadler’s appearance that the chairman’s caution on impeachment was masking his true intentions.“I think Congressman Nadler decided to impeach the president the day the president won the election,” Mr. McCarthy said. “He talks about impeachment before he even became chairman and then he says, ‘You’ve got to persuade people to get there.’ There’s nothing that the president did wrong.”Mr. Trump has repeatedly denied wrongdoing, and he lit into those investigating him — including the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III — in a fiery and rambling  speech of more than two hours at the Conservative Political Action Conference on Saturday.“So now we’re waiting for a report, and we’ll find out,” Mr. Trump said of the conclusion of Mr. Mueller’s investigation, which is expected soon. “You put the wrong people in a couple of positions, and they leave people for a long time that shouldn’t be there, and all of a sudden, they’re trying to take you out.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe invasion of hucksters has reached the Federal Reserve.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistIt’s no secret that Donald Trump has appointed a lot of partisan, unqualified hacks to key policy positions. A few months ago my colleague Gail Collins asked readers to help her select Trump’s worst cabinet member. It was a hard choice, because there were so many qualified applicants.The winner, by the way, was Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary. That looks like an even better call now: Ross’s department has reportedly prepared a report declaring that imports of European cars threaten U.S. national security. This is both ludicrous and dangerous. It gives Trump the right to start a new phase in his trade war that would inflict severe economic damage while alienating our allies — and, as a result, undermine national security.Until recently, however, one agency had seemed immune to the continuing hack invasion: the Federal Reserve, the single institution most crucial to economic policymaking. Trump’s Fed nominees, have, by and large, been sensible, respected economists. But that all changed last week, when Trump said he planned to nominate Stephen Moore for the Fed’s Board of Governors.Moore is manifestly, flamboyantly unqualified for the position. But there’s a story here that goes deeper than Moore, or even Trump; it’s about the whole G.O.P.’s preference for hucksters over experts, even partisan experts.About Moore: It goes almost without saying that he has been wrong about everything. I don’t mean the occasional bad call, which all of us make. I mean a track record that includes predicting that George W. Bush’s policies would produce a magnificent boom, Barack Obama’s policies would lead to runaway inflation, tax cuts in Kansas would produce a “near immediate” boost to the state’s economy, and much more. And, of course, never an acknowledgment of error or reflection on why he got it wrong.[For an even deeper look at what’s on Paul Krugman’s mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]Beyond that, Moore has a problem with facts. After printing a Moore op-ed in which all the key numbers were wrong, one editor vowed never to publish the man’s work again. And a blizzard of factual errors is standard practice in his writing and speaking. It’s actually hard to find cases where Moore got a fact right.Yet Moore isn’t some random guy who caught Trump’s eye. He has long been a prominent figure in the conservative movement: a writer for the Wall Street Journal editorial page, chief economist of the Heritage Foundation, a fixture on the right-wing lecture circuit. Why?You might say that the G.O.P. values partisan loyalty above professional competence. But that’s only a partial explanation, because there are plenty of conservative economists with solid professional credentials — and some of them are pretty naked in their partisanship, too. Thus, a who’s who of well-known conservative economists rushed to endorse the Trump administration’s outlandish claims about the benefits from its tax cut, claims they knew full well were unreasonable.Nor has their partisanship been restrained and polite. Many of us are still mourning the death of Alan Krueger, the Princeton economist best known for research — since vindicated by many other studies — showing that increases in the minimum wage don’t usually seem to reduce employment. Well, the Nobel-winning conservative economist James Buchanan denounced those pursuing that line of research as “a bevy of camp-following whores.”So conservatives could, if they wanted, turn for advice to highly partisan economists with at least some idea of what they’re doing. Yet these economists, despite what often seem like pathetic attempts to curry favor with politicians, are routinely passed over for key positions, which go to almost surreally unqualified figures like Moore or Larry Kudlow, the Trump administration’s chief economist.Many people have described the Trump administration as a kakistocracy — rule by the worst — which it is. But it’s also a hackistocracy — rule by the ignorant and incompetent. And in this Trump is just following standard G.O.P. practice.Why do hacks rule on the right? It may simply be that a party of apparatchiks feels uncomfortable with people who have any real expertise or independent reputation, no matter how loyal they may seem. After all, you never know when they might take a stand on principle.In any case, there will eventually be a price to pay. True, there is, wrote Adam Smith, “a great deal of ruin in a nation.” America isn’t just an immensely powerful, wealthy, technologically advanced, peaceful country. We’re also a nation with a long tradition of dedicated public service.Even now — as I can attest from personal interactions — a great majority of those working for the Treasury Department, the State Department and so on are competent, hard-working people trying to do the best they can for their country.But as top jobs systematically go to hacks, there is an inevitable process of corrosion. We’re already seeing a degradation of the way our government responds to things like natural disasters. Well, there will be more and bigger disasters ahead. And the people in charge of dealing with those disasters will be the worst of the worst.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byletterA reader says the president got his wish for an article in The Times that cast him in a positive light. To the Editor:Re “Trump Says He’d Be Wary of Letting His Son Play” (SportsMonday, Feb. 4):President Trump complained to The New York Times’s publisher at their meeting last Thursday that just once he would like to see a positive piece about him. And a couple of days later one actually appeared.The president talked about his fears about his son Barron playing tackle football. He sounded like any other concerned parent. No bluster, no posturing, just serious concern. To the extent that it matters, it was nice to see.Robert RothNew YorkAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported bylettersOne reader terms the vote to overturn the emergency declaration just “a symbolic slap on the wrist,” while another calls those who sided with the president “spineless.” To the Editor:Re “12 G.O.P. Senators Defect to Block Emergency Move” (front page, March 15):Perhaps, given the times, it is remarkable that 12 Republican senators defied President Trump’s trampling on the separation of powers by voting to block his national emergency declaration over border wall funding. But more remarkable is that 41 Republicans did not join them.It is spineless to fail to challenge this president on a blatant, authoritarian-type power grab that defies the Constitution that the senators have sworn to uphold. It is craven to cast a vote out of fear that Mr. Trump will seek revenge by suggesting that someone else ought to hold your Senate seat if you do not bend to his will. And yet, this is what they did.So while we give a shout-out to those 12 Republican senators who made the principled call, let us ponder what it says about the ones who did not.Felicia MassarskyAtlantic CityTo the Editor:Re “Cracks in the Senate’s Red Wall” (editorial, March 15):Let us not overreact to this action by a handful of Republican senators. It is not nearly time to suggest Mr. Trump’s unfettered desecration of our democracy is nearing a conclusion. What Mr. Trump did was blatantly defy the will of Congress in his declaration of a national emergency. It was not the policy but merely the procedure, the stripping of the power of Congress to control the purse strings, that was the precipitating cause for this mini-revolt.But fundamentally this was little but a symbolic slap on the wrist, quickly undone by presidential veto. And life will quickly return to the normal that we have unfortunately come to know.There will be no talk, at least no serious talk, of Republicans joining in a call for impeachment. There has been no growing of a backbone, no declaration that this is an irreparable bridge too far. It is a welcome moment when there is even a hint of something other than pure capitulation to Mr. Trump’s whims and tantrums. But unless and until he puts a crown on and announces he is now king, there will be no Republican mutiny. Just the occasional reminder that some in his party will not permit the president to cast all their votes for them.Robert S. NussbaumFort Lee, N.J. Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter Baker and Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — President Trump’s longtime lawyer and fixer accused him on Wednesday of an expansive pattern of lies and criminality, offering a damning portrayal of life inside the president’s orbit where he said advisers sacrificed integrity for proximity to power.Michael D. Cohen, who represented Mr. Trump for a decade, laid out for Congress for the first time a series of deceptions by the president. He charged that Mr. Trump lied to the public about business interests in Russia, lied to reporters about stolen Democratic emails and told Mr. Cohen to lie about hush payments to cover up sexual misconduct.The accusations, aired at a daylong hearing before the House Oversight and Reform Committee, exposed a dark underside of Mr. Trump’s business and political worlds in the voice of one of the ultimate insiders. Perhaps no close associate has turned on a president in front of Congress in such dramatic fashion and with such high stakes since John Dean testified against President Richard M. Nixon during the Watergate scandal.“He is a racist. He is a con man. And he is a cheat,” Mr. Cohen said of the president. Mr. Cohen, who has pleaded guilty to lying under oath to Congress, among other crimes, said he did so to protect Mr. Trump. “I am not protecting Mr. Trump anymore,” he said.While the details have been different, his portrait of the president broadly resembles those provided by others who have split with Mr. Trump, including former aides, business associates and even his onetime ghostwriter, who likewise have described a president who bullies, dissembles and cheats to serve his own interests.[Donald Trump “inflated” the value of his assets in documents given to Deutsche Bank, Michael Cohen testified.]But it remained unclear whether Mr. Cohen’s testimony would change the political dynamics of a series of scandals that have already polarized Washington and the country and that could lead to an impeachment battle this year. Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland and the committee chairman, said afterward that Mr. Trump may have committed a crime while in office, but Republicans were unmoved.Assailing Mr. Cohen as a proven liar, they denounced the hearing as a “charade” and an “embarrassment for our country” orchestrated by partisan Democrats seeking a pretext to try to remove Mr. Trump from office. Democrats said Republicans “ran away from the truth” as they sought to defend a corrupt president who has employed “textbook mob tactics.”Michael D. Cohen, the former lawyer and fixer for President Donald J. Trump, took the stand on Wednesday morning to testify publicly against Mr. Trump before the House Oversight Committee.The hearing took place while the president was halfway around the world in Vietnam for a meeting with North Korea’s leader. His family and advisers expressed anger at the timing, arguing that Democrats were undercutting Mr. Trump during sensitive nuclear diplomacy for political gain.As with so many other moments of the Trump era, the hearing seemed to be as much about partisan theater as fact-finding. Democrats and Republicans set forth their conflicting narratives about the man who once served Mr. Trump, either as a duplicitous disgruntled former employee or a fallen sinner trying to redeem himself by coming clean.Through it all sat Mr. Cohen, 52, with dark circles under his puffy eyes, already tired from eight hours of testimony behind closed doors the day before and awaiting a three-year prison term that begins this spring. Apologizing repeatedly to his family, Mr. Cohen portrayed himself as a broken man brought down by hubris, at one point choking up and wiping tears from his eyes at the mention of the effect on his daughter.Through some five hours of nationally televised testimony, Mr. Cohen described his years working for Mr. Trump as a trip into a world of deceit in which the now-disbarred lawyer ignored his own conscience to get close to a magnetic person of power.“Sitting here today, it seems unbelievable that I was so mesmerized by Donald Trump that I was willing to do things for him that I knew were absolutely wrong,” Mr. Cohen said. When he met Mr. Trump, he knew him as “a real estate giant and an icon” at the center of the action. “Being around Mr. Trump was intoxicating,” he said.In private business, Mr. Cohen said he rationalized Mr. Trump’s dishonesty as “trivial,” but as president, he said, “I consider it significant and dangerous.”The president’s re-election campaign organization dismissed Mr. Cohen on Wednesday as a convicted perjurer who should not be trusted. “This is the same Michael Cohen who has admitted that he lied to Congress previously,” Kayleigh McEnany, the campaign’s national press secretary, said in a statement. “Why did they even bother to swear him in this time?”Republicans on the committee aggressively challenged Mr. Cohen along the same lines. Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, the ranking Republican, called Mr. Cohen a “fraudster, cheat, convicted felon and, in two months, a federal inmate.”Mr. Jordan questioned Mr. Cohen’s motives in assailing Mr. Trump’s character and actions, suggesting that the former lawyer was embittered because the new president did not bring him to Washington.“You wanted to work in the White House — ” Mr. Jordan said.“No, sir,” Mr. Cohen replied.“ — and you didn’t get brought to the dance.”“I did not want to go to the White House,” Mr. Cohen asserted.Eric Trump, one of the president’s sons, took issue with that on Twitter. “Michael was lobbying EVERYONE to be ‘Chief of Staff,’” he wrote. “It was the biggest joke in the campaign and around the office. Did he just perjure himself again?”The hearing drew enormous interest on Capitol Hill, where Democrats last month took control of the House and are under pressure from their liberal base to take on Mr. Trump. The crowds were huge and the sense of drama palpable. Lawmakers of both parties listened raptly to Mr. Cohen’s 30-minute opening statement.Mr. Cohen laid out a series of actions by Mr. Trump that bolster previous accusations and news stories, presenting documents to corroborate his account, including copies of checks issued by the president or his trust that he said were reimbursements for $130,000 in hush payments Mr. Cohen made to Stormy Daniels, a pornographic film actress who alleged an affair with Mr. Trump.Mr. Cohen said that Mr. Trump, as a candidate, initiated the hush payment plan and, while president, arranged for 11 checks reimbursing the lawyer “as part of a criminal scheme to violate campaign finance laws,” a crime to which Mr. Cohen has pleaded guilty.After news reports about the payments in February 2018, Mr. Cohen told lawmakers, the president called and told him to say that Mr. Trump “was not knowledgeable of these reimbursements and he wasn’t knowledgeable of” Mr. Cohen’s actions. Mr. Trump himself later told reporters he did not know about it.Mr. Trump’s signature on a $35,000 check to Mr. Cohen, however, appeared to contradict that. Asked later by reporters if that meant Mr. Trump committed a crime while in office, Mr. Cummings said, “Based on looking at the checks and listening to Mr. Cohen, it appears that he did.”Mr. Trump likewise did not report the debt to Mr. Cohen on his annual financial disclosure statement in 2017, but did report paying it off on his 2018 form.Mr. Cohen told lawmakers that Mr. Trump personally monitored negotiations to build a Trump Tower in Moscow, asking about it “at least a half-dozen times” between January and June 2016, even while running for president.“Mr. Trump knew of and directed the Trump Moscow negotiations throughout the campaign and lied about it,” Mr. Cohen said. “He lied about it because he never expected to win. He also lied about it because he stood to make hundreds of millions of dollars on the Moscow real estate project.”In previous testimony before his prosecution, Mr. Cohen lied to Congress by saying negotiations ended in January 2016. Mr. Trump did not explicitly instruct him to lie to Congress, Mr. Cohen said, but through his actions, he “made clear to me” that “he wanted me to lie,” and the president’s lawyers reviewed and even edited Mr. Cohen’s false statement to Congress.Mr. Cohen said he had no “direct evidence that Mr. Trump or his campaign colluded with Russia.” But, he added, “I have my suspicions.”He pointed to the June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in which Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s eldest son; Jared Kushner, his son-in-law; and Paul Manafort, the campaign chairman; met with visiting Russians after being told that they had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton from the Russian government.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Alexandra Leigh Young and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa TobinIn an extraordinary public hearing, Donald Trump’s former fixer — once known for being unflinchingly loyal — became the star witness against him.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Michael Cohen is headed to prison for lying on behalf of Donald Trump. Yesterday, he told Congress he’s done protecting the president. It’s Thursday, February 28. Maggie Haberman, how does this hearing actually begin on Wednesday morning?maggie habermanThe hearing began in very dramatic fashion with Elijah Cummings, who chairs the committee, a Democrat, holding the gavel. Michael Cohen walking in through this crush of photographers and reporters, trailed by Lanny Davis, his attorney and sometimes spokesman, trailed by another of his attorneys, not by any member of his family, who I believe he was worried about attending this hearing. He sat down. His face was wan. His eyes were puffy. He looked exhausted, and defeated, and beaten down. And you could hear a pin drop as he sat down.archived recording (elijah cummings)The committee will come to order.maggie habermanSo Cummings out of the gate —archived recording (elijah cummings)I now recognize myself for five minutes to give an opening statement.maggie haberman— addressed the issue of Michael Cohen’s credibility.archived recording (elijah cummings)He admitted to lying about his actions to protect the president. Some will certainly ask, if Mr. Cohen was lying then, why should we believe him now?archived recordingGood question.archived recording (elijah cummings)This is a legitimate question.maggie habermanIt was very clear that Republicans were going to go right at Cohen, accusing him of being a liar, somebody who has admitted to lying, including admitting to lying to Congress when he gave testimony before them in 2017. So Cummings was hoping to put that to bed at the outset.archived recording (elijah cummings)This is an important factor we need to weigh. But we must weigh it, and we must hear from him.michael barbaroAnd Maggie, I found it fascinating what Cummings did at the close of this opening statement. He delivers this message straight to Cohen.archived recording (elijah cummings)Martin Luther King, Mr. Cohen, said some words that I leave with you today before you testify. He said, faith is taking the first step, even when you can’t see the whole staircase. There comes a time when silence becomes betrayal. Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that truly matter. In the end, he says, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.maggie habermanAnd with that quote, he’s trying to set up Michael Cohen’s testimony — why he’s being truthful, that what he said before is a lie, and what he is saying now is the truth. And this was important for him to set this out as a way forward as the hearing began.archived recording (elijah cummings)Raise your right hand. Do you swear or affirm that the testimony that you are about to give is the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God? Let the record show that the witness answered in the affirmative. And thank you, and you may be seated.maggie habermanSo then Michael Cohen begins his opening statement. And it was long.archived recording (michael cohen)I hope my appearance here today, my guilty plea and my work with law enforcement agencies are steps along a path of redemption that will restore faith in me and help this country understand our president better.maggie habermanAnd he began again by apologizing for lying to Congress.archived recording (michael cohen)I am here under oath to correct the record, to answer the committee’s questions truthfully and to offer the American people what I know about President Trump.maggie habermanAnd then he turned to Donald Trump.archived recording (michael cohen)I am ashamed that I chose to take part in concealing Mr. Trump’s illicit acts rather than listening to my own conscience. I am ashamed because I know what Mr. Trump is.maggie habermanAnd he depicted Donald Trump as a unsavory, unethical, immoral character.archived recording (michael cohen)Mr. Trump is a racist. The country has seen Mr. Trump court white supremacists and bigots. You have heard him call poorer countries [expletive]. In private, he is even worse. He once asked me if I can name a country run by a black person that wasn’t a [expletive]. This was when Barack Obama was president of the United States. And while we were once driving through a struggling neighborhood in Chicago, he commented that only black people could live that way. And he told me that black people would never vote for him because they were too stupid.maggie habermanSomebody who told him from the Oval Office, in an Oval Office meeting, that he would be sending him a reimbursement for hush money payments.archived recording (michael cohen)Trump is a con man. He asked me to pay off an adult film star with whom he had an affair and to lie about it to his wife, which I did. And lying to the first lady is one of my biggest regrets.maggie habermanHe portrayed Donald Trump as a cheat.archived recording (michael cohen)And it should come as no surprise that one of my more common responsibilities was that Mr. Trump directed me to call business owners, many of whom are small businesses, that were owed money for their services, and told them that no payment or a reduced payment would be coming. When I told Mr. Trump of my success, he actually reveled in it.maggie habermanAs a schemer, who would inflate his net worth or devalue it, depending on what was useful for him at various points.archived recording (michael cohen)It was my experience that Mr. Trump inflated his total assets when it served his purposes, such as trying to be listed amongst the wealthiest people in Forbes, and deflated his assets to reduce his real estate taxes.maggie habermanAt one point, Michael Cohen told a very detailed story of Donald Trump’s relationship to the Vietnam War. Remember that Donald Trump has said that he had a deferment from the draft because he had, quote, unquote, bone spurs.archived recording (michael cohen)But when I asked for medical records, he gave me none, and said that there was no surgery. He told me not to answer the specific questions by reporters, but rather, offer simply the fact that he received a medical deferment. He finished the conversation with the following comment: “Do you think I’m stupid? I’m not going to Vietnam.”maggie habermanAnd at that moment, Michael Cohen looked directly into the camera.archived recording (michael cohen)And I find it ironic, Mr. President, that you are in Vietnam right now.michael barbaroRight.maggie habermanIt was damning stuff.archived recording (michael cohen)A lot of people have asked me about whether Mr. Trump knew about the release of the hacked documents, the Democratic National Committee emails, ahead of time. And the answer is yes. In July of 2016, days before the Democratic Convention, I was in Mr. Trump’s office when his secretary announced that Roger Stone was on the phone. Mr. Trump put Mr. Stone on the speakerphone. Mr. Stone told Mr. Trump that he had just gotten off the phone with Julian Assange, and that Mr. Assange told Mr. Stone that within a couple of days there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Mr. Trump responded by stating to the effect, wouldn’t that be great.michael barbaroAnd then he brings up, of course, the now-infamous Moscow project.maggie habermanRight.archived recording (michael cohen)I lied to Congress when Mr. Trump stopped negotiating the Moscow tower project in Russia. I stated that we stopped negotiating in January of 2016. That was false. Our negotiations continued for months later during the campaign.maggie habermanHe says that there were, you know, a handful of these conversations that went on into 2016, when it was clear that Donald Trump was going to be the Republican nominee.archived recording (michael cohen)Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates. In conversations we had during the campaign, at the same time I was actively negotiating in Russia for him, he would look me in the eye and tell me, “There’s no Russian business,” and then go on to lie to the American people by saying the same thing. In his way, he was telling me to lie. So to be clear, Mr. Trump knew of and directed the Trump Moscow negotiations throughout the campaign and lied about it.michael barbaroCohen’s almost describing, in this moment, a code, where, if Trump is saying to him, there is no Russia project, it’s almost like saying, there’s no Russia project, right? You’re never going to say there’s a Russia project. It’s like he’s trying to explain a foreign language in which Donald Trump is communicating to him, you should probably lie about this, without having to say it.maggie habermanThat’s exactly right. And he said that in his testimony, made very clear that this is how Donald Trump talks. He sort of knows where the line is, and he doesn’t speak overtly. It is what former federal prosecutors have described as mob speak, the style that mafia bosses speak in to avoid crossing a legal line. And while Michael Cohen did not explicitly say that part, he did say that Donald Trump spoke in a code and that Michael Cohen understood that code.archived recording (michael cohen)He doesn’t give you questions. He doesn’t give you orders. He speaks in a code. And I understand the code, because I’ve been around him for a decade.michael barbaroMaggie, did it come as a surprise to you to hear Michael Cohen saying any of this? You’ve known both of these men for years. And you’ve known them as a unit. What was it like to hear Cohen saying these things about Donald Trump?maggie habermanEven knowing that this was coming, it was mind-blowing hearing Michael Cohen saying this in public. No one who has worked for Trump in recent years has gone on the record to say things like this. And it was staggering. And it was so at odds with the portrait of fealty that Michael Cohen had presented with reporters, with everyone, toward Donald Trump over a decade.michael barbaroMm-hmm.maggie habermanAnd remember, Donald Trump creates an eagerness in people around him to get something of a head pat from him, to get an encouragement, to get an attaboy. Cohen got very skilled at trying for that attaboy.michael barbaroAnd seemed to be kind of addicted to it.maggie habermanAnd seemed to be addicted to it, seemed to revel in it, clearly reveled in his proximity.archived recording (michael cohen)Over the past year or so, I have done some real soul-searching. And I see now that my ambition and the intoxication of Trump power had much to do with the bad decisions, in part, that I made.maggie habermanHe was involved in taking care of messes that Donald Trump wanted taken care of. He was willing to do those things. One of them was payoffs to women. And the notion that somebody who was so closely involved in that would be willing to discuss it publicly, not just behind closed doors with investigators, not just as prosecutors were bearing down on him, but freely, in public, in a hearing, under oath, was just breathtaking.michael barbaroThere’s a moment where Cohen says to the members of the committee —archived recording (michael cohen)The last time I appeared before Congress, I came to protect Mr. Trump. Today —michael barbaroToday, I’m here to tell you the truth —archived recording (michael cohen)I am here to tell the truth about Mr. Trump.michael barbaro— about Mr. Trump. As if to say, the spell has been broken. I’m out of that world now. And I kind of wonder if that’s really possible, but also how it happened.maggie habermanWell, I think it is really possible, because I think their break has been so incredibly clean, given what has happened to Michael Cohen. Remember, when the F.B.I. raided his hotel and apartment and office in April of 2018, he was still standing by Trump. That clearly has changed. We saw Republicans argue that the reason that changed for Michael Cohen was because he was facing charges of his own. And the president has certainly suggested that. Cohen has been utterly stripped of everything that he valued, his business, his law license. He has been humiliated publicly. He has been abandoned by a lot of friends, and by the president, and by the president’s circle. And so I do think that it is certainly a real split. I think that people are going to have to assess, looking at his testimony, whether they think it’s a real conversion, but it’s definitely a real break.archived recording (michael cohen)I am not a perfect man. I have done things I am not proud of. And I will live with the consequences of my actions for the rest of my life. But today, I get to decide the example that I set for my children and how I attempt to change how history will remember me. I may not be able to change the past, but I can do right by the American people here today. And I thank you for your attention. And I’m happy to answer the committee’s questions.archived recording (elijah cummings)Thank you very much, Mr. Cohen. I now recognize myself.michael barbaroSo then the questions begin from the committee members.maggie habermanRight.archived recording (elijah cummings)You said you brought some checks, is that right?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, sir.maggie habermanAnd first we have Cummings asking Cohen to elaborate on the details of these reimbursement checks that he got, that he brought with him.archived recording (elijah cummings)So let me make sure I understand. Donald Trump wrote you a check out of his personal account while he was serving as president of the United States of America to reimburse you for hush money payments to Ms. Clifford, is that what you are telling the American people today?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, Mr. Chairman.maggie habermanAnd it was among the more dramatic moments that we saw. Because Cummings is getting to the fact that the sitting president was part of this scheme that was, at minimum, sleazy and illicit, and at maximum could have some criminal exposure. And they were leaving nothing to doubt as to what Cohen was saying took place.archived recording (elijah cummings)Is there any doubt in your mind that President Trump knew exactly what he was paying for?archived recording (michael cohen)There is no doubt in my mind. And I truly believe there is no doubt in the minds of the people of the United States of America.archived recording (elijah cummings)With that I’ll yield to —maggie habermanJim Jordan, another ally of the president, quoted something that Michael Cohen once said to a reporter from The Daily Beast.archived recording (jim jordan)“I will make sure that you and I meet one day while we’re in the courthouse and I will take you for every penny you still don’t have.”maggie habermanAnd this has now become a famous anecdote, where he threatened a reporter who was pursuing a story about an old court claim from the divorce filing between Ivana Trump and Donald Trump, where she had alleged marital rape. And Cohen said —archived recording (jim jordan)“And I will come after your Daily Beast and everybody else that you possibly know. So I’m warning you — ”maggie haberman“So I’m warning you, tread very f-ing lightly” — it wasn’t f-ing.archived recording (jim jordan)“Because what I’m going to do to you is going to be f-ing disgusting, you understand me?”maggie habermanAnd he was then asked by Jim Jordan, “Mr. Cohen, who said that?”archived recording (jim jordan)Mr. Cohen, who said that?archived recording (michael cohen)I did.maggie habermanAnd it’s an incident that I think he would say that he really was doing for Trump and not for himself. But it was a way to sully his character and create a portrait of thuggishness.archived recording (jim jordan)And did you say that, Mr. Cohen, was that statement that I just read that you admitted to saying, did you do that to protect Donald Trump?archived recording (michael cohen)I did it to protect Mr. Trump, Donald Trump, Jr., Ivanka Trump and Eric Trump.michael barbaroBut I wonder, who does it look worse for, the person who did it, or the person on whose behalf it was done?maggie habermanRight. I understand that Jim Jordan is trying to muddy Michael Cohen with that. But I think for most people, they are going to look at that, and especially after the president takes to Twitter and suggests that people ought to be looking into Michael Cohen’s family, I think most people are still going to see that as looking worse for Trump, because Michael Cohen was doing this as Trump’s lawyer.michael barbaroSo while Republicans are largely avoiding talking about the president at all costs in this hearing, in focusing on sullying Cohen’s character and reputation, they may be actually sullying President Trump’s.maggie habermanCorrect. They were essentially trying to peel Cohen off from Trump. And what became clear as their efforts went on throughout the hearing is that that is impossible to do. When you have had somebody serve as a lawyer for Donald Trump, so identified with him publicly over 10 years, you can’t take a shot at Cohen and not end up having it ricochet onto Trump too.archived recordingSo we’ve established that you lie on your taxes, you lie to banks, and you have been convicted of lying to Congress. It seems to me that there’s not much that you won’t lie about when you stand to gain from it.michael barbaroAnd where do the questions go from here?maggie habermanSo —archived recordingEverything’s been made of your lies in the past. I’m concerned about your lies today.maggie habermanAfter that it became a, you know —archived recordingBut there’s no truth with you whatsoever.maggie haberman— one by one, down the line, Republicans suggesting that Michael Cohen was —archived recordingLiar, liar, pants on fire.maggie habermanReally in it for the fame.archived recordingIs your appearance here today motivated by your desire to remain in the spotlight for your personal benefit?archived recording (michael cohen)No, ma’am.maggie habermanOr he was really in it for the money. They asked him —archived recordingIs there a book deal coming or anything like that?archived recording (michael cohen)I have no book deal right now.maggie habermanOne after the other about prospective book deals or movie deals.archived recordingIsn’t it true you tried to sell a book about your time with President Trump, entitled “Trump Revolution: From the Tower to the White House, Understanding Donald J. Trump“?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, that happened —maggie habermanOr had he pitched a book of his own?michael barbaroAnd what did he say?maggie habermanHe said yes.archived recording (michael cohen)I have been contacted by many, including for television, a movie. If you want to tell me who you would like to play you, I’m more than happy to write the name down.michael barbaroAnd what about the Democrats?archived recording (elijah cummings)Mr. Raskin.archived recording (jamie raskin)Mr. Cohen, thank you for your composure today. Our colleagues are not upset because you lied to Congress for the president. They’re upset because you’ve stopped lying to Congress for the president.maggie habermanThe Democrats tried to keep it really mostly on Trump and the things that Michael Cohen did for Trump.archived recordingAnd nothing at the Trump Organization was ever done unless it was run through President Donald Trump, correct?archived recording (michael cohen)That’s 100 percent certain.archived recordingO.K.maggie habermanHe described, and it was really interesting, he described everybody as being solely devoted to protecting the brand and reputation of one man, Donald Trump. He said that nothing happened at the company unless Donald Trump was aware of it or signed off on it. He argued that Trump was a demanding and exacting and punishing boss. He described the entire effort as being about maximizing the gold-plated version of Donald Trump that we have all become very familiar with.archived recordingThere’s a recurring refrain in your testimony that says, and yet, I continued to work for him. But at some point you changed. What was the breaking point at which you decided to start telling the truth?archived recording (michael cohen)There are several factors — Helsinki, Charlottesville.maggie habermanHe went on this litany of moments that he said disgusted him. There were the president’s comments after Charlottesville, that it was, you know, various instance of discourteous behavior by the president, of untoward behavior toward citizens.archived recording (michael cohen)Watching the daily destruction of our civility to one another, putting up silly things like this.archived recordingOh, that’s silly.archived recording (michael cohen)Really unbecoming of Congress.maggie habermanHe clearly got angry. And then he sort of turned it back on Republicans and said to them, essentially —archived recording (michael cohen)It’s that sort of behavior that I’m responsible for. I’m responsible for your silliness. Because I did the same thing that you’re doing now, for 10 years. I protected Mr. Trump for 10 years.maggie habermanYou are what I was. You are all blindly following him. And there is a real risk to doing that, because you could end up like me someday.archived recording (michael cohen)And I can only warn people, the more people that follow Mr. Trump, as I did blindly, are going to suffer the same consequences that I’m suffering.maggie habermanIt was a gripping and captivating moment.michael barbaroRight, it was a sort of surprising level of self-awareness, and I guess also self-loathing too.maggie habermanIt was both. It was self-effacing. It was clearly uncomfortable. It was acknowledging that he is a deeply imperfect person who did imperfect things that he is not proud of, and he said a version of that earlier in the hearing. But it was really striking, because this is a comment that Republicans who opposed Donald Trump, and they’re not very many of them who are that vocal anymore, but that they have said repeatedly that the Republican Party has become a cult of personality, or just a cult. And that people just blindly follow along with what Donald Trump wants, whether it is wise or not, whether it is safe or not, and whether he is telling the truth or not. And that is what Cohen was getting at.archived recordingWhat do you want your children to know?archived recording (michael cohen)That I’m sorry for everything. And I’m sorry for the pain that I’ve caused them. And um — I wish I could go back in time.archived recordingThank you, I yield back.archived recording (elijah cummings)The gentlelady’s time has expired.michael barbaroMaggie, I wonder if you feel like you understand what’s motivating Michael Cohen throughout this hours-long hearing, to say what he’s saying, to concede what he’s conceding, to kind of humble himself the way he did. He’s been convicted of a crime. He’s headed to prison. He has been disbarred. What exactly is animating him at this point?maggie habermanI think a number of things are animating him. But I think among them is that he doesn’t want to be the leper of this story forever. He said months ago that he does not want to be the villain in the Trump story. And I think that’s how he feels. I think that he does not want to be remembered as this footnote in history. I think he’s going to prison. And I think he doesn’t have a whole lot left to lose. And I think that he would like to try to make people remember other things about him and tell a more nuanced tale.michael barbaroAnd so, what did this hearing, in your mind, achieve? How will this hearing be remembered in this larger story?maggie habermanI think this hearing is either going to be, on its own, just a breathtaking historical moment, the likes of which I don’t know if we’ll ever see again. But it was pretty striking to see. Or it is going to be the initial phases of a much broader, deeper governmental investigation by House Democrats into the Trump presidency, not just his own personal activities, but the activities of his government. And allowing Michael Cohen to have a setting where he talks about these things, and where he can be questioned, and where he is a key starting witness could be the first step in paving the way toward an impeachment process, if that is where Democrats go. If that ends up leading to something bigger, then Democrats will feel as if this was a key foundation for it. But it’s too early to say, I think.archived recording (michael cohen)I have some closing remarks I would like to say myself. Is this an appropriate time?archived recording (elijah cummings)You can do it now.archived recording (michael cohen)Thank you.michael barbaroMaggie, how does this one of hearing finally come to an end?maggie habermanSeven and a half hours after Michael Cohen first entered this room, sitting pretty patiently through all of these questions, not losing his temper, he was given an opportunity to speak not just to the committee members, but to the president.archived recording (michael cohen)In closing, I’d like to say directly to the president, we honor our veterans, even in the rain. You tell the truth, even when it doesn’t aggrandize you.maggie habermanAnd he used that opportunity to send a message to his former boss, saying, you don’t need to be this person.archived recording (michael cohen)You take responsibility for your own dirty deeds. You don’t use your power of your bully pulpit to destroy the credibility of those who speak out against you. You don’t separate families from one another or demonize those looking to America for a better life. You don’t vilify people based on the God they pray to. And you don’t cuddle up to our adversaries at the expense of our allies.maggie habermanAnd what he was saying to the president, you and I both know who you are, and he was saying to the members of the committee, you should believe me when I say that I understand this man.archived recording (michael cohen)So to those who support the president and his rhetoric, as I once did, I pray the country doesn’t make the same mistakes that I have made or pay the heavy price that my family and I are paying. And I thank you very much for this additional time, Chairman.archived recording (elijah cummings)Thank you very much.maggie habermanAnd when Michael Cohen was done, Elijah Cummings closed with this note of grace toward Michael Cohen.archived recording (elijah cummings)So you wonder whether people believe you. I don’t know. I don’t know whether they believe you. But the fact is that you’ve come, you have your head down. And this has got to be one of the hardest things that you could do.maggie habermanThat was the moment when Michael Cohen started crying. And he really hadn’t done that. He was clearly weeping.archived recording (elijah cummings)I know that you face a lot. I know that you are worried about your family. But this is a part of your destiny.maggie habermanAnd Cummings basically told Cohen, you are doing what you should be doing. You are heading toward the light in this moment.archived recording (elijah cummings)And hopefully, this portion of your destiny will lead to a better — a better Michael Cohen, a better Donald Trump, a better United States of America and a better world.michael barbaroMaggie, thank you very, very much. We appreciate it.maggie habermanMichael, thanks for having me.archived recording (elijah cummings)And we have got to get back to normal. With that, this meeting is adjourned. [MUSIC PLAYING]michael barbaroWe’ll be right back. Here’s what else you need to know today. On Wednesday, Pakistan said it had shot down two Indian fighter jets and captured a pilot from one of them in the latest escalation of hostilities between the two countries. The attack is heightening fears that the decades-old animosities between India and Pakistan could spiral into war. The latest episode began on February 14th, when jihadis operating out of Pakistan killed 40 Indian soldiers, prompting airstrikes from India, and now, a military response from Pakistan.archived recording[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] Bomb blast victims in [INAUDIBLE].michael barbaroIn a speech on Wednesday, the prime minister of Pakistan urged restraint, citing the two countries’ arsenals of nuclear weapons, saying quote, “All big wars have been due to miscalculation. My question to India is that given the weapons we have, can we afford miscalculation?”archived recording[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]michael barbaroAnd in North Carolina on Wednesday, a campaign operative at the center of allegations of election fraud, McCrae Dallas, was arrested and indicted over his handling of absentee ballots in 2016 and 2018. Dallas, who collected absentee ballots for Republican congressional candidate Mark Harris last fall, was charged with obstruction of justice and possession of absentee ballots. As a result of Dallas’ conduct, North Carolina will hold a new election for the 9th congressional district. Harris, who hired Dallas, has withdrawn from that race. [MUSIC PLAYING] That’s it for The Daily. I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.The president has denied knowing about the meeting. But Mr. Cohen cast doubt on that, saying he was in Mr. Trump’s office one day in June 2016 when Donald Jr. came in, went behind his father’s desk and, speaking in a low voice, said, “The meeting is all set.” The candidate, he said, replied, “O.K., good. Let me know.”Mr. Cohen said that might have referred to the Russia meeting because “Mr. Trump had frequently told me and others that his son Don Jr. had the worst judgment of anyone in the world” and that his son “would never set up any meeting of significance alone and certainly not without checking with his father.”Mr. Cohen also recalled being in Mr. Trump’s office shortly before the Democratic National Convention in 2016 when Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime adviser, called. Mr. Trump put him on speaker phone and Mr. Stone reported that he had just spoken with Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, who said “that within a couple of days, there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign.”In an interview last month with The New York Times, Mr. Trump denied speaking with Mr. Stone about WikiLeaks and the emails. Mr. Assange’s lawyer issued a statement on Wednesday disputing Mr. Cohen’s account.The hearing left some questions unanswered, and Democrats pledged to press for more details about the Russia investigation when Mr. Cohen appears Thursday for a private interview with the House Intelligence Committee.Mr. Cohen offered some tantalizing hints of more to come. Asked about his last conversation with Mr. Trump, he said he could not answer because it is “being investigated right now” by federal prosecutors in New York. Asked if he knew of other wrongdoing or crimes by Mr. Trump, he said: “Yes. And again, those are part of the investigation.”More generally, Mr. Cohen compared Mr. Trump to a mobster who inflated his net worth to the public while understating it to tax authorities, rigged an art auction using his charitable foundation and threatened those who got in his way.Mr. Cohen estimated that Mr. Trump had asked him to threaten someone perhaps 500 times over 10 years, from berating a “nasty reporter” to warning of lawsuits. He provided letters he wrote during the campaign at Mr. Trump’s direction to the president’s high school, colleges and the College Board threatening civil and criminal action if they released his grades or SAT scores.Mr. Trump did not run for president to make the country great, according to Mr. Cohen, instead calling his campaign the “greatest infomercial in political history” for his business. “He never expected to win the primary,” he said. “He never expected to win the general election. The campaign, for him, was always a marketing opportunity.” But now, Mr. Cohen said, he fears that if Mr. Trump loses re-election next year, “there will never be a peaceful transition of power.”The former lawyer also described racist comments. Mr. Trump asked if he could “name a country run by a black person that wasn’t a shithole” and, while driving through a struggling neighborhood, remarked that only African-Americans could live that way. “He told me that black people would never vote for him because they were too stupid,” Mr. Cohen said.Except for one Trump skeptic, Republicans did not ask about the president’s conduct or, for that matter, offer any sustained defense of Mr. Trump. Instead, they pressed their argument that Mr. Cohen was not to be believed. They argued that he lied even in signing a committee form that did not disclose work for a bank in Kazakhstan.“You’re a pathological liar,” charged Representative Paul Gosar of Arizona.“Are you referring to me or the president?” Mr. Cohen retorted.Mr. Cohen suggested Republicans were falling into the trap he did, trading their honor for a president who did not deserve it.“I did the same thing that you’re doing now for 10 years,” he said. “I protected Mr. Trump for 10 years.”Kenneth P. Vogel contributed reporting.Follow Peter Baker and Nicholas Fandos on Twitter: @peterbakernyt @npfandosAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jim Tankersley and Michael TackettWASHINGTON — President Trump sent Congress on Monday a record $4.75 trillion budget plan that calls for increased military spending and sharp cuts to domestic programs like education and environmental protection for the 2020 fiscal year.Mr. Trump’s budget, the largest in federal history, includes a nearly 5 percent increase in military spending — which is more than the Pentagon had asked for — and an additional $8.6 billion for construction of a wall along the border with Mexico. It also contains what White House officials called a total of $1.9 trillion in cost savings from mandatory safety-net programs, like Medicaid and Medicare, the federal health care programs for the elderly and the poor.The budget is unlikely to have much effect on actual spending levels, which are controlled by Congress. Democratic leaders in both the House and the Senate pronounced the budget dead on arrival on Sunday, and Mr. Trump’s budgets largely failed to gain traction in previous years, when fellow Republicans controlled both chambers.But the blueprint is a declaration of Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign priorities and the starting skirmish in the race for 2020, as both Republicans and Democrats try to carve out their messages to appeal to voters.The president’s budget quickly antagonized Democrats while making clear the contours of how he plans to run for re-election. It is replete with aggressively optimistic economic assumptions and appeals to his core constituents, and it envisions deep cuts to programs that Democrats hold dear. Yet it projects trillion-dollar deficits for the next four years and does not balance the budget for 15 years.Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, called the proposal “a gut punch to the American middle class.” He said Mr. Trump’s requested cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, “as well as numerous other middle-class programs, are devastating, but not surprising.”The budget would curb the growth of Medicare and Medicaid, two programs Mr. Trump had previously pledged to leave intact. And it proposes shaving $818 billion from projected spending on Medicare over 10 years and cutting nearly $1.5 trillion from projected spending on Medicaid.In place of the open-ended federal contribution to Medicaid, Mr. Trump would give states “market-based health care grants” — lump sums of federal money or per capita allotments — totaling $1.2 trillion over 10 years. Congress rejected this idea in 2017 when Republicans proposed it because it would essentially cap Medicaid payments at a fixed level and would not keep pace with rising health care costs.Mr. Trump also proposed new work requirements for working-age adult recipients of food stamps, federal housing support and Medicaid, a move the administration said would reduce spending on those programs by $327 billion over a decade because it would disqualify many who currently receive assistance.Payments to a variety of health care providers would also be cut. Medicare payments to hospitals for unpaid bills and uncompensated care would be reduced by $136 billion over 10 years. Mr. Trump would cut projected Medicare payments to hospital outpatient departments by $131 billion over 10 years.In addition, the budget squeezes more than $100 billion over 10 years from Medicare payments to nursing homes and home health agencies that care for Medicare patients who have left the hospital.The president offers a suite of proposals to lower prescription drug prices, with federal savings estimated at $69 billion over 10 years. The changes to the drug program may have the effect of increasing premiums for Americans who rely on Medicare, but they would also, for the first time, limit the amount that seniors with very expensive drugs could be asked to pay each year. Some of the plans resemble proposals unsuccessfully offered by President Barack Obama.And Mr. Trump proposed spending $26 billion less on Social Security programs, the federal retirement program, including a $10 billion cut to the Social Security Disability Insurance program, which provides benefits to disabled workers. Those cuts would be achieved in various ways, including more aggressively policing fraud in the program.The largest reductions would come from spending on discretionary domestic programs, outside of the military, which would be cut by $1.1 trillion over the course of a decade.Those cuts would not be across the board but would come from federal agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency, which Mr. Trump once promised he would reduce to “little tidbits.” The budget proposes cutting the E.P.A.’s funding by 31 percent.Significant reductions are also requested at other agencies responsible for the United States’ energy and environmental policies, including a 70 percent cut in renewable energy research and the elimination of climate science programs across an array of agencies.Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.The administration requested $31.7 billion for the Energy Department, an 11 percent drop from current funding. That includes about $696 million for the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, which provides hundreds of millions of dollars in grants each year for research into electric vehicles, battery storage and building efficiency.It targeted the Interior Department for a 14 percent decrease, dropping its overall budget to $12.5 billion.While Congress is unlikely to accept most of the changes, they underscore the Trump administration’s commitment to unraveling Obama-era environmental regulations — particularly those addressing climate change — and to prioritizing the development of fossil fuel resources.At the E.P.A., the administration aims to cut a $66 million collection of voluntary climate-change-related partnerships known as the Atmospheric Protection Program that, among other things, helps businesses and local governments track planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions. It also zeros out $19 million that had been devoted to scientific research on climate change. Under a line item called “prioritize robust science,” the agency proposes a cut to $263 million from $481 million.For the third year in a row, Mr. Trump’s budget would also cut funding for the Education Department, this time by 10 percent. Congress has repeatedly rejected efforts to reduce the department’s spending — lawmakers instead increased funding for the department last year — but an Education Department official said this year’s request reflected the “desire to have some fiscal discipline and address some higher priority needs.”The budget seeks to cut more than two dozen programs, including a popular after-school program for many low-income students. It would eliminate higher-education programs, like the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program and subsidized federal Stafford loans, and reduce work-study funding as officials tweak the program to offer more career-oriented jobs for low-income students.The budget also requests $700 million for school safety initiatives being coordinated by several agencies, including $200 million for the Education Department. The funding would help schools finance emergency operation plans, counseling and behavioral health programs. There are no requirements for firearms, the department said. A $1 billion federal grant program that school districts looked to tap last year for firearms would be eliminated.A few domestic spending programs would see increases, if Mr. Trump’s budget were to become law. Those include efforts to reduce opioid addiction, as well as a 10 percent increase in health care spending for veterans. Mr. Trump will also propose a new voucher program for education, $200 billion in infrastructure spending and efforts to reduce the cost of prescription drugs.The budget would not balance for 15 years, breaking Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign promise to pay off the entire national debt within eight years. Mr. Trump’s first budget proposed balancing revenue and spending in 10 years. The budget released on Monday forecasts trillion-dollar deficits for four straight years, starting in 2019. Those are largely the result of Mr. Trump’s tax cut, which has been financed through increased government borrowing.Budget details released by White House officials highlight several areas of conflict between Democrats and Mr. Trump, starting with immigration enforcement. Along with renewing the wall funding fight that led to a record government shutdown late last year, Mr. Trump is asking for more personnel at Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement and for a policy change meant to end so-called sanctuary cities, which do not hand over undocumented immigrants to federal officials when they are arrested in local crimes.“This budget is a recipe for American decline,” said Representative John Yarmuth, Democrat of Kentucky and the chairman of the House Budget Committee. “It’s laughable that this budget is subtitled ‘Promises Kept,’ because in fact there are a lot of promises that have been violated in this budget.”“This is a budget that we will not take seriously when we are working on our budget and spending priorities for 2020,” he said.Disapproval from Democratic presidential candidates was just as blunt. “This is a budget for the military industrial complex, for corporate C.E.O.s, for Wall Street and for the billionaire class,” Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, said in a statement. “It is dead on arrival.”Even some prominent Republicans greeted the president’s request somewhat coolly because it did not go far enough to reduce the growing national debt.Representative Steve Womack, Republican of Arkansas and the ranking member on the Budget Committee, noted that only by cutting mandatory spending could the federal government seriously reduce deficits and debt.“President Trump’s budget takes steps in the right direction, but there is still much work to do,” Mr. Womack said in a statement.Administration officials fanned out to defend the budget. Russ Vought, the acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, blamed Democrats and Congress for the ballooning deficit, even though Democrats have not controlled Congress for years.“We do have large deficits. That’s why we’re here transparently saying that we have a problem as a country,” he said. “It takes a long time to get out of that mess.”An earlier version of this article misstated the name of an immigration law enforcement agency. It is Immigration and Customs Enforcement, not Customs and Immigration Enforcement.Reporting was contributed by Robert Pear, Erica L. Green, Lisa Friedman, Margot Sanger-Katz and Emily Cochrane.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Mark Mazzetti and Katie BennerWASHINGTON — The investigation led by Robert S. Mueller III found no evidence that President Trump or any of his aides coordinated with the Russian government’s 2016 election interference, according to a summary of the special counsel’s key findings made public on Sunday by Attorney General William P. Barr.Mr. Mueller, who spent nearly two years investigating Moscow’s determined effort to sabotage the last presidential election, found no conspiracy “despite multiple offers from Russian-affiliated individuals to assist the Trump campaign,” Mr. Barr wrote in a letter to lawmakers.Mr. Mueller’s team drew no conclusions about whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice, Mr. Barr said, so he made his own decision. The attorney general and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, determined that the special counsel’s investigators had insufficient evidence to establish that the president committed that offense.He cautioned, however, that Mr. Mueller’s report states that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him” on the obstruction of justice issue.Still, the release of the findings was a significant political victory for Mr. Trump and lifted a cloud that has hung over his presidency since before he took the oath of office. It is also likely to alter discussion in Congress about the fate of the Trump presidency; some Democrats had pledged to wait until the special counsel finished his work before deciding whether to initiate impeachment proceedings.The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.[Read the key Mueller findings.]The president trumpeted the news almost immediately, even as he mischaracterized the special counsel’s findings. “It was a complete and total exoneration,” Mr. Trump told reporters in Florida before boarding Air Force One. “It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this.”He added, “This was an illegal takedown that failed.”Mr. Barr’s letter was the culmination of a tense two days since Mr. Mueller delivered his report to the Justice Department. Mr. Barr spent the weekend poring over the special counsel’s work, as Mr. Trump strategized with lawyers and political aides at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida.Mr. Mueller, who has been a spectral presence in the capital for nearly two years — so often discussed, but so rarely seen — was photographed leaving a church on Sunday morning just across Lafayette Square from the White House.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa TobinWhat does the Mueller report say? The attorney general offered an early glimpse.michael schmidtHello? Hello? Hello?maggie habermanHello.michael schmidtMaggie?maggie habermanHi.michael schmidtCan you hear me?maggie habermanYes, can you hear me?michael schmidtYeah, hold on, hold on, hold on. Wearing two headphones right now.maggie habermanMm. Sounds about right.michael schmidtCan you hear me? Oh, that’s better.maggie habermanWe gotcha. We’re just waiting on the star.michael barbaroHi.maggie habermanIt’s Michael Barbaro, host of “The Daily.”michael schmidtDoo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today — Attorney General William Barr has sent a letter to Congress summarizing the findings of the special counsel investigation: No coordination with Russia. More complicated on obstruction of justice. My colleagues Maggie Haberman and Mike Schmidt explain. It’s Monday, March 25. O.K. Maggie, like, it is 6:00 p.m. on Sunday evening. Two hours ago, the attorney general, Bill Barr, sent a letter to congressional leaders outlining the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report.michael schmidtThe report is broken into two parts. The first one is on the biggest, most central question that has surrounded the president since he was elected: What are the ties between his campaign and Russia? And on that issue, Barr is unequivocal.michael barbaroWhat does he say?michael schmidtHe says there are no ties between what Russia did in the election and Trump’s campaign. That despite how aggressively the Russians tried to interfere in our election, and even outreach that they made to the campaign, they were able to find no evidence that they actually worked together.michael barbaroBut Mike, help me understand this. In the lead-up to the report, the Mueller investigation issued a number of subpoenas and charges that felt like they revealed forms of collusion. I’m thinking about Papadopoulos, Manafort, a meeting inside Trump Tower that involved the president’s son and his son-in-law. Those all felt like forms of collusion.michael schmidtI think that what went on was that the Trump campaign was sort of collusion-curious in the sense that they were open to sort of talking to anyone about anything. And the Russians were reaching out right. And that meant that there were a lot of odd contacts that occurred. What I think Mueller and Barr are saying is that even though a lot of that stuff looks funky, we have no evidence that they linked hands and tried to work together to hurt Clinton.michael barbaroSo collusion-curious does not equal coordination.maggie habermanNo. Being interested in getting information is something that you have heard either the president say or people around the president say. You know, of course, we took these meetings. Of course when people reached out to us, we listened to them. Who wouldn’t? Their argument has been that they were just doing what anyone would do. And the other argument they’ve made repeatedly is that they were too discombobulated and too green and too new at this to even know how to collude. And as someone who covered that campaign, I can tell you there is some logic to that argument.michael barbaroAs somebody who’s slightly more removed from the day to day of this investigation than either of you, it’s starting to feel from this summary from Bill Barr of the Mueller report that what the investigation found was what we all kind of knew the investigation found as it was finding. That there was nothing all that big being held back. And that helps us understand this conclusion.maggie habermanWhat we saw in indictments either of Paul Manafort, or of his deputy Rick Gates, who pleaded guilty, or of Mike Flynn or George Papadopoulos, this might have been, it seems, all there was. This was all the information that they were able to prove existed.michael barbaroMike, what do you think of that?michael schmidtLet’s go back and look at the indictments and guilty pleas. George Papadopoulos, a campaign official who had contacts with individuals who said the Russians were going to be releasing information about Hillary Clinton’s emails before it came out. When George Papadopoulos pleads guilty, he does not plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to investigators about that contact. The president’s former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, has these odd phone calls with the Russian ambassador during the transition in which they discuss lifting sanctions that have just been imposed by the Obama administration for election meddling. When Mike Flynn goes into court to plead guilty, he doesn’t plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to the F.B.I. about it. So as we went along in the investigation over the past 22 months, we never saw charges that said that the campaign conspired with Russia. There was some question — was Mueller holding out something like that until the end? Was he going to wait and then make a move on it? Well, today, we know that they never found anything.michael barbaroRight. He wasn’t making those kinds of indictments because he didn’t have any evidence of it.maggie habermanOr at least he didn’t have enough to bring an indictment. I mean, he might have found strains of information, he might have found pieces along the way, but it clearly was not enough to bring a charge.michael barbaroSo in the end, this was a bunch of people around the president lying, perhaps to avoid what might look like coordination if they were going to tell the truth, but not actually coordinating, according to the legal definition.michael schmidtCorrect.michael barbaroAnd what about the second question in this letter, the question of obstruction of justice? What does Barr’s summary of the Mueller report say about that?michael schmidtSo the obstruction part is not nearly as clean-cut as the collusion section. On obstruction, Barr essentially says that Mueller did not come to his own determination on whether the president obstructed justice. That Mueller could not indict or exonerate the president for that charge. But that left the door open for Barr to say, look, Mueller has not made a determination on this. I, as the attorney general, along with the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, will make that call. And we do not believe there is a case to be made the president obstructed justice.michael barbaroI don’t quite understand what’s going on here. Why do we think, Mike, that Mueller declined to weigh in on this question of obstruction of justice? Why leave it kind of up in the air?maggie habermanThere’s not really a full explanation for that. And I’m not sure. For the past 22 months, Democrats and a lot of folks in the media have built Mueller up as sort of this paragon of justice, and someone who was willing and able to go out and make determinations and calls on really tough issues in non-partisan, follow-the-facts ways. And here, we have Mueller essentially saying, I don’t really have a determination on it. For each of the relevant actions, the letter says, that were investigated, the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the special counsel views as, quote, “difficult issues of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction.” The special counsel states that, quote, “while this report does not conclude the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.”michael barbaroLet’s pick apart what I think we can all agree is the most salient example of this, where maybe disentangling motive and law and obstruction of justice is really tangled up. And that would be the firing of James Comey. The president at first says it’s not about Russia, then goes on television, says, it really is about Russia. And yet we all know that the president can pretty much fire anyone at that level if he wants to. Is that what Bill Barr, in summarizing Mueller, is saying? That this stuff is just really difficult, and so we’re not making a call?maggie habermanMueller is saying this is really difficult, and it’s hard to get in the president’s head and know what his intent was and his frame of mind was. And he decides that he is not going to be the one to make that call. Bill Barr, not wanting, I think, to leave this as an open-ended thing puts a pin in it and says, this is done.michael barbaroAnd says, I will make that call.maggie habermanI will make that call. And we do not believe that this is sufficient to say that the president obstructed justice. And remember, obstruction of justice was key to Richard Nixon. This was a piece that the president’s folks were worried about. They had felt really confident the whole time that there would not be an evidence-based case of conspiracy related to Russia. But they were concerned about what it would find on the obstruction piece.michael schmidtInterestingly — and I still don’t think this issue has gotten enough attention — the central question here was the president’s intent when he took actions like firing Comey. But at the end of the day, the president of the United States never sat for an interview with investigators to answer those questions. So here you have the attorney general saying, this thing is done, but we’ve never heard from Donald Trump on it. And the reason we never heard from Donald Trump on it was that his lawyers were so afraid that if he sat down to answer questions, he would make a factually inaccurate statement and would increase his criminal exposure.michael barbaroAnd it’s within the president’s rights not to sit down for such an interview.michael schmidtThat’s not true. The Justice Department could have subpoenaed him for an interview.michael barbaroBut why didn’t they?michael schmidtOne of the unanswered questions in this. But in an investigation where the central question was what was the president’s intent, Bob Mueller was never able to ask him that question.michael barbaroBut he wasn’t able to ask him the question because he never issued a subpoena. He never pursued all legal avenues?maggie habermanWe don’t know whether he pursued a legal avenue and was told that there wasn’t sufficient anything to go get a subpoena, or whether he just didn’t seek one. And that is, to me right now as we sit here, an open question. I don’t know whether Bob Mueller actually sought to go after this subpoena, which a lot of people thought that he would do. We’re not going to know for some time.michael schmidtBut what we did learn on Friday when Barr first announced the end of the Mueller investigation was there was no instance in the investigation where Mueller wanted to take a major step, like indict someone, or subpoena them, or get a search warrant, in which he was told by his superiors at the Justice Department that he could not do that. So that would sort of bolster the argument that Mueller was not stopped by the Justice Department from seeking a subpoena to interview the president. He’s saying there were no instances in which Mueller was stopped from moving forward with something he wanted to do.michael barbaroNo matter what, in this moment where so much of this second question of obstruction of justice comes down to the president’s motivation, which is essentially a matter of getting into someone’s head, never hearing from President Trump feels very significant.maggie habermanIt’s a huge deal. Barr lays it out in this letter to Congress about what Mueller’s thinking was, where he describes that the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question. And I think what you have there is the president’s lawyers have repeatedly offered up explanations for why the president could have been doing something that were not necessarily nefarious or that were not undermining. And the main thing that they have said over and over is, this isn’t obstruction because it’s all playing out in public. It’s not hidden. He has a right to express his views as a citizen of the country. And I anticipate that should we ever see what is in this report, that is going to show up a lot.michael schmidtWhen Maggie and I would talk to Rudy Giuliani during the investigation —michael barbaroThe president’s lawyer.michael schmidtHe would say things like, obstruction of justice and trying to interfere in an investigation is going into a dark alley and threatening to break someone’s leg if they cooperate with investigators. It’s bribing someone to not testify. But what Giuliani said is that all this stuff is happening out in the open. He’s not trying to twist anyone’s arm. He’s just blowing off steam about the investigation. And what conspiracy is there in that?michael barbaroWere either of you surprised by either of these actions outlined in this letter when it comes to obstruction of justice — by Mueller declining to make a call, or by Barr being so quick to make a call?maggie habermanI was not surprised that Mueller didn’t make a call. I was surprised that Barr moved so quickly. I did not think that the collusion aspect of this letter was going to be revelatory, but I did think that the obstruction one possibly would be. And it shuts it down definitively. There is a piece of the letter that we haven’t talked about, which is that Bill Barr, the attorney general, tells Congress that Robert Mueller, the special counsel, recognized that, quote, “the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference. And that while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.” So a big piece of the thinking for Barr seems to have been that since there is not an underlying crime that was found related to the president, that obstruction is harder to prove.michael barbaroIn other words, there is a connection between these two questions. Between coordination and obstruction of justice. That if there was no coordination, if there is no original sin, then it’s hard to establish that there was obstruction of justice.maggie habermanRight. If there is no crime that was committed, it is hard to suggest that the president was trying to obstruct justice in the course of pursuing evidence about that crime. And that is an argument that Mike and I also heard the president’s lawyers say repeatedly, which was that there couldn’t be obstruction of justice because there’s nothing to obstruct.michael barbaroDoes that seem like universally sound legal logic? That you can’t commit a crime in obstructing investigations into something that wasn’t a crime? Because it certainly feels like if someone’s investigating me, and I decide to stop the investigation in violation of the law, that that could be itself a violation of a law, separate and apart from whether or not what I was being investigated for in the first place was a crime? I mean, are those two things necessarily connected?michael schmidtI think there’s two reasons why the Justice Department would not want to bring a case like this. The first is that if there’s not an underlying crime, then do you really want to bring an obstruction case? Do you really want to go to court to try and convince a jury that someone took actions where there was nothing to cover up? I think that’s a tough case to make. The second thing is that while the president huffed and puffed a lot about this investigation, I’m not sure how much real damage it did to it. Bob Mueller was able to pursue his inquiry. He was not fired. They finished what they had. They weren’t impeded by the Justice Department. So what was the real damage? If the president was obstructing, how did he really hurt the investigation? Give me the damage report. And I don’t think at the end of the day there was that much that actually hurt Mueller’s team’s ability to do their job. It may have been loud, it may have been annoying, it may have been dispiriting. But I think they were able to pursue what they needed to.maggie habermanI think, also, there’s a third point, which is that I think that Bob Mueller was very mindful that he was dealing with the presidency and the damage that an ongoing case like this, if it was iffy, and not locked solid, not completely nailed down, could cause not just the office of the presidency, but the kind of trauma that brings to a country.michael barbaroI’m very struck as we’re talking, Maggie and Mike, that, at least according to this letter, this is exactly what we have had in front of us all along.maggie habermanUnless the report has a lot of information that we’re not seeing, what we saw play out publicly is what was there. The attorney general made clear that this investigation was ending without a recommendation of more indictments. That includes sealed indictments. This is what we’re getting. It will now move to Capitol Hill, and Democrats will seek to get as much material as they can. But in terms of the part the president was really concerned about in terms of Mueller, that is over.michael barbaroSo let’s talk about what Congress is going to do now. Congressional leaders have just received this letter. Mike, you have told us in the past that Democrats were going to be very cautious in how they proceeded under any circumstances. And that if Mueller didn’t find the sort of thing that would force even Republicans in Congress to acknowledge that the president had violated the law, impeachment proceedings would be very unlikely. And it seems like this letter is not at all what Democrats would have needed to move forward in that sort of way.michael schmidtI think it takes a lot of wind out of their sails. They basically have full-blown investigations into obstruction and collusion going on. And here, you have Mueller, someone who has far better tools than they will ever have to investigate, coming out and clearing the president on the Russia issue and giving a mixed message on obstruction that allows Barr to clear him there. It gives the Republicans a very good argument to say, why are you guys continuing to look at these issues? Why are you continuing to rummage around in the president’s life when we’ve received clarity on this from the Justice Department? So I think it hurts them.maggie habermanI think that you’re going to see Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, proceed carefully. As of late evening Sunday, she still had not said anything about how she was going to handle this. And I think that you are going to see a lot of Republicans reminding Democrats that they were holding Robert Mueller up as this avatar of credibility when the investigation was going on, so that it is hard to now say, we need to know more, because we need to make a determination that he couldn’t. That will almost inevitably look very political.michael schmidtSo the Democrats are going to ask for everything that Mueller had in the report. And it’s clear from the letter that a lot of obstruction of justice issues were looked at and detailed and analyzed. And the question is that if the Democrats get their hands on that, how damaging is the obstruction stuff? And is it strong enough to give Democrats more of an oomph on their obstruction investigation?michael barbaroIs it both of your understandings that Congress will get a full copy of the Mueller report that they can then examine for these answers?maggie habermanI don’t think that’s been resolved yet.michael schmidtThat’s the big question.michael barbaroMaggie, after months of the president calling the Mueller investigation a witch hunt or worse, would it be better now for him to lean into that description or turn around and say, you know, this investigation is the gold star of investigations, and it says I’m in the clear?maggie habermanThere are a lot of people in the White House who are encouraging the president to turn and say, this was a highly respected prosecutor who just said there was no collusion. And I hope we can all accept this and move on, and try to strike a healing note. It is the president’s political instinct to burrow into his base and say, this was a witch hunt, this was a hoax. And that is what I have heard a number of his advisers say publicly in the last few hours. It’s what his son said in a statement that he gave me. I think they are going to go full-on by telling people this was a waste of two years. This was an effort to undo an electoral result in 2016, and don’t let this happen again.michael barbaroAnd I wonder if you can explain for listeners why it wasn’t what you just said the president might call it — a waste of two years. A waste of everyone’s time and an effort to politically undermine him.maggie habermanIt might have had the effect of undermining him. That might have been one of the impacts. But we do know, based on numerous assessments from the intelligence community, that Russians did seek to interfere in the 2016 election. We do know that there were many contacts between Russians and people involved in the Trump campaign. So trying to find out what was at the heart of that, one would think, was not a waste of time. And now there is an answer. There is a world in which the president could say, this gave me a clean bill of health, and now you can trust me going forward.michael barbaroMike, I want to ask you the same question. What is your explanation for why this investigation was not a waste of time?michael schmidtWell, there were legitimate issues and questions that had to be answered. And along the way, the president took action after action that only made the perception that he did something wrong worse. He fired the F.B.I. director. He asked the F.B.I. director to end an investigation into whether his former national security adviser was talking improperly to the Russian ambassador. He said things publicly about the investigation time and time again to demonize the investigators. He criticized his own attorney general, who recused himself from the Russia investigation. He called Mueller’s team a bunch of angry Democrats. He made the perception worse. And there were things that he did that walked up to the line of obstruction and had to be looked at, that had to be sorted through. Whether it was to clear the president and say, hey, look, he did nothing wrong, for his sake, or to give the public some confidence that the president of the United States was not a Russian agent.michael barbaroSo among the questions that had to be answered in an investigation into Russian interference in our election, regardless of the answer, was what was the president’s role in this? And it happens to be that the answer was seemingly nothing illegal. But that answer had to be unearthed.michael schmidtA significant portion of the country thought that the president of the United States either wittingly or unwittingly had worked with a foreign adversary to influence the election. That was something that had to be looked into.michael barbaroAnd because he didn’t do that, Bill Barr also believes he did not obstruct this investigation.michael schmidtThere was nothing to obstruct.maggie habermanAt least that’s what they found.michael barbaroNo one asked me, but —maggie habermanMichael, what do you think?michael barbaroI think that Russia could never have fathomed just how cosmically disruptive their efforts to influence the election would be.maggie habermanI think they succeeded beyond their wildest dreams, yes.michael schmidtLook at how distracted we’ve been as a country because of this for the past two years. Think about all the other issues that we could have been talking about or looking at. This was an enormous, enormous distraction for the country.maggie habermanAnd for Donald Trump.michael barbaroMaggie, Mike, thank you very much.maggie habermanThank you.michael schmidtThanks for having us.archived recording (donald trump)So after a long look, after a long investigation, after so many people have been so badly hurt, after not looking at the other side, where a lot of bad things happened, a lot of horrible things happened, a lot of very bad things happened for our country, it was just announced there was no collusion with Russia. The most ridiculous thing I’ve ever heard —michael barbaroOn Sunday afternoon, on his way back to Washington from his home in Florida, President Trump addressed the major findings of the Mueller report.archived recording (donald trump)There was no obstruction, and none whatsoever. And it was a complete and total exoneration. It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this for — before I even got elected, it began. And it began illegally. And hopefully, somebody is going to look at the other side. This was an illegal takedown that failed. And hopefully, somebody is going to be looking at the other side. So it’s complete —michael barbaroNot long after, the Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative Jerry Nadler of New York, disputed the president’s characterization of the Mueller report during a news conference in New York.archived recording (jerry nadler)Earlier today, I received a four-page letter from Attorney General Barr outlining his summary of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report while making a few questionable legal arguments of his own. I take from this letter three points. First, President Trump is wrong. This report does not amount to a so-called “total exoneration.”michael barbaroNadler seemed to accept Mueller’s conclusion that the president did not coordinate with Russia, but seized on less definitive statements made by Mueller and Barr about whether the president obstructed justice.archived recording (jerry nadler)The attorney general’s comments make it clear that Congress must step in to get the truth and provide full transparency to the American people. The president has not been exonerated by the special counsel. Yet the attorney general has decided not to go further or, apparently, to share those findings with the public. We cannot simply rely on what may be a hasty partisan interpretation of the facts.michael barbaroThat’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.Hours later, Mr. Barr delivered his letter describing the special counsel’s findings to Congress. But congressional Democrats have demanded more, and the letter could be just the beginning of a lengthy constitutional battle between Congress and the Justice Department about whether Mr. Mueller’s full report will be made public. Democrats have also called for the attorney general to turn over all of the special counsel’s investigative files.Mr. Barr’s letter said that his “goal and intent” was to release as much of the Mueller report as possible, but warned that some of the report was based on grand jury material that “by law cannot be made public.” Mr. Barr planned at a later date to send lawmakers the detailed summary of Mr. Mueller’s full report that the attorney general is required under law to deliver to Capitol Hill.Lawmakers on Sunday also criticized Mr. Barr’s conclusion that the president had not obstructed justice — which requires making a determination about whether Mr. Trump had “corrupt intent” when he took steps to impede the investigation at different turns — when the special counsel’s team never questioned the president in person. After months of debate over a potential interview, Mr. Mueller’s investigators agreed to accept written answers from the president.Mr. Barr’s letter said that the Mueller report identified no actions that, in his and Mr. Rosenstein’s minds, “constitute obstructive conduct, had a nexus to a pending or contemplated proceeding, and were done with corrupt intent.” Mr. Barr did not consult Mr. Mueller in writing his letter to leaders of the congressional judiciary committees, a Justice Department official said on Sunday.Shortly after the release of the Mueller findings, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said on Twitter that he planned to call Mr. Barr to testify about what he said were “very concerning discrepancies and final decision making at the Justice Department.”The Russia investigation has buffeted the White House from the earliest days of the Trump administration, with many current and former aides to Mr. Trump brought for questioning to the special counsel’s warren of offices in a plain office building in downtown Washington. F.B.I. agents fanned out across the nation and traveled to numerous foreign countries. Members of Mr. Mueller’s team questioned some witnesses at airports after they landed in the United States.Ultimately, a half-dozen former Trump aides were indicted or convicted of crimes, most for conspiracy or lying to investigators. Twenty-five Russian intelligence operatives and experts in social media manipulation were charged last year in two extraordinarily detailed indictments released by the special counsel. The inquiry concluded without charging any Americans for conspiring with the Russian campaign.More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation.The findings could bring closure for some who have obsessed over the myriad threads of a byzantine investigation. A cottage industry of Mueller watchers has spent months on social media and cable news debating thorny constitutional issues, spinning conspiracy theories and amassing encyclopedic details about once obscure figures — Carter Page, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, George Papadopoulos and others.How many minds it changes is another matter. Opinions have hardened over time, with many Americans already convinced they knew the answers before Mr. Mueller submitted his conclusions. Some believe that the special counsel’s previous indictments, twinned with voluminous news reporting, have already shown a conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin. Some believe that the investigation is, as Mr. Trump has long described it, a “witch hunt.”To prove a conspiracy, former prosecutors said, Mr. Mueller’s team would have had to show that Mr. Trump or one or more of his associates agreed that Russia should interfere in the election through computer espionage, illegal use of social media or other criminal means.Campaign officials at times were eager to accept benefits from Russia’s covert operation. “I love it,” Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, responded when an intermediary said a Russian emissary wanted to give the campaign damaging information on Hillary Clinton at a Trump Tower meeting in June 2016.Mr. Trump himself urged Russia to try to unearth deleted emails from a private server Mrs. Clinton had used when she was secretary of state.And Roger J. Stone, Jr., the president’s longtime friend, tried to enlist intermediaries to connect with WikiLeaks, Russia’s chosen depository for Democratic emails stolen by Russian hackers.But absent an agreement with the Russian government to break the law, former Justice Department officials said, none of that made Mr. Trump or his associates into co-conspirators with the Kremlin.“There is a big difference between saying, ‘Gosh, I think WikiLeaks has the ability to hack into the Democratic National Committee computers’ and saying ‘We would like them to dump those out in the public, so let’s call them up and ask them to do that,’” said Mary McCord, a former top-ranking national security official at the Justice Department.The release of Mr. Mueller’s findings could force a decision by Democrats on a simmering issue they have said would wait until the investigation’s end: whether to begin impeachment proceedings against the president. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has said it would not be “worth it” to try to impeach Mr. Trump, but suggested she could change her mind if an overwhelming bipartisan consensus emerged.For months, the president and his lawyers have waged as much of a public relations campaign as a legal one — trying to discredit the Mueller investigation to keep public opinion from swaying lawmakers to move against Mr. Trump.Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing.Mr. Mueller’s work has proceeded in the face of blistering attacks by Mr. Trump and his allies, who painted the investigation as part of a relentless campaign by the “deep state” to reverse the results of the 2016 election.He was given a wide mandate — to investigate not only Russian election interference but also “any matters that may arise directly from that investigation.” Mr. Mueller has farmed out multiple aspects of his inquiry to several United States attorneys’ offices, and those investigations continue.Mr. Barr’s letter said that the special counsel’s office employed 19 lawyers and was assisted by about 40 F.B.I. agents, intelligence analysts, forensic accountants and other staff. About 500 witnesses were interviewed, and 13 foreign governments were asked to turn over evidence.Over all, the special counsel’s office issued more than 2,800 subpoenas, executed nearly 500 search warrants and obtained more than 230 orders for communications records.The Justice Department regulations governing the Mueller inquiry only required the special counsel to give a succinct, confidential report to the attorney general explaining his decisions to either seek — or decline to seek — further criminal charges. Mr. Mueller operated under tighter restrictions than similar past inquiries, notably the investigation of President Bill Clinton by Ken Starr, who ended up delivering a 445-page report in 1998 that contained lascivious details about an affair the president had with a White House intern.Mr. Mueller will not recommend new indictments, ending speculation that he might charge some of Mr. Trump’s aides in the future. The Justice Department’s general practice is not to identify the targets of its investigations if prosecutors decide not to bring charges, so as not to tarnish their reputations. Mr. Rosenstein emphasized this point in a speech last month.“It’s important,” Mr. Rosenstein said, “for government officials to refrain from making allegations of wrongdoing when they’re not backed by charges that we are prepared to prove in court.”Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe campaign and the Kremlin had an overarching deal: help beat Hillary Clinton for a new pro-Russian foreign policy. By Max FrankelMr. Frankel was the executive editor of The Times from 1986 to 1994.Collusion — or a lack of it — turns out to have been the rhetorical trap that ensnared President Trump’s pursuers. There was no need for detailed electoral collusion between the Trump campaign and Vladimir Putin’s oligarchy because they had an overarching deal: the quid of help in the campaign against Hillary Clinton for the quo of a new pro-Russian foreign policy, starting with relief from the Obama administration’s burdensome economic sanctions. The Trumpites knew about the quid and held out the prospect of the quo.Run down the known facts about the communications between Russians and the Trump campaign and their deal reveals itself. Perhaps, somewhere along the line, Russians also reminded the Trump family of their helpful cooperation with his past financial ventures. Perhaps, also, they articulated their resentment of Mrs. Clinton for her challenge as secretary of state to the legitimacy of Mr. Putin’s own election. But no such speculation is needed to perceive the obvious bargain reached during the campaign of 2016.Early on, emissaries of the Russian oligarchs sent word of their readiness to help embarrass and undermine the Clinton candidacy. And in June 2016, the Russians lured the Trumpites to a meeting in Trump Tower with a promise of “dirt” against Mrs. Clinton only to use the meeting to harp on their hunger for sanctions relief. As the Trump family openly acknowledged, the Russians spoke at that meeting of a desire to again allow Americans to adopt Russian children. Since the adoptions were halted to retaliate against the American sanctions, it required no dictionary to interpret the oligarchs’ meaning: “dirt” for sanctions relief.That relief and a warm new relationship with Russia were then freely discussed in public and in private. There was even an effort to concoct a grand diplomatic bargain by which the Russians would be allowed to legalize their seizure of the Ukrainian Crimea. Michael Cohen and other Trump advisers promoted the idea of letting the Russians “lease” the seized territory for up to 100 years so as to sanitize the reciprocal lifting of the sanctions that Mr. Obama had imposed to punish the land grab.Sanction relief seems to have been discussed in some of the other secret contacts between Trump operatives and Russians. We know that Michael Flynn lied to the F.B.I. when he denied discussing sanction relief with the Russian ambassador.As Robert Mueller surely discovered in tracking down these dealings, the promise of policy changes was not in itself illegal. Candidates routinely promise policy changes, often with foreign governments. (Move the embassy in Israel, anyone?)So why all the secrecy and lying? Candidate Trump made no secret of his intention to forge a warm relationship with the Kremlin. But pledges of sanctions relief and other specific moves while not yet in office were unseemly at best and clearly offensive to the American convention that we have only one president at a time. Mr. Flynn especially had to lie because though already in transition to power he was directly undermining Mr. Obama’s still active and punitive diplomacy against Mr. Putin.Mr. Flynn, remember, was deemed so helpful to the Mueller investigation that the special counsel pleaded to have him spared any time in jail. He was “colluding” all right, but with legal policy promises, not apparently with election sabotage. And true to the campaign minuet, despite great resistance in Congress, President Trump has watered down the sanctions and otherwise appeased Russian interests, even at the expense of America’s allies. Call it the art of the deal.Max Frankel was the executive editor of The Times from 1986 to 1994.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe president’s announcement on the Golan Heights will finally free us from the “land for peace” formula that none of us believe in anyway. By Shmuel RosnerContributing Opinion WriterTEL AVIV — On Thursday evening here in Israel, after President Trump announced that “it is time for the United States to fully recognize Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights” and our prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, thanked the president for his “historic” decision, I wanted to talk to someone I trusted on the issue, someone with perspective. So I contacted Zvi Hauser.Mr. Hauser was a cabinet secretary under Mr. Netanyahu and is running for the Knesset on behalf of the Kahol Lavan Party, which wants to unseat the prime minister in the April 9 general election. He is also a longtime proponent of America’s recognition of Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights.With less than three weeks until Election Day, Mr. Hauser keeps his priorities straight. He knows that Mr. Netanyahu will get credit from the public for the United States’ recognition of Israel’s control of the Golan — something many Israelis have wanted for a long time. He understands that the president intervened to boost Mr. Netanyahu’s chances in a tight race. Still, Mr. Hauser was happy. He called the move “a turning point in the annals of the Middle East” and said he wanted to “thank President Trump and Prime Minister Netanyahu.”Mr. Hauser was not alone among Mr. Netanyahu’s rivals in praising Mr. Trump’s decision. Across the Israeli political spectrum (with some obvious exceptions), politicians are supportive of America recognizing Israel’s control of the Golan Heights.Indeed, Mr. Trump’s statement on Thursday was a major development. It is the final nail in the coffin of the 1967 line — the armistice line that separated Israel from its neighbors before the Six Days War. More than 50 years since this line was crossed by the Israeli military, we can finally kiss it goodbye.The part of the Golan Heights controlled by Israel is a 500-square-mile territory wedged between northeast Israel and southwest Syria. Syria ruled this area until 1967. Then Israel occupied it. Since then, there have been about 50 years of negotiations, with Syria demanding the territory back and Israel demanding a peace agreement.Many Israelis, though, knew that it never should — or would — be returned to Syria. The area was too important strategically and historically. In 1981, the Knesset passed a law essentially annexing the territory. And yet, negotiations continued, with successive prime ministers making overtures to the Syrians, until the Syrian civil war — and the takeover of much of Syria by Iran and its proxies — put an end to the charade.Israel had no choice but to give up on the idea of withdrawing from the Golan Heights. But this reality involves a complete overhaul of the way the international community thinks not just about the Golan Heights but also about all the lands Israel occupied in 1967. The “land for peace” formulation for the past five decades has been a basis of all peace processes between Israel and Egypt, Syria and the Palestinians. Mr. Trump seems to have accepted the position of Israel’s government and given up on the idea that Israel has to withdraw to a decades-old line to get peace.Withdrawal worked for Israel once, in 1979, when it signed a peace agreement with Egypt and left the Sinai Peninsula, which was also occupied in 1967. But that set a problematic precedent. President Anwar Sadat of Egypt insisted that Israel hand back the entire peninsula to the last inch. Israel decided that the reward was worth the price, as a major Arab country agreed to break with other Arab states and accept Israel’s legitimacy. But there was a hidden, unanticipated cost: Israel’s adversaries, in future negotiations, would demand the same kind of compensation. The 1967 line — what Israel controlled before the war — became the starting point for all Arab countries, including Syria. It became a sacred formula, worshiped by the international community.What Mr. Trump is doing extends far beyond the ability of Israel to control the Golan Heights, to settle it and invest in it. The American president is setting the clock back to before the peace deal with Egypt, to a time when Israel could argue that the reward for peace is peace — not land.Syria, of course, is unlikely to accept this. At least not in the short term. But maybe someday, a Syrian leader will come along who doesn’t entertain the thought that Israel might agree to return to the pre-1967 line and who will accept a different formula for achieving peace.In the meantime, the Golan Heights news is another clarifying moment in Israel’s election. Yes, there is a fierce fight between Mr. Netanyahu and his opponents. Yes, the stakes seem at times high. But Israelis agree on much more than many outside observers imagine. And one of the things they largely agree on is that the 1967 line is no longer relevant.Mr. Hauser started fighting for recognition of Israel’s sovereignty in the territory when he was an ally of Mr. Netanyahu. Now he is fighting for the same thing as the prime minister’s opponent. There is nothing unnatural or strange about this. On days like these, he told me, “politics is dwarfed amid the call of history.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Shmuel Rosner is the political editor at The Jewish Journal, a senior fellow at the Jewish People Policy Institute and a contributing opinion writer.  @rosnersdomain Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byChina can pay him off; places with rule of law can’t.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistThere’s been some good news on global trade lately: A full-scale U.S.-China trade war appears to be on hold, and may be avoided altogether.The bad news is that if we do make a trade deal with China, it will basically be because the Chinese are offering Donald Trump a personal political payoff. At the same time, a much more dangerous trade conflict with Europe is looming. And the Europeans, who still have this peculiar thing called rule of law, can’t bribe their way to trade peace.The background: Last year the Trump administration imposed tariffs on a wide range of Chinese products, covering more than half of China’s exports to the United States. But that might have been only the beginning: Trump had threatened to impose much higher tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese exports starting this Friday.What was the motivation for these tariffs? Remarkably, there doesn’t seem to be any strong constituency demanding protectionism; if anything, major industries have been lobbying against Trump’s trade moves, and the stock market clearly dislikes trade conflict, going down when tensions rise and recovering when they ease.So trade conflict is essentially Trump’s personal vendetta — one that he is able to pursue because U.S. international trade law gives the president enormous discretion to impose tariffs on a variety of grounds. Predicting trade policy is therefore about figuring out what’s going on in one man’s mind.Now, there are real reasons for the U.S. to be angry at China, and demand policy changes. Above all, China notoriously violates the spirit of international trade rules, de facto restricting foreign companies’ access to its market unless they hand over valuable technology. So you could make a case for U.S. pressure on China — coordinated with other advanced economies! — to stop that practice.But there has been little evidence that Trump is interested in dealing with the real China problem. I was at a trade policy conference over the weekend where experts were asked what Trump really wants; the most popular answer was “tweetable deliveries.”Sure enough, Trump has been crowing about what he portrays as big Chinese concessions, which all seem to involve China’s government ordering companies to buy U.S. agricultural products. In particular, the postponement of the trade war came after a Chinese pledge to buy 10 million tons of soybeans. This will please farmers, although it’s far from clear that it will even make up for the losses they’ve suffered from previous Trump actions.The point, however, is that what China is offering doesn’t at all get at the real U.S. national interests at stake. All it does is give Trump something to tweet about.Oh, and by the way: China’s biggest bank, which happens to be majority-owned by the Chinese government, currently occupies three whole floors in the Trump Tower in Manhattan. It has been planning to reduce its space; it will be interesting to see what happens to that plan now.Meanwhile, the U.S. Commerce Department has prepared a report on imports of European automobiles that, according to the German press, concludes that these imports pose a threat to national security. If this sounds ridiculous, that’s because it is. Indeed, while the Europeans aren’t angels, they do abide by global rules, and it’s hard to accuse them of any major trade sins. Yes, they do have 10 percent tariffs on U.S. cars — but we impose 25 percent tariffs on their light trucks, which makes us more than even.But a department headed by perhaps the most corrupt commerce secretary in history will, of course, conclude whatever Trump wants it to conclude. And this report gives the president the legal authority to get us into a trade war with the European Union.If it happens, this trade war will be immensely damaging. The E.U. is America’s biggest export market, directly accounting for around 2.6 million jobs. Moreover, our economies are very much intermeshed — which is why even the U.S. auto industry is horrified at the possibility that Trump will impose tariffs on cars.But here’s the thing: Unlike the Chinese government, the E.U. can’t order private companies to make splashy purchases of U.S. goods. And it certainly can’t steer business to Trump Organization properties. As a result, the chances of spiraling trade conflict remain high.The point is that when it comes to dealing with Trump and his team, autocracies have an advantage over democracies that follow the rule of law. And trade disputes are arguably the least of it. Think about the push by financially conflicted Trump advisers to sell nuclear technology to the Bone Saw Kingdom, otherwise known as Saudi Arabia. Or think of the influence golf-playing expats seem to be having over Venezuela policy.So while stock markets are happy about the prospects for trade peace with China, the broader picture is deeply disturbing. If we do manage to limit the damage from this confrontation, it will be for the wrong reasons. And the warped motivations governing U.S. foreign policy may yet have deeply destructive consequences, with a trade war far from being the scariest possibility.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe Commies are coming for your pickup trucks.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistIn 1961, America faced what conservatives considered a mortal threat: calls for a national health insurance program covering senior citizens. In an attempt to avert this awful fate, the American Medical Association launched what it called Operation Coffee Cup, a pioneering attempt at viral marketing.Here’s how it worked: Doctors’ wives (hey, it was 1961) were asked to invite their friends over and play them a recording in which Ronald Reagan explained that socialized medicine would destroy American freedom. The housewives, in turn, were supposed to write letters to Congress denouncing the menace of Medicare.Obviously the strategy didn’t work; Medicare not only came into existence, but it became so popular that these days Republicans routinely (and falsely) accuse Democrats of planning to cut the program’s funding. But the strategy — claiming that any attempt to strengthen the social safety net or limit inequality will put us on a slippery slope to totalitarianism — endures.And so it was that Donald Trump, in his State of the Union address, briefly turned from his usual warnings about scary brown people to warnings about the threat from socialism.What do Trump’s people, or conservatives in general, mean by “socialism”? The answer is, it depends.Sometimes it means any kind of economic liberalism. Thus after the SOTU, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, lauded the Trump economy and declared that “we’re not going back to socialism” — i.e., apparently America itself was a socialist hellhole as recently as 2016. Who knew?Other times, however, it means Soviet-style central planning, or Venezuela-style nationalization of industry, never mind the reality that there is essentially nobody in American political life who advocates such things.The trick — and “trick” is the right word — involves shuttling between these utterly different meanings, and hoping that people don’t notice. You say you want free college tuition? Think of all the people who died in the Ukraine famine! And no, this isn’t a caricature: Read the strange, smarmy report on socialism that Trump’s economists released last fall; that’s pretty much how its argument goes.So let’s talk about what’s really on the table.Some progressive U.S. politicians now describe themselves as socialists, and a significant number of voters, including a majority of voters under 30, say they approve of socialism. But neither the politicians nor the voters are clamoring for government seizure of the means of production. Instead, they’ve taken on board conservative rhetoric that describes anything that tempers the excesses of a market economy as socialism, and in effect said, “Well, in that case I’m a socialist.”What Americans who support “socialism” actually want is what the rest of the world calls social democracy: A market economy, but with extreme hardship limited by a strong social safety net and extreme inequality limited by progressive taxation. They want us to look like Denmark or Norway, not Venezuela.And in case you haven’t been there, the Nordic countries are not, in fact, hellholes. They have somewhat lower G.D.P. per capita than we do, but that’s largely because they take more vacations. Compared with America, they have higher life expectancy, much less poverty and significantly higher overall life satisfaction. Oh, and they have high levels of entrepreneurship — because people are more willing to take the risk of starting a business when they know that they won’t lose their health care or plunge into abject poverty if they fail.Trump’s economists clearly had a hard time fitting the reality of Nordic societies into their anti-socialist manifesto. In some places they say that the Nordics aren’t really socialist; in others they try desperately to show that despite appearances, Danes and Swedes are suffering — for example, it’s expensive for them to operate a pickup truck. I am not making this up.What about the slippery slope from liberalism to totalitarianism? There’s absolutely no evidence that it exists. Medicare didn’t destroy freedom. Stalinist Russia and Maoist China didn’t evolve out of social democracies. Venezuela was a corrupt petrostate long before Hugo Chávez came along. If there’s a road to serfdom, I can’t think of any nation that took it.So scaremongering over socialism is both silly and dishonest. But will it be politically effective?Probably not. After all, voters overwhelmingly support most of the policies proposed by American “socialists,” including higher taxes on the wealthy and making Medicare available to everyone (although they don’t support plans that would force people to give up private insurance — a warning to Democrats not to make single-payer purity a litmus test).On the other hand, we should never discount the power of dishonesty. Right-wing media will portray whomever the Democrats nominate for president as the second coming of Leon Trotsky, and millions of people will believe them. Let’s just hope that the rest of the media report the clean little secret of American socialism, which is that it isn’t radical at all.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael TackettWASHINGTON — President Trump said on Thursday that the federal government would continue to fund the Special Olympics, reversing his administration’s decision to cut the allocated money, which his education secretary, Betsy DeVos, had been defending on Capitol Hill only hours earlier.“The Special Olympics will be funded. I just told my people,” Mr. Trump said to reporters before leaving for a campaign-style rally in Michigan. The president said he had long supported the organization.His statement was an abrupt pivot from the stance offered by others in his administration. Ms. DeVos defended the trims in a Senate budget hearing not long before the president undercut her position.The Special Olympics is one of thousands of line-item programs that were proposed to be cut or zeroed out in the president’s fiscal 2020 budget — and that Congress had no intention of cutting. Most presidential budgets are routinely declared dead on arrival by members of Congress, the branch of government that appropriates money. But Mr. Trump’s budgets have been ignored more than most.The Special Olympics proposal did not appear serious from the start. The day before it was released, the White House announced that Vice President Mike Pence’s wife, Karen Pence, would lead the American delegation to the games.That did not stop the friction between Ms. DeVos, congressional Democrats and several Republicans.Ms. DeVos had said that the program, which received an appropriation of about $17.5 million, did good work but that in a time of difficult budget decisions, hard choices had to be made.Matt Wolking, deputy communications director of Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign, said Thursday on Twitter that “the Special Olympics, by the way, is a private charity with $61.3 million in net assets that gets only 10% of its funding from taxpayers and enjoyed a $1.8 million surplus in FY2016.” He also said, “I’m sure that Democrats who see abortion as the cure for Down syndrome and other disabilities are sincerely concerned about kids having a chance to be in the Special Olympics.”That sentiment prevailed for about four hours until Mr. Trump quickly reversed course.“I want to fund the Special Olympics, and I just authorized a funding of the Special Olympics,” Mr. Trump said. “I’ve been to the Special Olympics. I think it’s incredible, and I just authorized a funding. I heard about it this morning. I have overridden my people. We’re funding the Special Olympics.”Ms. DeVos also noted that she had long been a supporter of the Special Olympics. A billionaire, she received approval to give away her $199,700 government salary last year, and part of it went to the organization.“I love its work,” she said in a statement, “and I have personally supported its mission.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter Baker and Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — President Trump and his Republican allies went on the offensive on Monday, vowing to pursue and even punish those responsible for the Russia investigation now that the special counsel has wrapped up without implicating him or his campaign in a criminal conspiracy to influence the 2016 election.Mr. Trump, grim faced and simmering with anger, denounced adversaries who have pounded him for two years over Russian election interference, calling them “treasonous” people who are guilty of “evil” deeds and should be investigated themselves. “Those people will certainly be looked at,” he said.On Capitol Hill, the Republican chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee announced he would do just that while also calling for a new special counsel to look at the origins of the last one. White House officials and Republican lawmakers demanded the resignation of a Democratic committee chairman investigating the Russia matter, and Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign lobbied television networks to blackball Democrats who advanced the collusion theory.The assertive posture indicated that despite initial calls by Republican leaders to move on after the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, the president and his supporters were intent on turning the tables on his foes. While Democrats saw the actions as revenge, Mr. Trump’s defenders said they wanted accountability for a “witch hunt” that has consumed half of his term.“There are a lot of people out there that have done some very, very evil things, very bad things, I would say some treasonous things against our country,” Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House. “I’ve been looking at them for a long time,” he added, “and I’m saying why haven’t they been looked at? They lied to Congress, many of them, you know who they are. They’ve done so many evil things.”The approach, if it lasts, contrasts with those of other presidents who survived major scandals. After the Iran-contra affair, President Ronald Reagan happily dropped the subject and focused on arms control talks with the Soviet Union and other issues. After being acquitted at his Senate impeachment trial, President Bill Clinton was just as eager to move on to Social Security and other initiatives.But Mr. Trump and his allies on Monday sought to put his adversaries on the defensive and cement the view that Mr. Mueller’s report represents complete vindication. Mr. Mueller found no conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia, but he pointedly declined to exonerate the president on obstruction of justice, according to a Justice Department letter to lawmakers on Sunday.Mr. Mueller’s report has yet to be released, so it remains unknown whether it includes damning new details that question the actions of Mr. Trump or his associates, even if they do not represent a crime. Six House Democratic committee chairmen sent a letter on Monday to Attorney General William P. Barr demanding he provide them the full report by next Tuesday.Mr. Trump said on Monday that releasing the report “wouldn’t bother me at all,” but Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, later in the day blocked a nonbinding resolution — already passed unanimously by the House — calling for the report to be made public, arguing that Mr. Barr should decide.Democrats struggled to find a path ahead, with some urging the party to turn its attention to policy differences with Mr. Trump. Speaker Nancy Pelosi has credited such a strategy with fueling last year’s midterm election victories and said she opposed trying to impeach the president “unless there’s something so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan.” She plans to unveil a health care plan on Tuesday.“The report vindicates Nancy Pelosi’s judgment of proceeding with deliberateness and caution and focusing on issues that we can deliver for the American people,” said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California and a leading liberal voice in the House.Republicans faced their own choice. After two years shadowed by Mr. Mueller, Mr. Trump has the opportunity to reset his presidency, but as he strode with new confidence into a post-Mueller world, he appeared more intent on payback.Stephen K. Bannon, his former chief strategist, predicted that Mr. Trump “is going to go full animal” now that Mr. Mueller has wrapped up. The president, Mr. Bannon told Yahoo News, will “come off the chains” and use the findings to “bludgeon” his opposition.Others close to the White House urged the president not to do that but instead focus on his own agenda. “The president has a unique historical opportunity, while in his re-election cycle, to reconnect to millions of Americans who have assumed he was guilty of serious wrongdoing, due to the unrelenting irresponsible media coverage of fake collusion,” said Matt Schlapp, the chairman of the American Conservative Union.Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who golfed with Mr. Trump in Florida last weekend, agreed. “My advice to the president, for whatever it’s worth, is that you are probably stronger today than you have been at any time in your presidency,” he said, adding, “And if I were you, Mr. President, I would focus on what’s next for the country.”Instead, Mr. Graham said, the president should leave it to him to go after the authors of the Russia investigation. As chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Mr. Graham announced that he would investigate anti-Trump bias at the F.B.I. and Justice Department and called on Mr. Barr to appoint a second special counsel to study the same issues.“By any reasonable standard, Mr. Mueller fully investigated the Trump campaign,” he said. “You cannot say that about the other side of the story.”Mr. Trump’s lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, echoed that, saying that the origin of the Russia investigation should be examined. “Who made it up?” he said on Fox News. “It had to come from somewhere. It didn’t just come out of thin air. I want to know who did it, who paid for it, who fueled it.”Other Republicans piled on Democrats who have vocally asserted wrongdoing between the Trump campaign and Russia, taking aim specifically at Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the outspoken chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.“Has anyone heard from slimy Adam #fullofschiff Schiff today?” Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, wrote on Twitter. “I mean it must be embarrassing to have have spent the last 2 years as the leader of the tinfoil hat brigade and have it all come crashing down so quick.”Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, and Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, called on Mr. Schiff to resign as chairman.“Schiff has met the standard that he has imposed on other members of Congress of when they should step back from their positions,” Mr. McCarthy told Politico. “He has exceeded that standard, and there is no question he should step down from the intel chairmanship.”The president’s re-election campaign sent a memo to television producers naming Mr. Schiff and several other Democrats that it argued had “made outlandish, false claims” and should therefore be reconsidered before being booked again.The National Republican Congressional Committee moved to use the special counsel’s conclusions against vulnerable Democrats who had accused Mr. Trump of colluding with Russia. The committee reached back for a July 2017 tweet from Representative Joe Cunningham of South Carolina, who won one of the most Republican seats now held by a Democrat.“Now it’s time for Cunningham to put his big boy pants on and apologize to President Trump and his constituents for peddling dangerous conspiracy theories that divided the country,” the committee said in a statement.As it happened, the one person Mr. Trump made a point of not going after on Monday was Mr. Mueller, who has been on the receiving end of scalding presidential Twitter blasts for more than a year. Asked by a reporter if Mr. Mueller acted honorably, Mr. Trump said: “Yes, he did. Yes, he did.”Congressional Democrats were not backing off, promising to push ahead with an array of investigations into Mr. Trump, his businesses and his policies, while arguing that Mr. Mueller’s scope was relatively narrow and that without seeing all of Mr. Mueller’s evidence, there was no reason to adjust course.Senator Mazie K. Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii and a member of Mr. Graham’s committee, accused Republicans of taking a narrow-minded victory lap.“The pattern of the Republicans is very clear that they continue to play up to the president,” she said. “That is a pattern. They don’t want to look into his activities. They make excuses to him. They support everything he does and it continues.”Mr. Schiff, for his part, said he “would not be intimidated” by the Republicans and stood by his comments about public evidence of collusion. He did concede that after reading Mr. Mueller’s full report he would probably need to reorient the Intelligence Committee’s inquiry into possible foreign influence over the president.“We have a constitutional obligation to make sure that the president and the people are not compromised by a foreign power, and that’s what we intend to do,” he said.An earlier version of this article misstated a remark by the president about his critics. He said that some are guilty of “evil things,” not “evil deeds.”Annie Karni contributed reporting.Follow Peter Baker and Nicholas Fandos on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @npfandos.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byLive BriefingBy The New York Times• The investigation found that neither President Trump nor any of his aides conspired with the Russian government.• The report offered a mixed assessment on the question of obstruction of justice. “The Special Counsel states that ‘while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,’” Attorney General William P. Barr wrote. Mr. Barr said that he had concluded after reviewing the report that there was not sufficient evidence to establish that the president committed obstruction of justice.• On his way back to Washington from Florida, Mr. Trump said it was “a complete and total exoneration” and said that he hoped someone would “look at the other side.”Mr. Barr’s letter said that Mr. Mueller’s investigation did not find that the Trump campaign or anyone associated with it conspired or coordinated with Russia in its efforts to manipulate the 2016 presidential election. He quoted the following takeaway line from the special counsel report: “[T]he investigation did not establish that members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities.”Mr. Barr’s letter went on to note that “despite multiple offers from Russian-affiliated individuals to assist the Trump campaign,” the special counsel did not find evidence of “agreement — tacit or express — between the Trump campaign and the Russian government on election interference.” The letter did not use the word “collusion,” which has become the term of art for the question at the heart of the Russia investigation, though Republican lawmakers were quick to declare that there was “no collusion.”The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.[Read the attorney general’s summary of the Mueller report.]For each of the relevant actions by Mr. Trump the special counsel examined, “the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the Special Counsel views as ‘difficult issues’ of law and fact concerning whether the President’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction. The Special Counsel states that ‘while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.’”While Robert S. Mueller III did not take a position on whether Mr. Trump committed obstruction and explicitly said his report did not exonerate the president, Attorney General William P. Barr said that he and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who appointed Mr. Mueller, separately concluded that the evidence Mr. Mueller gathered “is not sufficient to establish that the president committed an obstruction-of-justice offense.”Importantly, Mr. Barr stressed that this conclusion was not based on the Justice Department’s view that the Constitution bars indicting a sitting president.“It was a complete and total exoneration,” Mr. Trump said, in brief remarks to reporters in Florida before he boarded Air Force One en route back to Washington. “It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this.”In his first public remarks, an hour after the report summary was released, Mr. Trump claimed victory on Twitter.Mr. Trump, who learned about the special counsel’s findings on Sunday, falsely said that the report exonerated him, when Mr. Barr cited the special counsel report, which specifically said: “While this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.”Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, also claimed victory for the White House: “The Special Counsel did not find any collusion and did not find any obstruction. AG Barr and DAG Rosenstein further determined there was no obstruction. The findings of the Department of Justice are a total and complete exoneration of the President of the United States.”In his brief remarks, Mr. Trump was critical of the lack of investigation into people he perceives as his opponents.“So after a long look,” Mr. Trump said. “After a long investigation, after so many people have been so badly hurt, after not looking at the other side, where a lot of bad things happened, a lot of horrible things happened, a lot of very bad things happened for our country, it was just announced there was no collusion with Russia — the most ridiculous thing I’ve ever heard.”He later added: “This was an illegal takedown that failed. And hopefully somebody’s going to be looking at the other side.”Mr. Trump did not specify who or what was on “the other side,” but he has previously suggested that senior officials at the Justice Department and the F.B.I. were working against him, as well Democrats, including his one-time political opponent Hillary Clinton.Mr. Trump also falsely said that the Russia investigation was started “illegally,” a claim he has made previously, accusing the F.B.I. of straying from its own investigative policies and opened an inquiry because of political motivations. Mr. Trump has always been especially critical of a dossier of allegations that the F.B.I. received during the 2016 campaign.In completing his investigation, the special counsel had an array of resources at his disposal. The team consisted of 19 lawyers, about 40 F.B.I. agents, analysts, forensic accountants and other staff. Since his appointment in May 2017, Mr. Mueller’s team issued more than 2,800 subpoenas, executed nearly 500 search warrants and interviewed about 500 witnesses. It also made requests to 13 foreign governments for evidence.Mr. Barr said that it was “my goal and intent” to “release as much of the special counsel’s report as I can consistent with applicable law, regulations, and department policies.” In short, that means — as expected — he has concerns about grand jury secrets and other sensitive investigative material in Mr. Mueller’s report.Democrats will not be satisfied with that answer, but in the short term they are unlikely to get access to Mr. Mueller’s evidence.More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation.Members of the president’s party quickly jumped on the Mr. Barr’s letter to insist it was time for Washington and the country to move on. Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, called on its Democratic chairman to “rethink his sprawling investigation” into obstruction of justice and abuse of power.“Russia is a bad actor with dark intentions, but there is no evidence that they compromised a presidential nominee. The special counsel’s investigation was long, thorough and conclusive: There was no collusion. There is no constitutional crisis,” Mr. Collins said. “I look forward to moving ahead and working with everyone on the Judiciary Committee to do the business of the American people.”Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, offered a similar assessment: “Good day for the rule of law. Great day for President Trump and his team. No collusion and no obstruction.”Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House minority leader from California, said “the case is closed.”“It is abundantly clear, without a shadow of a doubt, there was no collusion,” he said in a statement on Sunday.Representative Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said that Mr. Barr’s letter was hardly the end of the inquiry, noting “Special Counsel Mueller clearly and explicitly is not exonerating the President, and we must hear from AG Barr about his decision making and see all the underlying evidence for the American people to know all the facts.”Mr. Nadler also sounded a call for Mr. Mueller to turn over all of his underlying investigative documents.“There must be full transparency in what Special Counsel Mueller uncovered to not exonerate the President from wrongdoing,” Mr. Nadler said on Twitter. “DOJ owes the public more than just a brief synopsis and decision not to go any further in their work.”Mr. Nadler suggested that the Justice Department did not spend enough time considering whether the evidence presented by the special counsel was sufficient to support a charge of obstruction of justice. He said that his committee would soon be calling on Mr. Barr to testify about his findings.“Special Counsel Mueller worked for 22 months to determine the extent to which President Trump obstructed justice,” Mr. Nadler wrote in a Twitter post. “Attorney General Barr took 2 days to tell the American people that while the President is not exonerated, there will be no action by DOJ.”The two most powerful Democrats on Capitol Hill, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, said Mr. Barr’s summary “raises as many questions as it answers.” They said that given “Mr. Barr’s public record of bias against the Special Counsel’s inquiry, he is not a neutral observer and is not in a position to make objective determinations about the report.”Like many other Democrats, they called for Congress to be given access to the full report and all underlying documents.Other Democrats had a starkly different view of Mr. Barr’s summary.Representative David N. Cicilline, Democrat of Rhode Island and a member of the House Judiciary Committee, said: “The Special Counsel did not exonerate the President. In fact, according to the Attorney General’s letter, he described a pattern of evidence suggesting the President engaged in obstruction of justice. The Attorney General needs to make this evidence available to Congress immediately, along with the entirety of the Mueller report, so we can decide what steps to take next.”Senior Justice Department officials huddled at the agency’s headquarters since midmorning Sunday, examining the report that marked the conclusion of the special counsel’s investigation into Russia’s efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election and possible obstruction of justice by Mr. Trump. The inquiry was led by Mr. Mueller, who delivered his report to Mr. Barr on Friday.About an hour after his letter was delivered to lawmakers, Mr. Barr left the Justice Department.Mr. Barr wrote in his letter to Congress that there were two main Russian efforts to influence the presidential campaign in 2016. He said the first was to “conduct disinformation and social media operations in the United States designed to sow social discord.” The second element included Russian government computer hacking operations to influence the election.Mr. Barr said the special counsel also found “multiple offers from Russian-affiliated individuals to assist the Trump campaign.”He was scheduled to return to the capital at 6:45 p.m.Mr. Trump’s golf partners at his Florida course on Sunday were Senator Lindsey Graham; Trey Gowdy, the former representative; and Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff. All three men are from South Carolina.In Palm Beach, the president’s supporters were in celebration mode, and are focusing more on the Russia findings in the report than on the obstruction question. Toni Holt Kramer spoke with the president at Mar-a-Lago this weekend and described his mood while interacting with his supporters as “fantastic.” Ms. Holt Kramer, who founded the Trumpets booster group, said that she and her group would be in “full campaign mode” now that she said the president had not been found to have worked with Russia during the campaign. “He is in a phenomenal mood,” she said. “It was just like when he won the election.”The president is scheduled to make his first appearance in front of supporters on Thursday at a “Make America Great Again” rally in Grand Rapids, Mich.A previous version of this article misattributed a quote. It was Representative Doug Collins, Republican of Georgia, not Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, who said: “Russia is a bad actor with dark intentions, but there is no evidence that they compromised a presidential nominee. The special counsel’s investigation was long, thorough and conclusive: There was no collusion. There is no constitutional crisis.”Reporting was contributed by Katie Benner, Nicholas Fandos, Adam Goldman, Maggie Haberman, Annie Karni, Katie Rogers, Eileen Sullivan and Michael Tackett.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byletterA Pentagon official says there has been no effect on command guidance after the president announced his nominee to be the next chairman.To the Editor:“Trump ‘Accomplished the Military,’ He Says. But Experts Disagree” (news analysis, Feb. 10) asserts that the announcement of the nominee to be the next chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has “undermined the authority” of the current chairman, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., and “sown confusion about command guidance” throughout the military. In fact, there has been no effect on General Dunford’s ability to perform his statutory duty of providing his military advice to the secretary of defense and the president. Furthermore, the longstanding and proven process by which senior command guidance is communicated from the Office of the Secretary of Defense to the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs and military chains of command worldwide remains crystal clear and effective.Patrick S. RyderWashingtonThe writer, an Air Force colonel, is special assistant for public affairs to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byletterA Pentagon official says there has been no effect on command guidance after the president announced his nominee to be the next chairman.To the Editor:“Trump ‘Accomplished the Military,’ He Says. But Experts Disagree” (news analysis, Feb. 10) asserts that the announcement of the nominee to be the next chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has “undermined the authority” of the current chairman, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., and “sown confusion about command guidance” throughout the military. In fact, there has been no effect on General Dunford’s ability to perform his statutory duty of providing his military advice to the secretary of defense and the president. Furthermore, the longstanding and proven process by which senior command guidance is communicated from the Office of the Secretary of Defense to the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs and military chains of command worldwide remains crystal clear and effective.Patrick S. RyderWashingtonThe writer, an Air Force colonel, is special assistant for public affairs to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam Jordan and Ben ProtessPresident Trump’s family business has employed undocumented workers more broadly than it was previously believed, with multiple workers losing their jobs last month at a Trump golf club in southern New Jersey.The club in Pine Hill, N.J., known as the Trump National Golf Club Philadelphia, was the third Trump property where undocumented workers have been fired since The New York Times reported in December that the Trump club in Bedminster, N.J., for years employed immigrants who were in the country unlawfully.The president’s company terminated about a dozen undocumented workers at the Bedminster property after the article was published, as well as a dozen workers at the Trump National Golf Club Westchester, in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.People familiar with the terminations at Pine Hill said that about five workers at that property were fired or told not to report to work again, including two seasonal employees who were not scheduled to work until the spring. One of the people familiar with the matter said that many other seasonal workers expected to be told not to return in the coming weeks.The revelations about the undocumented workers has been an embarrassment for the Trump Organization, coming to light as Mr. Trump has railed against illegal immigration, blamed undocumented immigrants for crime and pledged to build a wall along the Mexican border to keep more people from entering the country unlawfully.The company has said it was duped by employees who used false identification to get their jobs. But some of the workers in Bedminster told The Times they were kept on the payroll despite the fact that management was aware of the false documents.A spokesperson for the company declined to comment on Friday.The workers at the Pine Hill property said their terminations, which occurred in January, came abruptly.“Just like that, I got fired,” said Victor Reyes, who is from Mexico and worked in the kitchen alongside the chef.“The manager called me and asked, ‘Victor, are you legal?’ I said, ‘No, I am not legal.’ It surprised me because I knew he knew that I was illegal. I have worked for him 16 years and then he asks me,” said Mr. Reyes, who added that it was his first job since crossing the border.Mr. Reyes had worked up from a dishwasher to grilling steaks and preparing a la carte orders, he said, and acquired many cooking skills along the way.The firings at the Pine Hill golf club were the result of a broader audit that the Trump Organization is conducting at its properties across the country, according to people briefed on the review. Although the organization has conducted similar reviews in prior years, this is the largest effort yet to ensure that the company’s employees are authorized to work in the country.The review has presented yet another legal and public relations headache for company executives who are trying to contain the fallout from the revelations. It comes as the Trump Organization is facing wider scrutiny from congressional Democrats examining the company’s business practices.At this point in the review, the issues appear to have been largely concentrated in the Bedminster and Westchester golf clubs, the people said, though the discovery of undocumented workers at the southern New Jersey property show that the matter is more widespread than initially believed. The terminations at the Westchester club were first reported by The Washington Post.The Trump Organization announced on Tuesday that it was using a system — known as E-verify — to prevent undocumented workers from getting jobs at its properties. For the last several years, the company had utilized that system in many of its hotel properties, though it did not adopt it at most of the golf courses.“I must say, for me personally, this whole thing is truly heartbreaking,” Eric Trump, an executive vice president with the Trump Organization, said in a statement on Tuesday. “Our employees are like family, but when presented with fake documents, an employer has little choice.”He said that hiring undocumented immigrants was not a problem unique to the Trump Organization, and that it “demonstrates that our immigration system is severely broken and needs to be fixed immediately.”About eight million undocumented workers participate in the United States labor force, and it is an open secret that they use fake documents to get hired, typically made-up social security numbers and permanent residency cards.The Pine Hill club has an 18-hole golf course surrounded by maple and pine trees on 365 acres. Members enjoy putting greens and a 43,000-square-foot clubhouse where weddings and other events take place. Sitting atop a hill, it boasts a view of the Philadelphia skyline.The golf club employs 100 to 200 people, many of them in seasonal jobs. Immigrants employed there were charged with watering, mowing and manicuring the greens; the upkeep of the banquet hall, which has a 300-person capacity; and preparing food in the club’s restaurant.Because the workers do not have lawyers and remain in the country illegally, two of those who described the firings, as well as their family members, declined to be named.Workers said that those who were terminated were summoned to a meeting with Eric Quinn, the general manager, and a human-resources executive who they believed was from the Trump Organization. Each was told that their documents did not pass inspection after an audit and that they should leave the premises immediately, leaving some of the workers who lacked driver’s licenses to scramble to find rides home.“People were getting fired on the spot, no warning, no nothing. No time to find a job,” said one worker, who declined to be named.The worker said that the immigrants had been treated well by the club’s management and that some of them had broken down when they were fired. “It’s not easy to find a job if you don’t have papers, after you worked there,” the worker said. The general manager, according to several accounts, was said to have lamented the terminations.Executives at the Pine Hill club declined to comment.The problem of undocumented workers at Trump properties came to light in December, when The Times wrote about Victorina Morales of Guatemala, a housekeeper at the Bedminster property who made the president’s bed, washed his clothes and dusted his golf trophies for five years. After Mr. Trump was elected, a manager told her that her fake documents had expired and helped her acquire new ones.Ms. Morales said that on the advice of her lawyer, she stopped going to work on Dec. 4, two days before The Times article was published. The lawyer, Anibal Romero, has said that neither he nor his client had been notified that she was fired, and that her employment status was not clear.Ms. Morales, who is protected from deportation because she applied for asylum, was invited by her Democratic congresswoman, Bonnie Watson Coleman, to attend the State of the Union address on Tuesday. Also attending will be Sandra Diaz, a native of Costa Rica and a legal resident of the United States who said she was undocumented when she worked at the Trump resort. She will be the guest of Representative Jimmy Gomez, a California Democrat.Another undocumented worker, Emma Torres, told The Times that someone in human resources at the Bedminster club had removed her name and other undocumented workers’ names from a list of employees submitted to the Secret Service in 2017. Ms. Torres quit shortly after on her own volition.At Pine Hill, Mr. Reyes said that he was treated well by Mr. Quinn, the general manager, and expressed gratitude for the opportunity to grow professionally during his years at the golf club, where his hard work was recognized, he said. Over the years, on the job his repertoire of dishes grew and he learned English.“I had too many raises,” said the immigrant from Puebla, who said that he earned $18 an hour. The money enabled him to pay his rent and send money to his family back in Mexico.He received his first bonus in all his years working at the club, he said, in late December. In hindsight, Mr. Reyes wonders whether that was because management knew that he would not be welcome back after the winter hiatus.Now, he said, he is seething with a sense of betrayal.“I loved my job. I learned to cook everything. They helped me grow,” he said, erupting in tears. “Now I feel bad. I don’t trust nobody.”Mr. Trump, who during his campaign called Mexicans “rapists” and “criminals,” has made border security and protecting jobs for Americans cornerstones of his presidency. His commitment to erecting a border wall resulted in the recent partial government shutdown.He has deemed illegal immigration “a major, major problem,” and his administration has intensified workplace raids and payroll audits at companies suspected of employing undocumented workers.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byPeople say that the 1998 impeachment of Bill Clinton hurt Republicans. Did it really?By Philippe ReinesMr. Reines is a former senior adviser to Hillary Clinton.The impeachment of Bill Clinton backfired on Republicans.It’s a sentiment repeated daily without question on cable news, in Congress and probably inside the White House.But exactly how did impeachment backfire? With two decades of hindsight, it’s not clear the Republicans faced any lasting consequences — a perspective that should inform any Democrat considering whether to undertake the same effort against President Trump.The case for why impeachment hurt the Republicans is straightforward. Most obviously, it didn’t work: President Clinton was not convicted and removed from office. In fact, in early 1999, at the height of the impeachment process, he was more popular than at any other time of his presidency. Furthermore, in the fall of 1998, at the first opportunity for voters to express their feelings at the ballot box after the House voted to begin an impeachment inquiry, the Democrats picked up five seats in the House of Representatives, an embarrassment that drove Newt Gingrich from the speaker’s office. But consider what followed. First, the Republicans went on to take or hold the White House in three of the next five presidential elections — including the 2016 race between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton. And while Democrats did gain a handful of House seats in midterm elections in 1998, the Republicans maintained control for eight more years, until disapproval of the Iraq war finally tipped Congress to the Democrats in 2006. On the Senate side in 1998, the Republicans maintained their 55-45 majority. With the exception of a 17-month window in 2002 and 2003, Republicans controlled the Senate until 2006. In short, the Republican wave of 1994 endured for nearly a decade after the failed impeachment.It’s true that Mr. Clinton was not removed from office, but Republicans used the fact of his impeachment as a cudgel first against his vice president, Al Gore, and later against his wife. While its impact can’t be quantified, it sure didn’t help either in their election bids.Finally, and most important, the very myth that the 1998 impeachment hurt Republicans protects them today, when pressure to move against Mr. Trump is met with concerns about the political fallout. Clearly, we need to reconsider that myth.Basically, a high crime committed by a Republican won’t be prosecuted because a Democrat was persecuted over a misdemeanor.There are many reasons for Democrats to contemplate impeachment today that go beyond politics. Substantial evidence has already emerged showing that the president has abused his office to the detriment of the American public. That evidence deserves a thorough and transparent airing in Congress, arguably the only venue available for trying a sitting president.Still, as pundits never tire of saying, impeachment is a political process, not a legal one — and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and Senator Chuck Schumer are right to wonder whether it makes sense to seek impeachment, especially given the unlikelihood of enough Republicans breaking ranks in the Senate. On Monday, Ms. Pelosi said that, for now, Mr. Trump was “not worth” the cost of impeachment to the country.But impeachment is worth it, politically, and not just because of what history shows us. If anything, Democrats are in an even better position than Republicans were in 1998 to benefit, or at worst not suffer, politically.For one thing, 22 Republican senators are up for re-election in 2020, against just 12 Democrats. Especially if the public support for impeachment continues to grow, a Republican vote to acquit the president could tip at least a few vulnerable Republican seats.Also, one reason people think the Republicans suffered for 1998 is that everyone knew, then and later, that it was a crassly political move — Mr. Clinton’s lapses, however you judge them, were personal, not the sort of “high crimes and misdemeanors” that impeachment is intended to address. Most voters today, whether they support Mr. Trump or not, will probably see a potential impeachment against him differently. Especially as the evidence mounts, reasonable people will more and more conclude that the Democrats are doing their civic duty by pursuing impeachment (and those who disagree probably wouldn’t vote Democratic anyway).There is also a mounting political cost to not impeaching Mr. Trump. He will hail it as exoneration and he will go into the 2020 campaign under the banner “I Told You So,” declaring that for all their talk of removing him from office, Democrats had merely been playing politics for three years.All this assumes that impeachment won’t happen. But the political case is so strong, and the evidence against Mr. Trump so persuasive, that however unlikely, it is not impossible that 20 Republican senators join the Democrats. But perhaps the most persuasive political case for impeachment is the long view. Set aside what it would mean for the 2020 elections. Mr. Trump is a pernicious, divisive figure who is poisoning our politics, and hopes to do so for years to come. Should he lose in 2020, he has already laid the groundwork for an all-out assault against the media, the political establishment and the Democratic Party itself.Politically, we — the country, not just the Democratic Party — cannot accept that risk. Impeachment might be the only remedy we have.Philippe Reines was a senior adviser and spokesman for Hillary Clinton from 2002 to 2017.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byG.O.P. congressional leaders used tactics to minimize the president’s influence and maximize their own control over public policy.By Matthew GlassmanMr. Glassman is a senior fellow at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown.Donald Trump has a Congress problem. He can’t get Republicans to promote his policies. And when he forces the issue — as with his border wall — he can’t win their support.But most Americans don’t know that. After all, Republican legislators voted with the president well over 90 percent of the time during the 115th Congress. Record numbers of appellate judges were confirmed, and the president signed major tax legislation. Many observers have concluded that Mr. Trump dominates the Republican Party, and his loyal base holds congressional Republicans tautly in line.But discerning legislative influence is more difficult than it appears. Throughout the first two years of the Trump presidency, Republican leaders in Congress skillfully used a variety of tactics to minimize the president’s influence and maximize their own control over public policy.Critically, congressional Republicans have adopted strategies that make the public — and more important, his conservative base — think Mr. Trump is in command. To casual followers of political news, the visible evidence from congressional votes and news releases suggests a powerful president leading a loyal congressional party. In reality, Republican legislators have hidden their influence, purposefully disguising a weak president with little clout on Capitol Hill while also preserving party unity.In his 1960 book, “Presidential Power and the Modern Presidents,” the political scientist Richard Neustadt argued that presidential power is “the power to persuade.” Strong presidents have significant influence over public policy because they wield informal power, developing a reputation for getting their way and punishing those who impede their progress. Weak presidents — like Mr. Trump — fail to persuade, allowing competing political actors in Washington to block their goals and assert their own influence.Mr. Neustadt identified a second resource that aids in presidential persuasion: public prestige. Political actors in Washington may not fear the president, but they may think twice about standing in his way if they perceive the public response to doing so may hurt them.On this dimension, Mr. Trump appears to be stronger. His overall approval rating is very poor, but he is extremely popular among Republican voters. And his sizable conservative base is ready and willing to turn on elected Republicans in primary elections should they displease the president. The infrastructure of conservative media — Fox News, talk radio — strongly supports (and influences) Mr. Trump, augmenting this public power. Mr. Trump may not have much ability to sway Democrats, but Republican officials credibly fear crossing him.Nevertheless, congressional Republicans have found a solution to this challenge: agenda-setting. Political power is not simply the ability to influence the positions citizens or lawmakers take on issues, but also the ability to control what issues are discussed and voted on.Throughout the last Congress, Republican leaders simply declined to take up legislation that reflected the priority of the president but not their own. There were no votes on immigration restrictions or funding for a border wall, protectionist trade legislation or infrastructure.The Trump budget proposals for the 2017 and 2018 fiscal years requested deep cuts in nondefense discretionary spending. Congressional Republicans quietly buried them and delivered bills both years that increased nondefense spending.Such “negative” agenda-setting leaves little trace; without a vote, it becomes difficult for opponents or voters to identify or understand what happened. President Trump’s priorities weren’t voted down in the House or the Senate; they were just never considered.Agenda-setting also provides congressional leaders “positive” power to set legislative priorities. Mr. Trump has famously shown little interest in the details of policy, and Republican leaders in Washington easily convinced him to accept as his priorities the party’s orthodox issues of Affordable Care Act repeal and tax cuts during his first year in office.By setting the agenda and having the president sign on, Republican legislators controlled policy while sharing the position of the president. When Republicans held a White House celebration after passing tax legislation, Mr. Trump claimed credit, and legislators publicly praised the “Trump” tax bill, and the president himself.This trade-off, in which orthodox Republicans get policy control and Mr. Trump gets the glory, is also apparent in the nominations of judges and executive branch officials. The president was quite successful in having judicial nominees confirmed. But virtually all of his confirmed judges have been standard conservatives; likewise, his successful executive branch appointments much more reflect Republican priorities than his own.By privately influencing Mr. Trump to nominate people who reflect Republican priorities, congressional leaders not only win substantively, but the president gets to show off a perfect record of confirmations on the Senate floor, and a high rate of Republican support for his nominees.Despite this, Mr. Trump has had an unusually large number of nominees rejected by the Senate, many of whom were put forth without previous input from congressional leaders. But this, too, has been done less visibly, with candidates withdrawing or being defeated in committee rather than being rejected in actual votes on the Senate floor.The logic of agenda-setting also explains the reticence of congressional Republicans to conduct meaningful oversight of Mr. Trump or his administration. Full-scale legitimate investigations require visible agenda-setting. They cannot be accomplished by omission or in private.Negative and positive agenda-setting served the Republican policy agenda well during the first two years of the Trump administration. In December, however, in backing out of a Republican-constructed Senate deal that would have kept the government open, the president forcefully asserted his own legislative agenda-setting.Given the power of the veto as a presidential tool of negative agenda-setting, exasperated Republican senators had little choice but to allow Mr. Trump to take control of the border wall negotiations.Congressional leaders, however, continued to use subtle agenda-setting tactics. The majority leader, Mitch McConnell, became largely absent from the public debate, declining to take part in post-negotiation news conferences at the White House and flatly declaring he would not bring legislation to the Senate floor until the president and Democratic leaders had reached a deal that could pass — and Republicans would not have to visibly cross the president in difficult public votes.These tactics yielded impressive results. While a majority of Americans blamed Mr. Trump for the partial government shutdown, very few blamed congressional Republicans. The G.O.P. leaders have managed to not get the blame for the shutdown or get blamed by the base for abandoning the president.Now that Democrats control the House, Republican leaders may find it more difficult to limit the president’s legislative role. Mr. Trump will be less likely to accept a mostly theatric role in interparty negotiations and, as shown in the shutdown, may be more interested than congressional Republicans in public confrontation.This bodes poorly for legislative prospects in the new Congress. In our current partisan environment, the visible engagement of the president in the legislative process tends to polarize debate on even seemingly nonpartisan issues. Republican leaders know they’ve lost much of their policymaking capacity. They may soon realize they also can no longer mask the weakness of Mr. Trump.Matthew Glassman (@MattGlassman312) is a senior fellow at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The special counsel, Robert Mueller, did not find evidence that President Trump coordinated with Russia to influence the 2016 election, Attorney General William Barr said yesterday. But the White House still faces legal challenges.Mr. Trump claimed victory from the report, which concluded Mr. Mueller’s two-year investigation into the Russia issue. Especially comforting to the president: Mr. Mueller did not recommend additional indictments of his inner circle.The president was not found to have obstructed justice, Mr. Barr added, saying that the special counsel did not find enough evidence. But the report did not exonerate Mr. Trump on this accusation, as Mr. Mueller did not provide a verdict either way.Mr. Trump derided the inquiry as an “illegal takedown that failed,” and demanded that those responsible for it face additional scrutiny. That triumphalism ran counter to advice from aides.But the White House isn’t in the clear yet. Congressional Democrats pledged to continue pursuing investigations into Trump and his allies. And prosecutors in New York City are still investigating an array of issues that touch on Mr. Trump’s business and political dealings.The markets may get a small boost from the end of the investigation, according to analysts who spoke to CNBC.China’s top economic policymakers have promised more market-based competition and international trade, in the latest sign that the country is eager to end its trade war with the U.S., Keith Bradsher of the NYT writes.The promises being made were significant. Officials at the China Development Forum, the country’s premier annual economic policy conference, spoke of increasing imports, a desire for more foreign investment and a willingness to allow foreign financial firms to own larger stakes in their Chinese competitors.They may sound familiar, however. “Chinese officials have said for years that they were ready to allow foreign competitors to enter their market on a more equal footing,” Mr. Bradsher writes. “The promises made over the weekend in many cases repeated pledges that have been made before.”But China now has other reasons to embrace openness. “In addition to a trade war that is hitting the country’s exporters, China’s economy has also been hurt by private sector business leaders who have become increasingly cautious in recent months about making new investments,” Mr. Bradsher adds.The promises will most likely feature in trade talks. American and Chinese officials are scheduled to hold trade talks in Beijing in the coming days, and another round of talks in Washington the following week.The airplane maker is taking more steps to convince the authorities and customers that fixes for its 737 Max 8 jets — two of which have crashed in recent months — are near.It tested a software update  for the Max 8 aircraft with pilots from five airlines over the weekend, the NYT reports. Using flight simulators, the pilots were able to safely land planes suffering from problems believed to have brought down Lion Air Flight 610 last year.And the company outlined other software fixes that are meant to eliminate flaws in an automated piloting program at the heart of the crashes. Boeing also said that it would now make two previously optional safety features on the planes free of charge.But Boeing is facing heat from Congress over the safety-certification process that cleared the Max 8 for flight. Lawmakers are concerned about how much responsibility the company held for certifying the safety of its own planes.More Boeing news: How the company rushed to roll out the 737 Max to catch up with Airbus. Why the crashes highlight the challenges of adding modern software to older technology. And why JPMorgan Chase economists worry about broader fallout from Boeing’s problems.The yield curve is essentially the difference between interest rates on short-term government bonds and long-term government bonds. Since 1960, every time that it has inverted — when long-term rates were lower than short-term rates — a recession has followed.It happened on Friday.More on that from Matt Phillips of the NYT:• “The yield on the 10-year Treasury note tumbled to 2.44 percent Friday, its lowest level since January 2018. That was just below the 2.45 percent yield on three-month Treasury bills.”• “Research from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco has cited the yield difference between three-month Treasury bills and 10-year Treasury notes — which inverted Friday — as the most reliable predictor of recession risk.”• “On Friday, the S&P 500 fell 1.9 percent, as stock market investors grew concerned about the outlook for economic growth. It was the second-worst drop for the market this year.”Don’t hyperventilate. Some parts of the yield curve have not yet inverted, and experts say the inversion doesn’t necessarily predict economic collapse. “A model is just a model,” Campbell Harvey, a Duke University finance professor, told the NYT. “It’s not an oracle. It helps us forecast the future, but it might at any point fail.”With smartphone sales stagnating, Apple is making a push to make money from services. And today, we find out what that looks like, as the company makes a series of announcements about its moves into the world of media. Here’s what to expect:• Video streaming. According to the WSJ, Apple has “used a $1 billion budget to buy dozens of original TV shows in hopes it can land a breakout hit,” and plans to announce tie-ups to offer $9.99 subscriptions for channels like HBO and Showtime. Original content would reportedly “be delivered in a new TV app that staff have been calling a Netflix killer,” and also require a subscription.• News. The company’s new news-subscription service is expected to cost $9.99 a month and provide “access to more than 200 magazines — including Bon Appétit, People and Glamour — as well as newspapers,” according to the WSJ.• And maybe games? Bloomberg suggests that the company might even announce “a premium games subscription for its App Store.” This wouldn’t be the cloud gaming of the kind announced by Google last week, but bundles of games for the iPhone and iPad.You can watch the event here, starting at 1 p.m. Eastern.The British prime minister is struggling for control and respect as she tries again to gain Parliament’s support for her Brexit deal this week.Her week starts with a tense cabinet meeting, with her Conservative Party in “uproar after ministers discussed replacing her as leader just weeks before the Brexit deadline,” according to the FT.Lawmakers will then try to undermine her control of Brexit, when they vote later today on a plan “to take control of the legislative agenda for a single day,” Bloomberg explains. “This would allow lawmakers to express support for different options ranging from a second referendum to a customs union with the E.U. and even canceling Brexit.”She’s still hawking her Brexit deal. But meetings over the weekend with high-profile Euroskeptic lawmakers, including Boris Johnson and Jacob Rees-Mogg, failed to gain their backing. That means she still lacks the support needed to win a third vote on her proposal.All this comes against the backdrop of public demand for a second referendum on Brexit. On Saturday, an estimated 1 million people marched through London to demand a new vote on leaving the E.U.As the S.E.C. and Elon Musk continue to fight in court over his tweeting, the Tesla C.E.O. fired back on Friday. His latest argument: the agency is incorrectly interpreting a settlement agreement between the two.Mr. Musk’s insists his tweet review process is O.K. In his view, he is supposed to only run tweets containing material information about Tesla by an in-house lawyer — and he is free to determine what qualifies. An earlier draft of the settlement, offered by the S.E.C., would have required him to run all public statements by a lawyer. He rejected that proposal.He also says the tweet that drew the ire of the S.E.C. wasn’t controversial. His comment about Tesla production forecasts, he argues, contained information that had previously been made public, and was made after stock markets closed for the day. But the S.E.C. says that’s an after-the-fact rationalization.It’s up to a judge to decide whether Mr. Musk violated the settlement and should be held in contempt. The S.E.C. has declined to ask for a hearing on the matter, The Verge reports, since it believes it has already made its case.Silicon Valley’s business model pretty much relies on pervasive screens being a good thing. But Big Tech’s most successful executives increasingly spend lots of money to shelter themselves from the digital reality they helped create, Nellie Bowles of the NYT reports, potentially creating a new class divide.• At first, tech products like Facebook and Gmail were democratic: They were the same no matter who you were, and they were free. Companies extolled the value of widespread laptop use in schools, arguing that they were preparing kids for the future.• But now schools that are short of cash, like those in Kansas, focus on screens, not human interaction. And low-income elderly patients rely on digital avatars to keep them company.• Meanwhile, Ms. Bowles writes, “As wealthy kids are growing up with less screen time, poor kids are growing up with more. How comfortable someone is with human engagement could become a new class marker.”• “The wealthy can afford to opt out of having their data and their attention sold as a product. The poor and middle class don’t have the same kind of resources to make that happen.”The Democratic senators Elizabeth Warren and Sherrod Brown called on banking regulators to oust Tim Sloan as Wells Fargo’s C.E.O.President Trump plans to nominate Stephen Moore, an economic adviser and frequent critic of the Fed, as a governor of the central bank. (Here’s why he might be a poor choice.)Citigroup fired eight traders in Hong Kong for reportedly misleading clients.Deals• Uber is reportedly set to buy Careem, a Middle Eastern competitor, for about $3.1 billion this week. (Bloomberg)• Pinterest’s I.P.O. filing showed that it’s a rare Silicon Valley unicorn — one that isn’t bleeding money. (NYT)• ICYMI: Everything you need to know about the Lyft I.P.O. (DealBook)• Naspers, the South African internet giant, plans to spin off its stake in Tencent and other international holdings into a new publicly held company. (Bloomberg)• The telecom equipment maker Avaya is reportedly considering a $5 billion takeover offer from a private equity firm. (Reuters)Politics and policy• How “Medicare for all” would disrupt the entire health care industry. (NYT)• House Democrats like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez plan to pressure banks into taking stands on issues like gun violence and climate change. (Politico)• Energy executives celebrated the appointment of one of their allies to the No. 2 spot at the Interior Department, according to a recording of a 2017 industry meeting. (Politico)Tech• Microsoft’s president, Brad Smith, says that in the wake of the Christchurch shooting it’s time to consider Big Tech’s legal responsibilities. (Microsoft)• Volvo’s C.E.O. says that rolling out autonomous vehicles prematurely could “kill a technology that might be the best lifesaver in the history of the car.” Also: Waymo’s autonomous taxi fleet has reportedly suffered plenty of close calls and frequent rider complaints. (FT, Information)• Mike Lynch, the former C.E.O. of the British software company Autonomy, faces new criminal charges of wire fraud, securities fraud and conspiracy. (Bloomberg)• The European Commission is expected to pursue a plan to manage the risk of using Huawei telecom hardware, defying calls from the U.S. to simply not use it. (FT)• Banks are using A.I. to spot rogue traders before they even act. (FT)Best of the rest• Silicon Valley venture capitalists are taking victory laps as unicorns like Lyft and Uber go public. (NYT)• Tyson has recalled 69,000 pounds of chicken strips after metal fragments were found in them. (NYT)• Sweden is expected to force its banks to continue offering customers cash transactions. (FT)• The O.E.C.D. recently tried to quantify the global counterfeiting industry. Its conclusion: The business represented as much as 3.3 percent of global trade in 2016. (Axios)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byHis presidency hasn’t been the boon for gun-rights supporters that they might have hoped.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Last Valentine’s Day, a year ago this Thursday, classes were wrapping up at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School when a former student with a semiautomatic rifle murdered 17 people and wounded 17 others. It so happens that this Wednesday, the House Judiciary Committee will move to advance legislation requiring background checks on all firearm sales. The killer in the Parkland, Fla., school massacre passed such a check, but this measure would close a loophole exploited by other killers that exempts unlicensed gun sellers from conducting background checks. Support for such a change is overwhelmingly popular, even among gun owners. The bill has an excellent chance of passing the Democrat-led House. Its prospects in the Senate, controlled by the Republican majority leader, Mitch McConnell, are bleak.Even so, the very emergence of this bill is a reminder of how the gun debate has shifted since President Trump took office — and not in a direction that Second Amendment crusaders might have hoped. Politically, financially and legally, the gun-rights cause and, more specifically, the lobbying juggernaut that is the National Rifle Association have not fared well in the Trump era. If this trend continues — or accelerates — it could wind up being a rare silver lining to Mr. Trump’s presidency.Some of the challenges facing the gun lobby are not specific to Mr. Trump. A gun-loving president always makes a less effective boogeyman than a gun-skeptical one. In that way, President Barack Obama was good for the gun-rights cause — and it was perhaps inevitable that, having labored to get Mr. Trump elected, the N.R.A.’s fund-raising would taper off. In 2017, the group’s revenues dropped by $55 million, or 15 percent, over its 2016 haul, driven largely by a decline in member dues. Combined with its heavy spending in the 2016 campaign, the group now finds itself in a deep financial hole, in debt to the tune of $31.8 million. The N.R.A. has suffered Trump-specific turmoil as well. As part of the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election, the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has been exploring possible ties between the N.R.A. and Russia. Among Mr. Mueller’s top concerns is reportedly whether Russian interests funneled money to the Trump campaign via the N.R.A. — and, if so, to what degree the group’s leaders may have known what was happening.In addition to Mr. Mueller’s interest in the N.R.A., there have been multiple congressional inquiries into a possible love triangle among the gun group, Team Trump and Russia. With Democrats now in charge of the House, expect the scrutiny to get more intense. Representative Adam Schiff, the new head of the Intelligence Committee, has said that under Republican leadership the committee did not delve deeply enough into the muck. “We were really not able to determine how the Russians used the N.R.A. as a back channel or look into allegations that the Russians may have funneled money through the N.R.A. to influence the election,” Mr. Schiff recently told The Times. “Those issues remain of deep interest to us.”Beyond any legal missteps that may be uncovered, revelations that the N.R.A. was snuggling up to Russian officials and intimates of President Vladimir Putin already have proved a public-relations nightmare. Particularly embarrassing is the bizarre case of Maria Butina, the Russian graduate student who pleaded guilty in December to working as a foreign agent and who conspired to infiltrate the N.R.A. and the Republican Party in order to help Russia influence American politics.While the Russia-N.R.A. bonds were years in the making, Americans can thank Mr. Trump for the intense spotlight on this unwholesome relationship.Last year, for the first time in nearly two decades, polling indicated that more Americans held a negative view than a positive view of the N.R.A. There has also been an upswing in support for stricter gun laws.Despite the will of the people, the Republican-controlled Congress clung to its do-nothing approach after the Parkland shooting and others like it. At the state level, however, there has been action. The private sector also got involved. Dick’s Sporting Goods and Walmart both halted the sale of assault-style weapons in their stores, along with the sale of guns and ammunition to customers under age 21. Companies ranging from MetLife to Delta to Alamo Rent A Car did away with discounts for N.R.A. members.The political world has sensed this shift in the wind. Of late, more lawmakers have seemed willing to boast about their poor ratings by the gun lobby. The 2018 elections were the first in which spending for gun-safety advertising exceeded that for guns-rights ads, and candidates backed by gun-safety groups enjoyed important victories.Not all of the change can be directly attributable to Mr. Trump, of course. But, much as women’s frustration over his presidency helped drive the #MeToo movement, his administration has energized gun-safety advocates, who have put the gun lobby and its cause on the defensive.This won’t yield an imminent revolution on regulating firearms, especially within the overly cautious halls of Congress. The N.R.A. remains a political powerhouse, an increasingly conservative Republican Party still controls the White House and the Senate, and guns remain a centerpiece of the culture war.But with a topic this polarizing, small steps deserve to be applauded — and encouraged. When lawmakers held a hearing on the background-check bill last week, it was the first hearing in eight years to broach the subject of gun violence.With a little luck and some political spine, more such actions will follow. The victims and survivors of Parkland, and of the 339 other mass shootings in 2018 alone, deserve more than pious sentiment and political cowardice.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe United States can make progress toward reducing the North Korean nuclear threat if Mr. Trump is disciplined in his diplomacy.By Susan E. RiceMs. Rice, a contributing opinion writer, was the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017.On the eve of his departure for his second summit with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, President Trump said: “I don’t want to rush anybody. I just don’t want testing. As long as there is no testing, we’re happy.” Last April, Mr. Kim announced a halt to testing nuclear weapons and missiles, a positive but reversible step. Still, with an arsenal estimated to contain dozens of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles that can reach the continental United States, the North Korean threat remains as urgent and serious as ever.Remarkably, President Trump has declared himself content with a nuclear armed North Korea. Not only is this a dangerous reversal of decades of American policy, which has long sought the “complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization” of the Korean Peninsula, it amounts to acceptance of North Korea as a nuclear state.For Mr. Trump, diplomacy with North Korea has always been about theater and politics. In falsely declaring after his first summit with Mr. Kim that “there is no longer a nuclear threat from North Korea,” while bragging that the risk of war — which he foolishly stoked — is now diminished, the president is intent on creating the illusion of progress. In fact, there has been none toward our core goal of full denuclearization. Mr. Trump instead touts his love of Mr. Kim at campaign rallies and generates Nobel Peace Prize nominations for himself with the aim of convincing his political base that he is a diplomatic genius. If he can punt the complex North Korean nuclear threat to the end of his presidency without being disturbed by new tests, Mr. Trump would seem content to claim victory and leave the problem to his successors.Thus, the risk of the Hanoi summit is twofold. First, in a rush to generate good optics and distract from unpleasant developments at home, Mr. Trump may make further concessions to the North Korean dictator, like a peace declaration, partial sanctions relief, or continued limitations on United States military exercises or troop presence without receiving tangible, irreversible concessions in return. Second, Mr. Trump risks squandering an opportunity to make real headway toward denuclearization.The United States intelligence community continues to assess that North Korea will not dismantle all of its nuclear weapons and delivery systems, because Mr. Kim sees them as vital to his regime’s survival. Still, it would be wise to test the limits of diplomacy and the possibility that American experts are wrong. Dialogue, backed by sanctions and concerted international pressure, represent the only rational path for defusing the North Korean nuclear threat. The alternative, a devastating conflagration that could escalate into nuclear war, should be unthinkable.Fortunately, the Trump administration’s new envoy for North Korea, Stephen Biegun, understands the risks and the opportunities. He is engaged in a serious effort to try both to eradicate North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs and address the issues impeding normalization of relations. If Mr. Trump truly empowers Mr. Biegun and refrains from granting premature concessions or acquiescing in the unacceptable status quo, there is potential for meaningful dialogue in Hanoi — unlike the hyped, hollow pledges that characterized the Singapore summit.To move the needle, the United States and North Korea will need to agree on a series of incremental, reciprocal steps that would build mutual confidence as part of a road map to full denuclearization. Such steps could combine verifiable constraints on North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs with limited sanctions relief and movement toward achieving a final peace agreement. Reasonable constraints would include opening up declared North Korean facilities to international inspectors, halting further production of fissile material and ballistic missiles, codifying Mr. Kim’s announced testing freezes and nonproliferation pledge and obtaining firm commitments from North Korea to declare the totality of its nuclear and missile infrastructure.The model for this approach, anathema as it is to Mr. Trump, is the Iran nuclear negotiations. First, the Obama administration reached an interim agreement with Iran to freeze its nuclear development and roll back aspects of its program in exchange for limited and reversible sanctions relief. This Joint Plan of Action created the conditions for extended negotiations to achieve — over a year and a half later — a final, verifiable deal to denuclearize Iran. This plan was affirmed by Congress and enshrined in international law. Iran was fully adhering to its obligations when the Trump administration unilaterally withdrew last year.To maximize the prospects for success, as in the Iran negotiations, the United States needs China, Russia, Japan and South Korea to join in overseeing implementation of any interim deal. They must also tighten enforcement of existing sanctions and agree to synchronize any deliberate easing of pressure in exchange for concrete, verifiable steps from North Korea. Unfortunately, our international partners are pursuing their separate interests, diminishing American leverage. Though the Trump administration reflexively scorns multilateral efforts, North Korea is yet another case where going it alone won’t suffice.In Hanoi, Mr. Trump has an opportunity to achieve incremental progress toward denuclearization. Unfortunately, history suggests that Mr. Trump will be content with another colorful photo opportunity and more diplomatic shadow boxing that perpetuates the illusion of success, while running down the clock on a nearly intractable challenge.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017 and a former United States ambassador to the United Nations, is a contributing opinion writer.  @AmbassadorRice Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. Shear and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — President Trump hosted Jair Bolsonaro, the Brazilian president, at the White House on Tuesday, and it was something like looking in the mirror.Like other authoritarian leaders Mr. Trump has embraced since taking office, Mr. Bolsonaro is an echo of the American president: a brash nationalist whose populist appeal comes partly from his use of Twitter and his history of making crude statements about women, gay people and indigenous groups.“They say he’s the Donald Trump of South America,” Mr. Trump marveled during a speech to the Farm Bureau in January, noting that Mr. Bolsonaro had been called the “Trump of the tropics” since taking office this year. “Do you believe that? And he’s happy with that. If he wasn’t, I wouldn’t like the country so much. But I like him.”At a news conference after the two men held a luncheon meeting, Mr. Trump gushed that “I think Brazil’s relationship with the United States, because of our friendship, is probably better than it’s ever been by far.”“Our trade with Brazil will go substantially up,” Mr. Trump predicted earlier in the afternoon, “and that’s one of the things Brazil would like to see.”United States officials said this week that Mr. Trump appreciated the way Mr. Bolsonaro powered his way to victory in Brazil’s election by being unabashedly pro-American and declaring repeatedly that he wanted to have a close relationship with Mr. Trump.In part because of the stylistic similarities between the two leaders, White House officials expressed optimism that Brazil and the United States — two of the largest economies in the Western Hemisphere — would be able to work through disagreements and forge a closer bond on trade and regional issues in South America, including confronting the political crisis in Venezuela.But the warmth displayed between the two leaders at the White House also underscores how Mr. Trump has upended the usual foreign policy traditions established over decades by his predecessors.Since taking office, Mr. Trump has repeatedly confronted and challenged the United States’ closest democratic allies, including the leaders of Canada, Germany and France, while speaking with glowing admiration about some of the globe’s most brutal dictators: Kim Jong-un of North Korea, Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Xi Jinping of China, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey and Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Alexandra Leigh Young, Andy Mills and Jonathan Wolfe, and edited by Paige Cowett and Lisa TobinJair Bolsonaro spent most of his career on the political fringe, until his message started to resonate with a country reeling from economic hardship and a widespread corruption scandal.michael barbaroFrom the New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today —archived recording (donald trump)Today, I’m very thrilled to welcome President Bolsonaro of Brazil for his first visit to the White House.michael barbaroOn Tuesday, President Trump held a joint news conference with the newly elected president of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro.archived recording (donald trump)President Bolsonaro, I want to congratulate you again on your tremendous election victory. Last October, it was an incredible feat and, really, a truly incredible challenge. And the end result was something the whole world was talking about.michael barbaroThe campaign he ran and his brash style have earned Bolsonaro the nickname the “Trump of the tropics,” a comparison that Trump has embraced and said he is honored by.archived recording (donald trump)I also know that we’re going to have a fantastic working relationship. We have many views that are similar.michael barbaroMy colleague, Ernesto Londoño, on the story of Bolsonaro. It’s Wednesday, March 20. So who is Bolsonaro, and how did he enter Brazilian politics?ernesto londoñoBolsonaro is a former army captain. He was a paratrooper who had a pretty short and fairly turbulent stint in the military. He actually got kicked out. But after leaving the military in not the best of terms, he was very successful at sliding into a political career, initially as a city council member in his native Rio de Janeiro. And then very soon, he found his way to the capital, Brasília, as a congressman.archived recordingThe dictatorship was at its most harsh in the late ‘60s and early ‘70s.ernesto londoñoAnd the country was emerging from a pretty traumatic period.archived recordingStudent demonstrations in 1968, calling for the restoration of democratic rights, prompted a strong response from the military.ernesto londoñoIt was definitely an era of repression, of terror, for many groups that were at odds with the military government, and a pretty widespread censorship and curtailment of civil rights.archived recordingMany of those arrested were to face torture.ernesto londoñoBut in ‘88, lawmakers passed a very progressive Constitution.archived recordingIt’s 29 years since Brazil last held free presidential elections.ernesto londoñoIf there is one point where it became starkly clear that Brazil had reached cruising altitude as a democracy, it would’ve been the election of Luiz Inácio da Silva, commonly known as Lula, in 2002. Lula was a former shoeshiner, son of a single mother, raised poor, rose to prominence as a union leader, started building a political movement during the era of military rule and was briefly jailed as a political prisoner. And when he is sworn in 2003 —archived recording[PORTUGUESE SPEECH]ernesto londoño— the region really sort of took a look at Brazil and said, wow, this country has really turned a corner. If a man like Lula can get elected in Brazil, Brazil has really matured as a democracy.michael barbaroAnd what role does Bolsonaro play in the midst of this pretty dramatic shift in Brazil?ernesto londoñoBolsonaro was seen as kind of a loud and obnoxious lawmaker, who would just get into these shouting matches in Congress, would deliver these fiery speeches.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoHe became infamous for saying things that were very offensive about women.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAbout blacks.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAbout gays.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoHe made the news, for instance, when he got into a shouting match with a female lawmaker.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAnd told her that she was too ugly to rape.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAnd the most startling thing, and it was the theme he went back and back to, was his praise for the era of military rule.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoThat Brazil needed strong men at the helm and that this experiment with democracy was not taking the country in the right direction.michael barbaroSo just as kind of modern democratic Brazil is coming into form, it sounds like Bolsonaro is entering politics, but is pushing in the other direction, for less democracy, more authoritarianism.ernesto londoñoAbsolutely. He essentially made the case, only the military can run this large, unwieldy country effectively. And we’re wasting our time thinking that this experiment with democracy is going to take us anywhere productive.michael barbaroAnd what was the response to moments like that?ernesto londoñoLargely speaking, people started saying, well, that’s just Bolsonaro being Bolsonaro. He made headlines. He was admonished. He was criticized. But he was not somebody who was really taken seriously. He was not somebody who was center stage when big deals were being negotiated. For most of his career, he was a little bit of a sideshow. And at the same time —archived recordingIn Brazil, Petrobras recently made what could be the world’s biggest oil discovery since the 1970s.ernesto londoñoLula had a remarkably successful first term as president, and Brazilians started seeing some pretty sweeping changes. Brazil, like much of the region, was enjoying a commodities boom.archived recordingThe discovery could mean that Brazil will become one of the world’s leading oil exporters.ernesto londoñoThere were some pretty groundbreaking policies that paved the way for people from poor families, people from rural communities, for the first time to go to university.archived recordingIn just seven years, almost 30 million Brazilians have joined the ranks of the middle class, some helped by government handouts, others through improved education, which leads to higher wages.ernesto londoñoThere was a sense that inequality was diminishing in a country where it’s long been really hard to move up the ladder. And Brazil started aspiring to great things. Brazil started making alliances with other large economies, like Russia and China and South Africa, and kind of projecting itself on the world stage as a rising power. I think this all became crystal clear, just kind of a sense of optimism and the sense that Brazil seemed unstoppable, when —archived recordingI have the honor to announce that the Games of the 31st Olympiad are awarded to the city of Rio de Janeiro. [CROWD CHEERS]ernesto londoñoIn 2009, Brazil beat the odds and won the rights to host the 2016 Olympic Games. And, you know, looking back now at how optimistic, you know, the scenes of people partying on the beach in Copacabana, just celebrating this major triumph for Brazil, it seems impossible to think now that the seeds of what would happen next had already been planted. And the reality was that underneath this triumphant country that seemed to be rising into a bright new era, underneath all that, there was a lot of rot. And it would take a few years for people here to discover just how much.[music]michael barbaroSo, Ernesto, how did this rot that you describe, this ugliness beneath the surface, eventually get exposed?ernesto londoñoWell, things in Brazil started taking a definite turn for the worse in 2014. Two major things happened. On the one hand, the economy, which had been on a slide, entered into recession. On the other hand, a team of investigators stumbled into a major scandal while they were looking at some funny financial transactions, initially at a gas station.archived recording 1In the past week, Brazilians have had wall-to-wall coverage of a political scandal threatening to bring down the country’s government. It first came to light when Brazilian police uncovered a money laundering operation at a car wash.archived recording 2It’s known as Operation Car Wash.ernesto londoñoThat quickly reached very, very deeply into very powerful politicians and the top companies in Brazil.archived recording 1The investigation centers on a billion-dollar corruption scandal at Brazil’s mammoth oil corporation, Petrobras.archived recording 2Petrobras is one of Brazil’s biggest companies. It’s alleged senior officials took almost $700 million in bribes when awarding construction contracts. Many that may have taken bribes are linked to the government.ernesto londoñoWe’re talking about massive companies that had entire departments with the task of paying bribes to politicians.archived recording 1The speaker of Brazil’s lower house of Congress has been charged over alleged involvement in a corruption scandal at the state-run —archived recording 2News breaking in the last hour that the former president of Brazil is being detained by police after a raid on his home and office —ernesto londoñoIt soon became apparent to Brazilians that corruption had been institutionalized.archived recordingFive former Brazilian presidents, nearly one out of three cabinet ministers, and almost one out of three senators have been indicted or investigated.michael barbaroAnd what was the reaction in the general Brazilian public once all this corruption comes to light?ernesto londoñoThere was outrage.archived recording[CHANTING]ernesto londoñoAs these scandals started engulfing some of the pillars of the economy here, some of the biggest companies in the country, unemployment goes up, people’s purchasing power goes down, and state governments start going bankrupt.archived recording[CHANTING]ernesto londoñoIn some places, this means the police aren’t getting paid. And people start seeing a surge of violence.archived recordingWith more than 50,000 violent deaths every year, Brazil has one of the world’s highest homicide rates.ernesto londoñoThey go from a period of feeling optimistic and almost euphoric about the future to a period of despair and anguish.michael barbaroAnd where is Bolsonaro in all of this?ernesto londoñoBolsonaro is one of the rarer veteran lawmakers who has not really been splattered by these corruption investigations. And at this time, he starts getting a fair amount of traction. All of a sudden, this guy who had kind of been a fringe character comes more into sync with how Brazilians were feeling about their lot in life.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAround 2016, he starts telling people that he wants to take a shot at the presidency.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAnd the way he spread his message was unique in the history of Brazilian presidential races. He was campaigning largely by sitting in front of a phone, which was often shaky.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAnd just broadcasting videos live on Facebook, on Instagram.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoWhere he was speaking to people as though they were long-lost friends.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoIt was completely unscripted, oftentimes stream-of-consciousness. He would jump from one subject to another.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAnd I think people saw that as pretty refreshing. People were so disgusted with politics as usual in the political establishment that they saw in this guy, who had been in the fringes for so long, somebody who could radically reinvent the system.archived recording[CHANTING]michael barbaroAnd does he have the stature at this moment to do that?ernesto londoñoWhen the very first rumblings of a Bolsonaro presidential bid start coming up, people laughed it off. The conventional wisdom was he’s too extreme. He’s too outside of the norm. But despite the skepticism, by the end of 2017, it became pretty clear that Bolsonaro’s message had strong appeal across the country.archived recording[CHANTING]michael barbaroAnd what exactly is he promising on the campaign trail that the Brazilian people are finding so compelling?ernesto londoñoOn corruption, he was very clear in stating that he was going have no patience for business as usual. And that under his tenure —archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoPeople who were corrupt had tons to fear. But I think the main promise he made to his supporters was that he was going to take extraordinary measures to restore security. And we’re talking about pretty draconian things. Bolsonaro, for example, once said, “A good criminal is a dead criminal.”archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoHe made it clear he was essentially going to give the police free rein to shoot suspected criminals on the spot.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoThe third thing he did, which was unusual, was surround himself with military leaders and make them kind of a core base of support. The military had been largely out of sight in politics in Brazil for the past three decades. So this was a pretty bold move, but actually one that captured people’s imagination as they longed for a system that was more orderly and more secure.michael barbaroSo this cranky, often outrageous character is starting to connect with people.ernesto londoñoAbsolutely.archived recording[CHANTING]ernesto londoñoHowever, I think it’s important to note that there were a couple of pretty crucial turning points that turbocharged his presidential bid.archived recordingBrazil’s former president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, is to stand trial for allegedly accepting over $1 million in bribes.ernesto londoñoEarly last year, former president Lula, who had been the front-runner according to opinion polls, and who was trying to make a bid for a third term in the presidential palace, got jailed. And after he gets jailed on corruption and money laundering charges, he essentially becomes disqualified, and his party is in disarray. And then you fast forward a few months, and in September of last year, there’s a very dramatic moment when, on the campaign trail, Bolsonaro is marching through the streets of a small town, surrounded by supporters. And a man lunges toward him with a big kitchen knife and stabs him in the stomach.archived recording[SIRENS] Jair Bolsonaro has been left in a serious but stable condition in hospital, this after being stabbed while drumming up support ahead of next month’s vote. Hospital officials say it could take two months for him to recover.ernesto londoñoHe was essentially knocked off the campaign trail for the remainder of the race. He was in a hospital bed, and then he was in his apartment, and communicating virtually only through social media.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoPeople, I think, saw in this moment the kind of violence that he was railing against in a really crystallized form. This incident that could have easily ended his life ended up propelling his bid.archived recording[CHANTING] The breaking news is the far-right candidate Jair Bolsonaro has won Brazil’s presidential race.ernesto londoñoAnd after this happens, in October, he has a decisive victory.michael barbaroAnd what is the reaction across Brazil to this victory?ernesto londoñoBrazil emerges from the election pretty polarized. Somebody who had been a very, very long shot for the presidency was able to not just win, but win decisively. However, you also have many communities in the country that feel extraordinarily unsafe in this new Brazil and that worry that the country under Bolsonaro’s watch could well transition into a new era of authoritarian rule.michael barbaroI wonder what Bolsonaro’s election means for Brazil, which, as you told us earlier, is just 30 years from having been a military dictatorship and turned to democracy and seems to have had a pretty rocky journey.ernesto londoñoI think it illustrates that many people, not just in Brazil but across Latin America, have become very cynical about democracy, at least the version of democracy they were seeing. Many Brazilians felt that they were being governed by thieves, who just kept getting elected by playing the old political playbook. And I think, in the specific case of Bolsonaro, who comes with a history of having championed authoritarian rule, of wanting to govern very closely with senior military leaders, the promise of order, even if it came at the price of a rollback of civil liberties and of democracy, it was a price many Brazilians were perfectly willing to pay.michael barbaroSo to change this system that seems to not be working, it feels like Brazilians want to shock the system and perhaps test its limits, which sounds a little bit like what’s going on in the United States.ernesto londoñoAbsolutely. When I talked to people on the campaign trail, you know, I was really startled by the level of anguish that they expressed and their willingness to take big risks on a leader who was untested and who comes with all these question marks.michael barbaroErnesto, thank you very much.ernesto londoñoThank you.michael barbaroJust weeks after his swearing in, when Bolsonaro vowed to, quote, “rid Brazil of corruption,” he faced charges that his own administration was engaging in more of the same. Brazilian prosecutors are investigating the mysterious movement of more than $300,000 in and out of bank accounts controlled by the driver of Bolsonaro’s oldest son, a state lawmaker, and why some of those payments went to Bolsonaro’s wife. At the same time, Bolsonaro has appointed three government ministers who were previously implicated in investigations of corruption.Mr. Bolsonaro has long been an apologist for the military dictatorship that ruled Brazil for more than two decades, but he was elected by an ample margin and Brazil is now very much a democracy.A former army captain who served for decades in the Brazilian congress, Mr. Bolsonaro vaulted onto the international scene by winning his country’s elections last year. He made his first international appearance as president when he attended the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January.At the White House on Tuesday, Mr. Bolsonaro pledged that the United States and Brazil would “stand side by side in their efforts to ensure liberties and respect to traditional family lifestyles, respect to God our creator against the gender ideology or the politically correct attitudes, and against fake news.”A few minutes later, Mr. Trump said he was “very proud to hear the president use the term ‘fake news.’”In an interview on Fox News on Monday night, Mr. Bolsonaro lashed out at the news media — much the way Mr. Trump often does — for what he said were inaccurate representations of his past statements about race and women, including having said at one point that “yes, I am homophobic — and very proud of it.”“If it were all that, I would not at all have been elected president,” Mr. Bolsonaro told Shannon Bream of Fox. “So there’s a great deal of fake news certainly around — the Brazilian population has after all learned how to use social media. And they no longer trust or believe the Brazilian mainstream media, which is virtually dominated by the left wing.”Mr. Bolsonaro insisted that “I have nothing against homosexuals or women — I’m not a xenophobe.”With Mr. Bolsonaro by his side at the White House, Mr. Trump lashed out at social media companies like Twitter and Facebook, accusing them of being “collusive” with his critics and discriminating against conservatives and Republicans. Reacting to a lawsuit filed against social media companies by Representative Devin Nunes, a California Republican and one of his supporters, Mr. Trump hinted that he was prepared to take action against what he called “unfair” practices by the companies.“Well, we have to do something, I tell you,” Mr. Trump said.“If they’re in a certain group, there’s discrimination and big discrimination,” he said. “I see it absolutely on Twitter and Facebook.” Mr. Trump also criticized television networks. “The incredible thing is that we can win an election and we have such a stacked deck, and that includes networks.”Mr. Trump and Mr. Bolsonaro said they discussed the future of Venezuela, and Mr. Trump praised his counterpart for Brazil’s humanitarian aid to Venezuela and support for Juan Guaidó, the self-declared interim president.Responding to a question about why sanctions by the United States have so far failed to force Nicolás Maduro, the Venezuela’s socialist leader, to surrender his grip on the presidency, Mr. Trump said that the United States had still not imposed the toughest sanctions possible.“We really haven’t done the really tough sanctions yet,” Mr. Trump said. “We can do the tough sanctions, and all options are open. We can go a lot tougher if we need to do that.”Earlier in the day, the Treasury Department imposed a new round of sanctions against Minerven, Venezuela’s state-owned gold-mining company and its president, Adrian Antonio Perdomo Mata, as part of its effort to increase pressure to the Maduro government. It accused Minerven of propping up Mr. Maduro through “illicit gold operations,” including paying independent miners for gold with “nearly worthless bolívars” to sustain the military.“The illegitimate Maduro regime is pillaging the wealth of Venezuela while imperiling indigenous people by encroaching on protected areas and causing deforestation and habitat loss,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said.Appearing with Mr. Bolsonaro in the Oval Office before their meeting, Mr. Trump said that he knew “exactly” what he wanted to happen in Venezuela, but he declined to say what that was. He said that all options were on the table, including the use of the military.Asked about the possibility of joining the United States in a potential military action against Venezuela, Mr. Bolsonaro declined to answer, saying that “these reserved issues, which may be discussed, if they have not yet, will not become public.”Mr. Bolsonaro’s visit to Washington received mixed reviews at home, where many Brazilians were outraged to hear him praise the Trump administration’s plan to build a wall along the Mexican border and say a majority of immigrants who head to the United States do not have “good intentions.”The satire website Sensacionalista mocked Mr. Bolsonaro for concessions announced during the trip: waiving the visa requirement for United States citizens visiting Brazil and agreeing to allow companies from the United States to launch commercial satellites from a base near the Equator.“In exchange for the use of our base and the visa exemption for Americans, the president will come home with a Trump baseball cap,” the article said.“It’s actually an incredible location when you study it, and when you see it,” Mr. Trump said on Tuesday, referring to the agreement Mr. Bolsonaro had announced allowing United States companies to launch satellites from a base in Alcantara, along the north coast of Brazil. “We won’t go into it now, but because of the location, tremendous amounts of money would be saved. To put it very simply, the flights are a lot shorter.”Brazil experts in the United States said the visit had gone well and would most likely establish a foundation for closer cooperation between the two largest economies in the Americas.“We can point to the removal of visa restrictions by Brazil on U.S. citizens as a signal that Brazil is working to reduce barriers to engagement,” said Roberta Braga, an associate director at the Atlantic Council’s Adrienne Arsht Latin America Center.Alan Rappeport contributed reporting from Washington, and Ernesto Londoño from Brazil.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe American and North Korean leaders’ delusions about getting the prize may improve their work on a nuclear deal. By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistAs President Trump and Kim Jong-un hold a summit meeting next week in Vietnam, they have something in common: Each apparently looks in the mirror and sees a Nobel Peace Prize winner.“If not for me, we would now be at War with North Korea!” Trump tweeted last summer. He seems to see his legacy in part as the great peacemaker of the Korean Peninsula and recently boasted that Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had nominated him for the Nobel Peace Prize.“Many other people feel that way, too,” Trump told reporters, as he spoke about the “beautiful” letter that Abe had written to nominate him.Abe, apparently mortified that his effort to stroke Trump had become public, refused to confirm this. And two leading Japanese newspapers, The Asahi Shimbun and The Yomiuri Shimbun, reported that Abe’s letter was written at the White House’s request.In surprising symmetry, North Korea is said to be abuzz with talk about the Nobel Peace Prize and the possibility that it could be awarded to Kim. The Kims are generally overachievers: Kim is said to have started driving at age 3, and his father had five holes-in-one in his first game of golf, not to mention a perfect score of 300 the first time he bowled.It is, of course, delusion to think that either Trump or Kim will win the Nobel Peace Prize, and in general it’s not a good thing for leaders to go into a summit delusional. Many security officials in the United States and abroad worry that in his quest for the prize, Trump might make some rash pledge, such as to withdraw American forces from South Korea.But delusions can be helpful if they make each side more willing to make concessions and pursue an arduous peace process. I don’t think there is any prospect of North Korea handing over its nuclear weapons soon, but it is possible to see a diplomatic path that leaves the world safer — and there’s a fighting chance that we might achieve this.Last year, Trump was bamboozled at his first meeting with Kim. There were minimal preparations, and Trump made major concessions such as suspending military exercises in exchange for nothing as significant.Trump compounded his diplomatic ineptitude with rhetorical grandiosity. He tweeted, “There is no longer a Nuclear Threat from North Korea,” and he later asserted that Kim had sent him “beautiful letters” and “we fell in love.”In fact, the North Korean threat remained. Indeed, North Korea has apparently continued to produce nuclear fuel and operate its missile bases. American intelligence officials bluntly told a Senate committee this year that North Korea is unlikely to denuclearize.Yet if Trump was hoodwinked last year, there are some more hopeful signs this time. He has appointed a well-respected special envoy, Stephen Biegun, and both Biegun and Trump have been signaling that they are now realistic about trade-offs and a timeline, with Trump saying that North Korea will denuclearize “ultimately” and that “I’m in no rush.”Here’s what a plausible deal might look like.North Korea would promise to dismantle its Yongbyon nuclear complex and a couple of less important sites, admit international inspectors and continue its moratorium on nuclear and missile tests. In exchange, the United States would relax sanctions on inter-Korean projects involving tourism and manufacturing. The two sides could also declare that the Korean War has ended, exchange diplomatic liaison offices, ease cultural exchanges and agree on a path forward chipping away at the nuclear program.In some sense this is Kabuki. On my last visit to North Korea, in 2017, officials spoke of learning from Libya that if you give up your nuclear program, America may then topple your government. So I suspect Kim has zero plans to give up his nuclear weapons.But even without full denuclearization, it is progress if there is a freeze on testing, a halt to nuclear production, an easing of tensions and an agreement on future steps. When an American crossed into North Korea from China last fall, the North Koreans expelled him rather than imprisoned him as a bargaining chip. The United States has likewise eased rules on humanitarian aid to North Korea. Trump and Kim may claim some magical breakthrough, perhaps around a declaration of the end of the Korean War. But don’t believe any magic. This is not a problem that will be solved this month or this year.At its best, this will be a slog. We should pray that U.S.-North Korea relations become boring.The greatest threat of this presidency was that Trump would stumble into a nuclear war, and in 2017 and 2018 the Pentagon was deeply concerned that this was a risk with Trump-Kim brinkmanship and Trump’s boast that his nuclear button was bigger than Kim’s.If he and Kim pursue a painstaking peace process instead, in some illusory quest for a Nobel Peace Prize, we can live with that.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.  @NickKristof • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders are dubious about President Trump’s claim, pointing to climate change and gun violence as among the real emergencies.To the Editor:Re “Trump Declares National Emergency to Build Border Wall” (nytimes.com, Feb. 15):If some migrant workers and asylum seekers illegally crossing the southern border constitute a “national emergency,” then what to think of the tens of thousands of Americans lost to gun violence each year, the growing number of Americans without access to affordable health insurance and the existential threat of our increasingly extreme climate?If Republicans in Congress do not immediately rebuke this reckless and unconstitutional subversion of Congress’s own power of the purse, and if the increasingly partisan federal judiciary signs off on this obvious abuse of authority, then a dangerous precedent has indeed been set.And in that case, I very much look forward to a Democratic president declaring a state of emergency to ban assault weapons after the next school shooting, to create a universal Medicare opt-in for the uninsured, and to impose a large-scale reordering of our fossil fuel-based economy after the next devastating wildfires or hurricanes.Republicans will rue this latest capitulation to this lawless president — yet perhaps the country will come to be better off for it.Nikhil SinghShelton, Conn.To the Editor:How much waste of time, money and energy is it going to take for this country to come to its senses and demand that President Trump and Congress get serious about the business of government?Mr. Trump has conjured up a national emergency where none exists and has tied the entire country in knots for months over a useless wall he wants to build on our southern border to protect us from imaginary threats. Meanwhile, nothing is being done about the issues that will eventually have real consequences for the country.If this isn’t dereliction of duty, I don’t know what is.Stuart MathNew YorkTo the Editor:To paraphrase that famous quote: First the president came for the Justice Department, but the Republicans in Congress did not speak out because they were not part of the Justice Department. Then the president came for the free press, but the Republicans in Congress did not speak out because they were not journalists.And now the president has come for you, Congress. He means to usurp your power over appropriations — the most fundamental constitutional power granted to you by the framers. Will you leave it to the courts to defend your prerogatives — hoping that there are still some judges and Supreme Court justices left who are free of Trumpian influence? Or will you finally, finally speak out for yourselves, forcefully and with one unified voice? Nancy StarkNew YorkTo the Editor:There is no better demonstration of President Trump’s failure at leadership and governance than his reliance on his emergency declaration powers in order to assemble the funds necessary to build his wall.I am reminded of the spoiled kid who resolves to take his ball home because he can’t win the game by playing by the rules — in this case, our constitutional separation of powers. Of course, it is his teammates — the Republicans in Congress — who stand to lose the most because they are no longer in the ballgame. They have kowtowed to their neighborhood bully once too often and may as well go home themselves.If Mr. Trump’s border wall truly had merit, the case to be made would be straightforward. Instead we have a president who must desperately make stuff up to stay in a game that he doesn’t know how to play.Don KruppSan DiegoTo the Editor:Senator Marco Rubio says, “If today the national emergency is border security, tomorrow the national emergency might be climate change.” Conflating a fabricated emergency with a true emergency not only fails to make his point but also shows that Mr. Rubio does not consider climate change urgent.Michael EttingerRhinebeck, N.Y. To the Editor:The real national emergency is that Donald Trump believes he is an autocrat and subject to neither constitutional restraints nor existing law. Arthur Bradley Eisenbrey IIIGrosse Pointe Woods, Mich.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byletterThe president of Physicians for Social Responsibility Los Angeles says the New Cold War has officially begun.To the Editor:Re “No Winner in a New Arms Race” (editorial, Feb. 11): With the Trump administration’s suspension of the landmark Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, the New Cold War has officially begun. Climate science predicts catastrophic global effects from even a limited nuclear war, resulting in a nuclear famine killing up to a quarter of the global population with no adequate humanitarian or medical response. There are no winners in nuclear war. The critical missing ingredient is diplomacy, with engagement of all nuclear states to build trust toward verifiable reductions, ultimately joining the nonnuclear countries as they work to bring into force the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.It is time to join the chorus of scientific and religious authorities and municipalities in their demand to step back from the brink.Robert DodgeVentura, Calif.The writer, a family physician, is president of Physicians for Social Responsibility Los Angeles and co-chairman of its Committee to Abolish Nuclear Weapons.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Katie RogersWASHINGTON — He prefers Sharpies over email. His aides cart around cardboard boxes of work papers — not laptops — for him to sift through on Air Force One. On pressing technology matters, including drones at the border, clean energy and, most recently, the evolution of airplane engineering, he prefers a nonscientific approach.In short, President Trump often operates on the theory that older is better.“Airplanes are becoming far too complex to fly,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter on Tuesday, sharing his views on the still-unconfirmed cause of an Ethiopian Airlines plane crash last weekend that killed all 157 people on board. “Pilots are no longer needed, but rather computer scientists from MIT. I see it all the time in many products. Always seeking to go one unnecessary step further, when often old and simpler is far better.”At a time when experts are citing a serious need to bolster the nation’s infrastructure and science initiatives to remain globally competitive, Mr. Trump has long used partisan language to encourage his supporters to follow him in embracing a 1950s Rockwellian approach to technology.In his continuing crusade to build a wall along the country’s southwestern border, for instance, Mr. Trump dismissed the idea of drones to secure the border. He wanted a wall, an ancient technology he has said never fails, much like its Mesopotamian cousin, the wheel.“The fact is there is nothing else’s that will work,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter in December, “and that has been true for thousands of years. It’s like the wheel, there is nothing better.”Mr. Trump added, “I know tech better than anyone.”But it is a tactic that current and former administration officials said overshadowed efforts that in any other universe would look a lot like bipartisanship: Mr. Trump, they say, has privately committed to expansions of several technological initiatives that were hatched in the Obama White House, including revamping the government’s technology system and digitizing health care records.Not that this is evident when Mr. Trump addresses the public. He tends to frame the willingness to embrace technology as a partisan issue, which his fans lap up. His mocking examination of wind power led to laughter from a crowd at the Conservative Political Action Conference this month.“When the wind stops blowing, that’s the end of your electric,” Mr. Trump said before mimicking a man trying to watch TV: “‘Darling, is the wind blowing today? I’d like to watch television, darling.’”His theatrical approach tends to dazzle fans, but it has alarmed experts who worry that the president’s analog behavior has failed to signal to Americans which technological ideas they should be excited about — or which they should be worried about — as global competitors, including China, pour money into technology initiatives like the race to master artificial intelligence.“It doesn’t put the best face forward for the United States to have a president talking that way,” Darrell West, the director of the Center for Technology Innovation at the Brookings Institution, said in an interview. “It makes us look like we’re not a scientifically literate country.”Cristin Dorgelo, who was chief of staff in the White House’s Office of Science and Technology Policy under President Barack Obama, said a commander in chief was supposed to be the nation’s most effective intermediary between the public and the science and technology communities.Mr. Obama, she pointed out, edited an issue of Wired magazine and was notorious for imbibing detailed memorandums on technology policy.“I think that we have a problem where there are people doing good work inside of the building to advance policy on technology issues,” Ms. Dorgelo said, “but a president who at the same time does not ground his remarks about science and technology in fact and in evidence.”It’s not as if Mr. Trump dismisses all technology in his public life. He likes hobnobbing with technology executives at the White House, like Tim Cook of Apple (although he called him “Tim Apple”), and has masterfully re-engineered the presidential Twitter account to serve as his e-bully pulpit. Aides say he is also adept at using his DVR systems to record television shows. Mr. Trump, after all, believes TiVo is “one of the great inventions of all time.” Mr. Trump has also used an executive order to establish a national strategy for artificial intelligence and another to develop a strategy to lead the world in fifth-generation, or 5G, cellular networks. (Mr. Trump remarked recently on Twitter that 6G would be even better.)“The Trump administration has been laser-focused on an ambitious national tech policy agenda that drives innovation and American leadership in emerging technologies like artificial intelligence, 5G networks and quantum computing,” Michael Kratsios, the deputy assistant to the president for technology policy, said in a statement. “The president cares deeply about ensuring these technologies are developed by American innovators, built by American workers and reflect American values and priorities.”Some experts are concerned that the commitment is little more than lip service. Mr. West, from Brookings, said the White House established an A.I. policy a year and a half after China announced that it planned to create an A.I. industry worth $150 billion to its economy by 2030.“It’s too little, too late,” Mr. West said. “If you’re not funding a major initiative, agencies are not going to take it seriously.”But Aneesh Chopra, who was Mr. Obama’s chief technology officer, said in an interview that in other matters there was a “surprising alignment on a number of key areas” where the Trump White House has worked to expand a blueprint left by predecessors.“I may strongly disagree with the president’s views of health care reform,” Mr. Chopra said, “but I am pleased with the president’s commitment to build on progress on the long-term technical foundation of what we refer to as a health care internet.”Mr. Chopra and several of the president’s aides credited Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, with pushing Mr. Trump to recognize the importance of some of those efforts.A key to getting Mr. Trump to respond to technological efforts, several of his advisers said, is to frame the pitch in cost-saving and customer-service terms. During a 2017 meeting to get him on board with revamping government technology systems, a project Mr. Kushner championed after helping establish the Office of American Innovation, aides said they told Mr. Trump the effort could save billions.After asking his aides what Americans would see if the systems to apply for farming loans or veterans health care benefits were redesigned, Mr. Trump eventually approved the effort. But Mr. Trump said at the time that he knew he would never get credit for it, according to two people familiar with his remarks.After all, this is the same president who said the Navy should get rid of an electromagnetic catapult system on a new aircraft carrier and replace it with an old one that used steam.“They have digital,” Mr. Trump told Time magazine in 2017. “What is digital? And it’s very complicated; you have to be Albert Einstein to figure it out.” The Navy, Mr. Trump said, told him it had to stay with digital. “I said, ‘No you’re not,’” Mr. Trump recounted. He added that the Navy had to switch to “goddamned steam; the digital costs hundreds of millions of dollars more money, and it’s no good.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy William K. Rashbaum and Benjamin WeiserPaul J. Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, is now in the sights of the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., whose office is set to bring charges against him. A federal jury in Virginia already convicted Mr. Manafort in a financial fraud scheme that could send him to prison for decades, and he has pleaded guilty in Washington to other federal charges.But Mr. Vance’s prosecutors, who are said to be preparing charges to try to ensure that Mr. Manafort faces prison even if he is pardoned by the president, will most likely face a pitched legal battle and a political firefight.A federal jury in August convicted Mr. Manafort of using foreign accounts to hide millions of dollars from his political consulting work in Ukraine, tax fraud and of lying to banks to obtain millions of dollars in loans. State charges, which would be brought by Mr. Vance, would be based on some of those same loans, which were issued by Citizens Bank in Rhode Island and Federal Savings Bank in Chicago, according to people with knowledge of the matter.Mr. Manafort’s lawyers are almost certain to challenge any state charges on grounds of double jeopardy, and Mr. Vance, a left-leaning district attorney in a blue state, could face the inevitable accusation that his prosecution of a member of Mr. Trump’s inner circle is politically motivated.Here is how this may play out.Put simply, it is the legal principle that a defendant may not be prosecuted twice for the same crime. This tenet of American jurisprudence is enshrined in the United States Constitution. The Fifth Amendment states: No person shall be “subject for the same offense to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb.”New York State law provides even stronger protections against double jeopardy. But some exceptions exist. Double jeopardy applies once a jury is sworn in a criminal case, whether the defendant is convicted or acquitted. However, juries sometimes cannot decide on a verdict on a particular charge, which is what happened with several counts in Mr. Manafort’s federal case in Virginia. That could leave the door open for Mr. Vance’s office to pursue state charges — such as falsifying business records or mortgage fraud — in those instances.“I don’t imagine when presented with someone whose career is alleged to have been as varied and crooked as Manafort’s, the D.A.’s office would have to stretch itself to find conduct that could be charged without violating New York’s double jeopardy provisions,” said Daniel C. Richman, a Columbia Law School professor.No. The United States Constitution confers broad authority on the president to issue pardons in federal cases. Indeed, the president can even pardon people before they are charged or convicted of a federal crime, although such actions are rare. (President Gerald Ford pardoned his predecessor, Richard M. Nixon, after Watergate, and President Jimmy Carter pardoned Vietnam draft evaders.) But the president has no power to do so in connection with state crimes.President Trump has repeatedly characterized Mr. Manafort as a “brave man,” and indicated that he had not ruled out pardoning his former top campaign official.“It was never discussed, but I wouldn’t take it off the table,” Mr. Trump said in November in an Oval Office interview with The New York Post. “Why would I take it off the table?” the president added.In the interview, Mr. Trump also likened the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, whose office brought charges against Mr. Manafort, to McCarthyism. “This is no better than McCarthy,” the president said, adding, “It’s a terrible thing.”Beyond the legal battle that would follow any charges against Mr. Manafort in New York, there could be political fallout.Mr. Vance’s taking aim at a member of the president’s inner circle, whether he has been pardoned or not, could play into the narrative that the president and his allies have been subjected to partisan persecution — in the president’s words, a “witch hunt.”For Mr. Vance, the decision to prosecute Mr. Manafort would play out before a very different audience. “I assume Vance is motivated in part by political considerations — his constituents expect him to do this,” said Stephen Gillers, a professor at New York University School of Law.“There’s nothing wrong with that, as long as he’s not doing it only for that reason. He has to also believe it’s the right thing to do,” Professor Gillers said.The case against Mr. Manafort also offers Mr. Vance something of an opportunity for redemption. He came under heavy criticism for failing to bring charges against Mr. Trump’s eldest children, Ivanka and Donald Jr., after an investigation into allegations they had lied to buyers of units at the Trump SoHo, a 46-story luxury condominium-hotel in Lower Manhattan. Mr. Vance defended his handling of the inquiry, saying he ended it largely because the victims would not cooperate with prosecutors after they reached a civil settlement with the Trumps and their business partners.Mr. Vance’s office began building the case in order to ensure that Mr. Manafort would still be held accountable for his crimes, even if the president pardoned him for his federal convictions. But the district attorney’s office is expected to seek charges and prosecute the case against Mr. Manafort regardless of whether Mr. Trump issues a pardon.If no pardon is issued and Mr. Manafort is convicted on state charges, he almost certainly would serve a state prison sentence at the same time as his federal term. Mr. Manafort, 69, has not yet been sentenced on the federal charges.Paradoxically, one legal expert suggested, Mr. Manafort might find himself in a position where a federal pardon portends a far more unpleasant outcome — the prospect of serving time in a New York State institution, where prison life is far more dangerous, dirty and grim.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWhat this country needs is a president who knows how to default.By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistDepartment of Irony: Republicans can’t stop howling about socialism. But nobody makes capitalism look worse than Donald Trump.The president’s party is trying to set up the 2020 election as a war against the S-word. “America will never be a socialist country,” Trump announced in his last State of the Union speech. At a big gathering of conservatives, Mike Pence warned that “Medicare for all” and the Green New Deal were “the same tired economic theories that have impoverished nations … over the past century. That system is socialism.”There have certainly been socialist disaster cases around the world, although the Republican definition seems to include everyplace that has universal health coverage. But the magic of the marketplace can get you into plenty of trouble, too. For a good example of when the system doesn’t work, just look at Trump’s relationship with Deutsche Bank, which has given him about $2 billion in loans over the years. Two billion dollars to a guy whose major financial talent seems to be defaulting.The Times’s David Enrich took us through the story this week. It starts in the late 1990s when Deutsche Bank was a kind of minor league player who wanted to be cool and get into U.S. commercial real estate lending in a big way. Where better to start than Trump? He owned stuff.Well, at least sort of. Earlier in the decade he had been in such bad shape I felt compelled to refer to him as a “financially embattled thousandaire.” Trump sent me a copy of that column with an arrow pointing to my picture, on which he had written “the face of a pig.” I’ve recounted that story many times in the past, but it’s always sort of fun.About Deutsche Bank. Trump wanted to borrow $125 million to renovate a building on Wall Street. In theory, the laws of self-interest would have caused officials to look very carefully at their new client’s financial history to make sure he was going to pay back everything he borrowed.And what did they see? Well, at that point Trump was a host of WrestleMania and a frequent guest of the Howard Stern radio show, in which he would talk with his host about, um, dames.And he had gotten famous for not paying back loans. But what the hell. The Deutschebankers said yes. Maybe they had read “The Art of the Deal” without noticing that it was clearly written by somebody else.The longer Trump hung around with Deutsche Bank, the more beloved a customer he became. He was such a good … borrower. “What’s that old adage — if you owe a bank $10,000, the bank owns you. But if you owe the bank $10 million, you own the bank,” mused Aaron Klein, a fellow in economic studies at the Brookings Institution.In 2003, when Trump wanted to borrow another wad of cash, Deutsche Bank invited potential bond investors to come in and hear his pitch. Tons of people responded. The problem, as Enrich reports, was that the vast majority just wanted to get a glimpse of a celebrity and had no plans on entrusting him with their money.See? Sometimes the system works. However, eventually, the bankers did manage to find some buyers. After which Trump defaulted.And back again! Deutsche Bank gave him a $640 million loan for a skyscraper he wanted to build in Chicago. The bankers must have been nervous, but Trump made a great sales pitch — he even promised to put Ivanka in charge of the project.Think about this. What was Ivanka’s best-known project to date? Jared.At this point the bank did a review of Trump’s claim that he was worth about $3 billion and discovered it was more like $788 million.But hey. He’s friends with Mike Tyson.The skyscraper got built, but nobody seemed to want to live there. Trump, who had personally guaranteed $40 million of the loan, then went to court, pointing to a clause in the contract that said he wouldn’t have to cough up the money in the event of a natural disaster. And what about the recession? Was that a natural disaster or what?Onward. More loans from Deutsche Bank. Some of which he used to pay back … Deutsche Bank. Nobody seemed to think that was crazy.So, what’s the problem here? Anat Admati, a professor at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, said she found it shocking that “a corporation the size and complexity of Deutsche Bank is so poorly governed.”The bank, however, didn’t run for president on the basis of its financial genius. Trump did, and it worked so well he is now running around making speeches about reducing business regulation.Deutsche Bank, which had done so much to make him look like a financial titan over the years, was a little stunned by the election. The whole world was going to notice what a bad business risk this guy had been. How had the bank come to be his top underwriter?Bring on the integrity committee! A Deutsche Bank investigation determined that its private-banking division really, really liked doing business with famous people and was prepared to overlook pretty much everything else.Is that a great economic model or what? Eat your heart out, socialist countries. We’ve got Donald Trump.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist and a former member of the editorial board, and was the first woman to serve as the Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWe get a look at his transcript on trade policy. It’s not pretty.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.It’s a neat microcosm of President Trump’s economic policy: He picks a yardstick to measure the American economy — the trade deficit — that’s mostly meaningless. He spends years criticizing it as too high and promising to reduce it. And under his administration, it surges.“By just about any measure you pick,” Slate’s Jordan Weissmann writes, “his effort appears to have been an absolute flop.”“He set out to fix a non-problem (a trade deficit) and created real ones including international conflict, higher consumer prices and gross inefficiency in our economy,” The Washington Post’s Jennifer Rubin writes.Left v. center-left, continuedPaul Krugman, writing on Twitter, offers his take on Brad DeLong’s recent writings on the rise of left-wing Democrats and their economic proposals. Paul argues that the newly ascendant left — personified by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez — plays a productive role on labor policy, fiscal policy and climate policy but a self-defeating role on health care policy. I largely agree.On labor: Democrats should indeed put more emphasis on increasing workers’ bargaining power than they have in recent years.On the budget: Democrats have been the party of fiscal responsibility for a quarter-century now, and they have earned little political credit for it. Bond markets also don’t seem worried about the deficit or national debt. So there are multiple reasons for Democrats to prioritize other issues — like lifting living standards — over deficit reduction.On climate: This is one place I’d be somewhat more critical than Paul. The Green New Deal — that is, simultaneously addressing climate change and trying to create good-paying jobs — is a great concept. But the rollout was needlessly sloppy, and the substance was weaker than it should have been.On health care: An ambitious Medicare expansion makes all kinds of sense. But mandatory Medicare for All, with the elimination of private insurance, is a pipe dream. The country has too many important challenges for the next Democratic president to make single-payer health care — as opposed to universal health care — the No. 1 priority.“Single payer is not, in itself, a principle,” as Harold Pollack, the health care expert, recently wrote in the journal Democracy. “The end — the core principle at stake — is universality. A wealthy and humane democracy must provide decent health coverage to everyone — coverage that actually works to prevent and treat serious illness, injury, and disability. On this principle, progressives are in total agreement.”And speaking of my colleague Paul Krugman: He is starting his own weekly newsletter, and you can sign up for it here.The little onesElizabeth Warren’s proposal for universal child care has brought some needed attention to the topic. On this week’s episode of “The Argument,” I debate it with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and the editorial board’s Mara Gay. I think universal child care is an excellent and important idea, but I’d broaden the program to help working-class parents who want to stay home with young children. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie Rogers and Ben HubbardWASHINGTON — President Trump said on Wednesday that the last territory in Syria held by the Islamic State would be “gone by tonight,” despite reports of continuing fighting between the extremist group and American-backed local forces in Syria.It was the second time over the last month that Mr. Trump was ready to declare the liberation of the extremists’ self-declared caliphate — an area once roughly the size of Britain — across Iraq and Syria. In February, at a military base in Alaska, he said the Islamic State’s territory in Syria had been “100 percent” reclaimed; the group no longer controls land in neighboring Iraq.In Syria, officials with the American-backed Syrian Democratic Forces near the last pocket of extremist-controlled territory said on Wednesday that a group of Islamic State fighters still controlled a sliver of land along the eastern bank of the Euphrates River, where they were holed up with women and children.As long as that area was still under the Islamic State’s control, “it would be weird to expect an announcement in the next day,” said a Syrian Democratic Forces official, who was not authorized to respond to Mr. Trump’s comments and spoke on the condition of anonymity.Mr. Trump, speaking to reporters before leaving the White House for a trip to Ohio, sought to prove that his earlier assertion had been correct — or close to it. He brandished two maps showing before-and-after snapshots of Islamic State territory that he said proved that his administration had done more to eradicate the extremists than President Barack Obama had.“This is ISIS on Election Day,” Mr. Trump said to reporters, pointing to one map, marked with red splotches that he said represented territory held by the extremists. “When I took it over, it was a mess.”Then he pointed to what he said was a Trump administration map, which he said was updated only 20 minutes earlier, with a red mark that indicated one small Islamic State-held village on the verge of collapse: “There’s actually a tiny spot which will be gone by tonight.”For weeks, the Islamic State’s remaining territory consisted of the village of Baghuz, where fighting raged on and off and tens of thousands of fighters, women and children surrendered and were taken to prisons and crowded refugee camps. The Syrian Democratic Forces recently pushed the last remaining fighters out of the village, leaving them only the sliver of territory by the river. It remains unclear how many people, both fighters and civilians, are there.The Trump administration has been eager to announce the eradication of the militant group, even as concerns over its influence grow in other regions of the world.[Read more on the president’s earlier declaration that ISIS is defeated and the differing views on his statement.]Earlier this week, Abu Hassan al-Muhajir, the Islamic State’s spokesman, belittled the White House’s claim of victory over the terrorist organization. In a 44-minute taped speech after the deadly mosque shootings in New Zealand, Mr. al-Muhajir said the Trump administration had created a “state of confusion and contradiction that make it impossible for any observer to know what is meant by the word ‘victory.’”Mr. Trump also reaffirmed on Wednesday that 400 American troops would remain in Syria, in part to ensure that the Islamic State does not resurge. He also said some American forces would be based in an area of Syria that was “closer to Israel for a period of time” but did not elaborate. His comments came as Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was meeting in Jerusalem with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel.In December, Mr. Trump declared he would immediately withdraw the 2,000 American troops in Syria in an announcement that prompted the swift resignations of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and Brett McGurk, the special presidential envoy to the coalition fighting the Islamic State. The decision was also roundly criticized by allies worldwide and the Syrian Democratic Forces, which have proved to be the most effective ground force against the Islamic State.The Trump administration has since walked back the president’s initial withdrawal announcement.Katie Rogers reported from Washington, and Ben Hubbard from Erbil, Iraq.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe president was right to walk rather than accept a bad deal, but look out ahead.By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistPresident Trump was right to walk away from his summit with Kim Jong-un rather than accept a bad nuclear agreement, but the outcome underscores that he was bamboozled last year at his first summit with Kim. Whatever genius Trump sees in the mirror, “the art of the deal” is not his thing.At this meeting, Kim apparently sought a full end to sanctions on North Korea in exchange for closing only some nuclear sites. That was not a good deal, and Trump was right to walk rather than accept it.“Basically they wanted the sanctions lifted in their entirety, but we couldn’t do that,” Trump said, adding: “Sometimes you have to walk.”President Reagan famously marched out of a 1986 summit in Reykjavik, Iceland, rather than accept an arms control agreement with Russia that he regarded as flawed. A year later the Russians returned with better terms and a deal was made — and we can all hope that something similar will happen this time.[Follow Nicholas Kristof as he travels around the United States and the world, shedding light on crises and hailing unsung heroes. For a behind-the-scenes look at Nick’s gritty journalism, sign up for his newsletter.]Still, there are significant risks ahead. The most important is that North Korea may return to testing nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, for that would mark a huge escalation of tensions and renewed concerns about brinkmanship and war.Unfortunately, North Korea is an otherwise unimportant country that gets attention only when it behaves provocatively. So its leaders have learned that their best leverage is to fire missiles, detonate warheads, or start up nuclear complexes.While Trump was right to walk in this case, he also seems to have played his hand poorly in the run-up to the summit. In particular, he signaled that he eagerly wanted a deal and that “fantastic success” was likely, all of which probably led Kim to raise demands in the belief that Trump would fold.With normal presidents, summit deals are largely agreed upon ahead of time. As one veteran diplomat put it, presidents pull rabbits out of hats, after diplomats have worked diligently ahead of time to stuff the rabbits into the hats. But Trump has never had much patience for that meticulous diplomatic process, instead placing excessive faith in breakthroughs arising from personal relationships — and his faith was clearly misplaced this time.The North Korean side had refused to hash out the summit outcome in advance with the highly regarded U.S. special envoy, Stephen Biegun, presumably because Kim thought that he could outfox Trump in person in Hanoi the way he had in Singapore nine months ago.The collapse of the latest talks also underscores how misguided Trump was at that earlier meeting. He didn’t understand that Kim uses “denuclearization” to mean something different than the meaning in the United States, and he gave Kim the enormous gift of legitimacy that comes with a summit, without getting anything comparable in return.It is also distasteful to see Trump praising Kim and referring to him as “my friend” and a “great leader,” and, last year, asserting that Kim had sent him “beautiful letters” and that “we fell in love.” It’s perfectly appropriate to engage with ruthless dictators, but fawning over them is a betrayal of our values.In Vietnam, Trump might also have shown Kim what freedom of the press looks like. Instead, the White House barred four American reporters from a dinner after two of them had shouted questions for Trump.Still, if the risk is of a return to high tensions ahead, it’s also possible to foresee a path that over time does make progress with North Korea. I tend to agree with skeptics who believe that Kim has zero intention of ever giving up his nuclear weapons stockpile — that’s what North Koreans told me on my last visit to the country in 2017 — but there is still room for diplomacy that leaves the world better off.In particular, Kim seems willing to reach a bargain on continuing his moratorium on testing warheads and missiles and on freezing production of nuclear fuel at his complex on Yongbyon, and those are worthy goals if the price is not too high. A reasonable price would be relaxation of sanctions on inter-Korean projects, such as South Korean manufacturing, tourism and rail projects in North Korea.Those inter-Korean initiatives also have value in that they may over time help normalize North Korea, give it a stake in the outside world, and undermine the regime’s authority.That kind of limited deal should be an aim of diplomacy going forward, and South Korean President Moon Jae-in — who helped start the peace process between North Korea and the West — is well placed to pursue it, with American backing.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.  @NickKristof • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe president prepares for more denuclearization talks with Kim Jong-un.By HengHeng Kim Song is an editorial cartoonist.President Trump and North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, are set to meet again in Hanoi, Vietnam, starting on Wednesday.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byletterStrobe Talbott, a former deputy secretary of state, takes issue with the president’s withdrawal from a nuclear weapons treaty.To the Editor:Re “How Russia Undermined a Treaty” (Op-Ed, Feb. 13):Kay Bailey Hutchison’s rationale for the Trump administration’s pre-emptive withdrawal from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty weighs heavily on Russia’s deployment of a new generation of missiles in violation of the 30-year-old pact.For more than half a century, when the superpowers exchanged such accusations, they would return to the negotiating table and try to resolve the dispute. When Western intelligence discovered in the 1980s that the Soviets were building a giant radar in Siberia not allowed under the Antiballistic Missile Treaty, the George H.W. Bush administration resorted to diplomacy and persuaded the Kremlin not to build it, keeping the regulation of strategic weapons stable.Russia, under Vladimir V. Putin, has pushed ahead with formidable offensive weapons. President Trump seems to be determined for a shutdown of arms control altogether. History will frown on this mistake, and so will the future.Strobe TalbottWashingtonThe writer was deputy secretary of state in the Clinton administration.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe president, channeling his hero Andrew Jackson, continues to champion a particularly virulent form of reactionary white majoritarianism.By Jamelle BouieOpinion ColumnistOn Saturday, after Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts formally announced her campaign to oust President Trump from the White House, he took aim at her on Twitter.“Today, Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President,” he said, making a strange, meta-textual reference to his previous tweets before launching into his usual mockery of Ms. Warren’s claims to Native heritage. “Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz.”Most observers took “trail” as a deliberate reference to the “Trail of Tears,” the forced relocation throughout the 1830s of several southeastern Native American tribes from their ancestral lands to what would become northeastern Oklahoma. The strongest evidence for this reading is the reaction from supporters. One pro-Trump tweeter directly mentioned the “Native American genocide.” Trump’s oldest son shared similar comments, calling the jab “savage.”Lying behind all this is Trump’s fascination with Andrew Jackson. Jackson’s portrait hangs in the Oval Office. He seems to be a figure of admiration for a president who otherwise ignores history. “Inspirational visit, I have to tell you,” Trump said, when he visited Jackson’s mansion in Nashville. “I’m a fan.” We don’t need further evidence of Trump’s cruelty or racism. But there are moments in his rhetorical flourishes when those qualities come into clear view. At those times it’s worth focusing on his comments, not as fodder for self-satisfied moral condemnation, but to have a better understanding of the ideas and pathologies he channels and brings to the surface of the national conversation. To that end, his expressions of anti-Native racism are worth a closer look.As an army general, Roxanne Dunbar-Ortiz writes in “An Indigenous Peoples’ History of the United States,” Jackson “led four wars of aggression” against Native tribes in Georgia and Florida. As president, he won passage of the 1830 Indian Removal Act and subsequently “engineered the expulsion of all Native peoples east of the Mississippi to the designated ‘Indian Territory,’” forcing some 70,000 people off their land.This isn’t the first time the president has made light of violence inflicted on Native peoples. “If Elizabeth Warren, often referred to by me as Pocahontas, did this commercial from Bighorn or Wounded Knee instead of her kitchen, with her husband dressed in full Indian garb, it would have been a smash!,” he said last month, attacking one of Warren’s videos on Instagram with another oddly self-referential tweet.It’s tempting to dismiss these comments as “Trump being Trump” — unworthy of additional attention or heightened scrutiny. But the substance of these particular references makes that calculus untenable. Wounded Knee Creek in South Dakota was, in December 1890, the site of one of the deadliest attacks on Native Americans by United States military forces. As many as 300 people were killed, in a massacre that continues to weigh on the memories of many American Indian communities. The Battle of Little Bighorn in 1876 was an attempted eviction of Native tribes in present-day Montana, led by Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer. Outnumbered by Lakota and Cheyenne warriors, Custer and over 200 of his soldiers were killed in a battle that was memorialized as “Custer’s Last Stand.”The Trail of Tears began with white American settlers claiming Cherokee and other tribal lands as their own, federal officials coercing tribal leaders into ceding their territory and the United States Army removing the tribes by force. During the infamous forced march of Cherokee people in 1838, harsh winter weather and poor conditions in detention camps led to an estimated death toll of 4,000 people out of the 12,000 expelled from their homes. Other tribes suffered similar death rates in their forced deportations.When Trump jabs at Warren with “Pocahontas,” he’s using the name as an anti-Native caricature. But when he uses Wounded Knee or the Trail of Tears in his attacks, he’s grossly trivializing this nation’s history of genocidal violence against Native Americans, as if there aren’t still millions of indigenous people living in the United States facing continued discrimination and disadvantage.Like his attacks on prominent African-Americans or his xenophobic smears of Hispanic immigrants, the president’s jokes about these shameful moments in American history are both a performance of racial contempt and an atavistic expression of white supremacist ideology. It’s those comments — more so than his election night promise to represent “the forgotten man” — that forge whatever resemblance Trump has to Andrew Jackson.It was Jackson who first championed reactionary white majoritarianism, Jackson who shepherded this country toward a mass democracy so tied to chattel slavery, settler colonialism and white supremacy that we still struggle to disentangle ourselves from their legacies.Jackson, himself a frontier planter and slave owner, embodied these ideas as he carried them forward. The same is true for Trump, who similarly embodies the drive to preserve hierarchies of race, gender and national origin even as they degrade life for most Americans, including many who think they benefit from them.All of this gives additional meaning to the president’s much-invoked slogan. He will “make America great again” by reveling in its most shameful actions and miring it in its worst impulses.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Jamelle Bouie became a New York Times Opinion columnist in 2019. Before that he was the chief political correspondent for Slate magazine. He is based in Charlottesville, Va., and Washington.  @jbouie Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byHe’s not an institutionalist. He’s the man who surrendered the Senate to the president.By Adam JentlesonMr. Jentleson is a former deputy chief of staff to retired Senator Harry Reid. Among the casualties of President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency to build his border wall is the reputation of the majority leader Mitch McConnell as a Senate institutionalist. The evidence of the last few days has confirmed, if there were still any doubt, that he is no such thing. First, he helped prolong the longest government shutdown in American history by insisting that the Senate would act only with explicit approval from the president. Now Mr. McConnell has fully acquiesced in President Trump’s power grab by supporting an emergency declaration, which he opposed just weeks before, aimed at addressing a crisis that Senate Republicans know does not exist. This display of obedience from the leader of a supposedly coequal branch of government is shocking only if you ever believed Mr. McConnell was an institutionalist. But his defining characteristic has always been his willingness to do anything and sacrifice any principle to amass power for himself. What separates him from the garden-variety politicians — what makes him a radical — are the lengths he is willing to go. Seeing this with clarity should help us grasp the danger to which he is subjecting the Senate — and, more important, our democracy.The signs of Mr. McConnell’s malign influence were always there. Before he became a Senate leader, he dedicated himself to opening the floodgates for corporate money to flow into our political system. Mr. McConnell chased the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform law all the way to the Supreme Court; the 2003 challenge to the law bears his name. Mr. McConnell lost that one, but his cause prevailed six years later when the Supreme Court overturned restrictions on corporate contributions in Citizens United. In 2010, as minority leader, Mr. McConnell stated that his main goal was not to help our country recover from the Great Recession but to make President Obama a “one-term president.” A self-declared “proud guardian of gridlock,” he presided over an enormous escalation in the use of the filibuster. His innovation was to transform it from a procedural tool used to block bills into a weapon of nullification, deploying it against even routine Senate business to gridlock the legislative process.The two forces that characterized Mr. McConnell’s career, obstruction and increasing the power of corporate money in our democracy, have worked hand in hand to diminish the Senate and paralyze American politics. The flood of outside money incentivized obstruction over cooperation, and a new generation of Republicans embraced Mr. McConnell’s obstructionist tactics. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, for example, owes his standing to a few filibusters and a super PAC: As a freshman senator, he used Mr. McConnell’s tactics to shut down the government in 2013 and parlayed the resulting attention — and fund-raising — to run for president (and lose to Mr. Trump).Republicans actually took the Senate majority in 2014 in large part on claims to restore the Senate. Unsurprisingly, they broke their promises. Under President Trump, Mr. McConnell continued to run roughshod over Senate traditions, jamming the $1.5 trillion tax bill through without so much as a proper hearing. The one place the Senate has functioned efficiently is in judicial confirmations, but even here Mr. McConnell has cast aside bipartisan norms and reduced the Senate to a rubber stamp for some unqualified, extremist judges, including those rated “unqualified” by the American Bar Association.Mr. McConnell is not playing three-dimensional chess. There is no grand strategy or long game — there is only what best serves his narrow interest. And since 2010, Mr. McConnell has been convinced that his interests are best served through strict obedience to the Republican base. That year, his handpicked candidate, Trey Grayson, lost a Senate Republican primary in Kentucky to an insurgent named Rand Paul. It was a humiliating defeat and called into question Mr. McConnell’s power in his own backyard. It also invited a Tea Party challenge against his re-election in 2014.Since that scare, Mr. McConnell has rigidly adhered to whatever the base wants, institutions be damned. When the base wanted Judge Merrick Garland blocked, he obeyed. When the base wanted Mr. Trump embraced, he obeyed. While Paul Ryan was playing Hamlet in the summer of 2016, Mr. McConnell quickly endorsed Mr. Trump, providing institutional cover and repeatedly assuring Republicans that Mr. Trump would “be fine.” Mr. McConnell didn’t think Mr. Trump was going to win — he has said so himself — but he probably figured that the damage could be contained.The crass self-interest at so many turns now poses a danger to our democracy. With Mr. Trump increasingly erratic and Robert Mueller’s investigation advancing, there is simply no reason to believe he will stand up for American institutions when it counts. He has already demonstrated a willingness to put his self-interest above America’s national security: In a classified briefing in 2016, Mr. McConnell reportedly cast doubt on C.I.A. intelligence about Russia’s interference in our election and threatened that if President Obama publicly challenged Russia, he’d twist it into a partisan issue. And when the four congressional leaders drafted a bipartisan letter to the states urging them to take action to protect our election infrastructure against Russian interference, Mr. McConnell categorically rejected all efforts to strengthen the letter.Last week, Mr. McConnell had a choice. He didn’t have to acquiesce to the emergency declaration — he could have asserted the Senate’s independence at a critical time by passing the spending bill without validating Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration. If that prompted a veto, Mr. McConnell could have overridden it. That would be real leadership, and a clear assertion of the Senate’s independence. Instead, he meekly acquiesced in another presidential power grab.In the months ahead, our institutions are likely to be tested as rarely before. Under a strong leader, the Senate could provide a critical counterweight to an out-of-control executive. Instead, we have a man who will put his self-interest first, every single time. We should enter this chapter with clarity and finally see Mr. McConnell for what he is. He’s not an institutionalist. He is the man who surrendered the Senate to Donald Trump.Adam Jentleson, a former deputy chief of staff to retired Senator Harry Reid, is the public affairs director at Democracy Forward.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jim TankersleyAmong the guests President Trump invited to the State of the Union on Tuesday was Roy James, the plant manager of a sawmill in Vicksburg, Miss., whose appearance was intended to highlight a tax provision that the White House credits with saving Mr. James’s job.But whether the tax incentive actually saved the sawmill is unclear. Publicly available evidence does not substantiate the claim, and White House officials did not provide information on Tuesday that would substantiate it. While the White House highlighted Mr. James in a news release before the speech, Mr. Trump never mentioned him — or the provision that the White House claims saved his job.[Fact Check: What President Trump Got Right and Wrong in His Speech]Mr. James’s invitation was intended to call attention to a once-obscure portion of the $1.5 trillion tax overhaul, known as opportunity zones, meant to drive investment to parts of America that continue to struggle economically. The 2017 law offered potentially lucrative reductions in capital gains tax bills for investors who put money into projects inside certain areas that state officials designate as opportunity zones.Mr. James worked for 26 years at what used to be called the Anderson-Tully hardwood sawmill. Vicksburg Forest Products bought the mill last year and laid off all 158 workers. It then began refitting the mill to accommodate a different type of lumber and eventually rehired some workers. The plant now employs 125 people.It is possible that the mill could have been closed by its previous owners if it had not been sold, costing all 158 workers their jobs, rather than a smaller number. But Anderson-Tully officials had not previously indicated to the state that they planned to close the plant, though state records indicate that Anderson-Tully had been seeking for months to sell a tract of land it owned nearby. Local officials were surprised by the news of its sale and pending layoffs, the Vicksburg Post reported in March.A representative for Vicksburg Forest Products said late Tuesday that the tax provision was a “key reason” it invested in the sawmill.But at the time the company agreed to buy the mill, there were no guarantees that the property would qualify for the new federal incentives.The planned sale of the mill was announced in March, several days before the State of Mississippi proposed designating the area as an opportunity zone. The Treasury Department did not approve that designation until April.The new owners have been praised by state and federal officials for their investment — but throughout the sale announcements, in March, May and June, no one appears to have publicly mentioned the Trump tax cut provision. News reports did not begin to cite opportunity zones as a factor in the mill investment until December, when a Trump administration official visited Vicksburg to promote the project.Vicksburg Forest Products is managed by Billy Van Devender — a wealthy timber baron and philanthropist who donated $2,700 to Mr. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign.An email to him on Tuesday was returned by his son, William Van Devender Jr. He wrote on Tuesday evening that “the designation of Vicksburg as an Opportunity Zone was one of the key reasons Vicksburg Forest Products bought, reopened, and invested in the former Anderson-Tully sawmill.”“Last April, Vicksburg was designated an opportunity zone,” he added. “Our company purchased the mill the following month, knowing about the economic advantages an opportunity zone offered. In June, we announced we were reopening the mill and planned to hire 125 employees.”Mr. Van Devender did not respond to a follow-up question about whether the company had advance knowledge of the state’s pending opportunity zone designation in March, when it first agreed to buy the mill. He also did not directly address the question of how the investment “saved” jobs when the company actually reduced employment at the mill.The circumstances surrounding the sawmill’s ability to claim the tax incentive highlight critics’ fear that the opportunity zone incentives could end up rewarding economic development that would have occurred anyway — while providing rich investors with tax breaks.“The best-case scenario is they’ve given a huge capital gains tax break to continue a sawmill,” said Seth Hanlon, a former economic policy adviser to President Barack Obama who is now a senior fellow at the liberal Center for American Progress in Washington, “but with fewer employees.”A spokesman for Gov. Phil Bryant of Mississippi said in an email: “Gov. Bryant chose these 100 tracts around the State of Mississippi to encourage the exact type of investment that has been seen with the Vicksburg Forest Products sawmill. This is an American success story where more than 100 Mississippians now have jobs thanks to the creation of opportunity zones. We hope this type of investment will continue in other opportunity zone tracts throughout the state.”The White House, in announcing Mr. Trump’s guests, said that Mr. James had worked at the sawmill for 26 years when he was told that it would close.“Thankfully, last year, Vicksburg was designated an opportunity zone through provisions in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” the White House wrote. “The plant soon reopened and Roy was hired to oversee the entire facility.”Ben Carson, the Housing and Urban Development secretary whom Mr. Trump has appointed to lead an administration task force on opportunity zones, went further at an appearance in Vicksburg in December.Mr. Carson said the mill was “just an incredible sight here,” The Vicksburg Post reported, “because this is one of the first places to actually take advantage of the opportunity zones and opportunity funds. Had it not been for that program, it would very likely that this place would have closed down and those jobs gone away.”Mr. Trump did not refer to opportunity zones in his speech on Tuesday. He only briefly mentioned the tax law, as part of a section boasting about the strength of the economy.“Companies are coming back to our country in large numbers,” he said, “thanks to our historic reductions in taxes and regulations.”An earlier version of this article misstated the cabinet position of Ben Carson. He is the secretary of Housing and Urban Development, not Health and Human Services.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sharon LaFraniere and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — The attorney general for the District of Columbia has subpoenaed documents from President Trump’s inaugural committee, the third governmental body to delve into how the fund raised $107 million and spent it to celebrate Mr. Trump’s swearing-in.The latest subpoena follows similar demands for documents by federal prosecutors in Manhattan and by New Jersey’s attorney general. It cites a civil statute that governs the operation of nonprofit organizations like the inaugural committee.No other recent inaugural committee has generated such intense scrutiny of its finances. Typically short lived, the committees are charged with staging balls, concerts and black-tie dinners in the nation’s capital during inauguration week.Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee raised and spent at least twice as much as its predecessors, but it ended in acrimony amid allegations of misspent funds. Federal prosecutors are examining whether foreigners illegally contributed to events using Americans as straw donors, a possible violation of criminal law. New Jersey authorities appear to be examining whether the committee obeyed civil statutes governing how nonprofit organizations raise funds, among other matters.Karl A. Racine, the Washington attorney general, appears to be looking for any evidence of self-dealing. Under the local statute, a court can dissolve a nonprofit organization for a variety of reasons, including if a judge finds that it has misspent or squandered money.According to a copy of the subpoena obtained by The New York Times, investigators are seeking to determine whether funds “were wasted, mismanaged and/or improperly provided private benefit, causing the committee to exceed or abuse its authority or act contrary to its nonprofit purpose.”It seeks documents showing payments to the Trump International Hotel or the Trump Organization, including any communications related to “the pricing of venue rentals.” The committee, which is registered as a business in the District of Columbia, paid Mr. Trump’s hotel $1.5 million for guest rooms, meals and the use of a ballroom.The subpoena requests documents identifying what role three of Mr. Trump’s adult children — Ivanka Trump, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump — played on the committee. None of them had any official role in running the committee, which was overseen by Thomas J. Barrack Jr., a billionaire and friend of Mr. Trump.Investigators also named the Fairmont Hotel and AccorHotels, a firm that owns the hotel’s management company. The Fairmont received $1.56 million in inaugural funds for guest rooms that the Republican National Committee booked, together with rooms at other hotels, before the inaugural committee was formed, former officials said.Mr. Barrack’s investment firm owned less than 5 percent of AccorHotels and sold it in February 2017 in a transaction planned long before the inauguration, a representative said.The subpoena seeks records of any payments to any committee official or official’s business, any agreements with a vendor in which a committee official had a financial interest and the committee’s conflict of interest policies.The bulk of the Trump committee’s funds came from major corporations, such as AT&T, or wealthy Republican donors, such as Sheldon G. Adelson. Much of the money was spent on a concert at the Lincoln Memorial, three inaugural balls, several candlelight dinners and payroll.A spokesman for Mr. Racine declined to comment on the subpoena. A spokesman for the committee said officials were in touch with Mr. Racine’s office about the inquiry.Mr. Racine and Brian E. Frosh, the Maryland attorney general, have been pursuing a lawsuit claiming that Mr. Trump’s continued involvement in his business empire violates anticorruption clauses of the Constitution — a groundbreaking case that appears ultimately headed to the Supreme Court.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie HabermanPresident Trump claimed on Friday that his former personal lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen, “directly” asked him for a pardon, a sharp escalation of a fight over the veracity of Mr. Cohen’s testimony last week to the House Oversight and Reform Committee.Mr. Trump made the claim on Twitter, referring to Mr. Cohen’s testimony to Congress in which Mr. Cohen said the president lied to the public about business interests in Russia, lied to reporters about stolen Democratic emails and told Mr. Cohen to lie about hush payments to cover up sexual misconduct.Bad lawyer and fraudster Michael Cohen said under sworn testimony that he never asked for a Pardon. His lawyers totally contradicted him. He lied! Additionally, he directly asked me for a pardon. I said NO. He lied again! He also badly wanted to work at the White House. He lied!Mr. Cohen quickly responded in a tweet of his own, calling Mr. Trump’s assertions “lies.”Just another set of lies by @POTUS @realdonaldtrump. Mr. President...let me remind you that today is #InternationalWomensDay. You may want use today to apologize for your own #lies and #DirtyDeeds to women like Karen McDougal and Stephanie Clifford.Mr. Cohen was referring to two women who had claimed to have had affairs with the president, and who were paid to keep quiet about them during the 2016 presidential campaign.The exchange was the latest example of how the potential for pardons — whether hinted at by Mr. Trump and his team or sought after by people caught up in the investigations swirling around him — has become a more public flash point.The question of whether Mr. Cohen sought a pardon has been a  subject of contention since his testimony last week, when he said under oath that he had never sought one.His current lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, acknowledged this week that Mr. Cohen’s previous lawyer had inquired about a pardon soon after the F.B.I. searched Mr. Cohen’s home and office in April 2018. But Mr. Davis said that inquiry came about because the president’s team had “dangled” the possibility of one in implicit statements.Mr. Cohen has told associates that the signals from Mr. Trump about a pardon date back more than a year, soon after Mr. Cohen had publicly disclosed making what he said at the time were unreimbursed payments out of his own pocket in 2016 to Stormy Daniels, a pornographic film star who had claimed to have had an affair with the president a decade earlier.Mr. Cohen has told the associates that last March, before his office and homes were raided, he had dinner with Mr. Trump, and that he and the president talked on the phone after the raids in April. After those conversations, Mr. Cohen told the associates that he anticipated he would be given a pardon or some form of protection if he would remain silent about having been reimbursed by Mr. Trump for making the payments, according to people told of the discussions.Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump were part of a formal agreement in which their lawyers worked together to review documents that the F.B.I. had seized to determine what could be declared off limits to law enforcement officials because of attorney-client privilege. But that joint effort ended in July 2018, as Mr. Trump’s aides balked at paying parts of Mr. Cohen’s legal bills.The exchange between the two men on Friday highlighted the stakes for both in establishing whether Mr. Cohen was credible in the accusations he has made against the president in his congressional testimony and in providing information to federal prosecutors. Republicans and Mr. Trump’s allies have noted that in the testimony he said he had never sought a pardon. At the same time, Mr. Trump has often said things that are not true, including statements related to his knowledge of the payments to Ms. Daniels.The questions about the credibility of Mr. Cohen’s public testimony stands in contrast with how some prosecutors working with him have described him. A memo to the federal court judge overseeing Mr. Cohen’s case in Manhattan from the office of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, said that Mr. Cohen had been truthful and provided useful information in connection with their work. Federal prosecutors in Manhattan were more questioning about the timing and motivation for Mr. Cohen’s help, but they also have used information he provided that they were able to corroborate.The volleys between the two men on Friday also highlighted the continued questions about Mr. Trump’s pardon power and how he might use it as Mr. Mueller wraps up his investigation, as other federal prosecutors and Democrats in Congress intensify theirs and expand their scope into the president’s business career.The New York Times reported in March 2018 that Mr. Trump’s previous lead lawyer, John Dowd, had raised the possibility of pardons with lawyers for Paul Manafort, the president’s former campaign chairman, and Michael T. Flynn, the former national security adviser, after they had been charged in cases brought by Mr. Mueller’s team.Mr. Trump was asked Friday about the possibility of a pardon for Mr. Manafort. Mr. Manafort was sentenced to 47 months in prison on Thursday in one of two cases brought against him by Mr. Mueller’s prosecutors.“I haven’t discussed it,” Mr. Trump said, referring to a pardon for Mr. Manafort.Speaking to reporters outside the White House before leaving on a trip to Alabama and Florida, Mr. Trump elaborated in his comments about what he said were Mr. Cohen’s discussions about a pardon.“It was a stone-cold lie,” Mr. Trump said about Mr. Cohen’s claims that he had never sought a pardon. “And he’s lied about a lot of things, but when he lied about the pardon, that was really a lie.”Mr. Trump continued: “His lawyers said that they went to my lawyers and asked for pardons. And I can go a step above that, but I won’t do it now.”Mr. Trump’s current lead lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, has said the president is not focusing on pardons right now because it would not be appropriate — but he has also left open the possibility that the president might invoke that power down the road.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Eileen SullivanWASHINGTON — President Trump criticized Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras on Thursday for accepting monetary aid from the United States but doing nothing in return, a day after his homeland security secretary struck what she described as a historic agreement with three of those same countries to help strengthen security on the United States’ southwestern border.Mr. Trump also threatened to close the border, a move he has previously considered, which would have a significant economic impact by disrupting the flow of trade and labor.Mexico is doing NOTHING to help stop the flow of illegal immigrants to our Country. They are all talk and no action. Likewise, Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador have taken our money for years, and do Nothing. The Dems don’t care, such BAD laws. May close the Southern Border!Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen met on Tuesday with Mexican officials in Miami and on Wednesday  with Central American officials in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, to discuss the humanitarian crisis and what the Trump administration considers a security emergency at the United States-Mexico border.“I’m pleased to announce the U.S. & our Northern Triangle allies have reached a HISTORIC agreement to confront the root causes of the crisis on our border,” Ms. Nielsen said on Twitter on Wednesday. “Working with Central American govts to increase security & prosperity in the region has been one of my greatest priorities.”The countries agreed to continue having conversations about ways to counter human trafficking, smuggling, organized crime and gangs, and to improve border security throughout the region.Mexico’s president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, said on Thursday that his country was in constant communication with the United States and would maintain “a very respectful relationship” with its neighbor.It was not immediately clear what caused Mr. Trump’s outrage early Thursday, and later he wrote that “Mexico, with the strongest immigration laws in the World, refuses to help with illegal immigration & drugs!” The remarks came on the heels of House Democrats’ refusal to sign off on a Defense Department request to redirect funds to be used to help build the president’s border wall.“Instead of focusing on readiness, hurricane recovery and other genuine issues, the administration continues to spend billions of dollars on an imaginary crisis,” Representative Adam Smith of Washington, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said in a statement on Tuesday.The Trump administration has long described the situation at the border as a national security emergency, but Democrats have disputed that characterization.The acting defense secretary, Patrick M. Shanahan, said on Wednesday that despite the objection from lawmakers, the Pentagon would move forward with the plan to reprogram funds to be used for the border wall.In February, Mr. Trump declared a national emergency on the southern border, providing for military funds to be shifted to help build the wall. The decision provoked outrage from Democratic and Republican lawmakers over the constitutional separation of powers. The president vetoed a resolution to block his declaration, and on Tuesday the House failed to overturn that veto.Defense Department officials have said they do not need congressional approval to divert funds and use them for the wall.Kirk Semple contributed reporting from Mexico City.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Haberman and Robert PearWASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s surprise decision to press for a court-ordered demolition of the Affordable Care Act came after a heated meeting in the Oval Office on Monday, where the president’s acting chief of staff and others convinced him that he could do through the courts what he could not do through Congress: repeal his predecessor’s signature achievement.Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff and former South Carolina congressman, had spent years in the House saying that the health law should be repealed, and his handpicked head of the Domestic Policy Council, Joe Grogan, supported the idea of joining a Republican attorneys general lawsuit to invalidate the entire Affordable Care Act.That suit, and the Justice Department, initially pressed to nullify only the part of the law that forces insurance companies to cover people with pre-existing medical conditions as well as a suite of health benefits deemed “essential,” such as pregnancy and maternal health, mental health and prescription drugs.But a district judge in Texas ruled that the entire law was rendered unconstitutional when President Trump’s tax law brought the tax penalty for not having health insurance to zero, and the administration faced a choice: stick with its more limited intervention or back the judge’s decision.Mr. Trump has declared that he has kept his promises, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Grogan argued, and as a candidate he campaigned on repealing the health law. His base of voters would love it. Besides, they argued, Democrats have been campaigning successfully on health care, and Republicans should try to claim the issue for themselves. This could force the matter.Among those with concerns was Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel, who shared that the new attorney general, William P. Barr, opposed such a move. Vice President Mike Pence was worried about the political ramifications of moving ahead without a strategy or a plan to handle the millions who could be left suddenly uninsured if the suit succeeded.The health and human services secretary, Alex M. Azar II, was on speakerphone during the meeting and also voiced concern about the move, people familiar with the call said. And Marc Short, Mr. Pence’s chief of staff, suggested that it was risky for Mr. Trump’s administration to be at odds with so many Republican attorneys general on such a key issue.But Mr. Trump had been sold, and on Monday night, the Justice Department issued a letter saying it supported the Texas judge’s decision.The blowback has been severe. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, who is close with Mr. Trump, had privately warned the president not to interrupt the “victory lap” he should be taking after the delivery of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Mueller, according to a letter by Mr. Barr, found no criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.The reaction was even more intense in the Senate. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, had planned to use the week to publicize his floor vote to force Democrats to take a stand on progressives’ Green New Deal — an important party-building exercise for Republicans after Mr. Trump’s decision to declare an emergency at the border sparked an insurrection in their ranks this month.Members of Mr. McConnell’s leadership team were incensed at Mr. Mulvaney and allies like the acting White House budget director, Russell Vought, for rekindling a fight that served Democrats so well in 2018 and could harm vulnerable incumbents in 2020, according to two senior aides with direct knowledge of the situation. The maneuver may make it much less likely that Mr. Vought, the chief of staff’s handpicked successor to head the Office of Management and Budget, will be confirmed by the Senate, the aides said.And Democrats pressed their advantage.“The equivalent of a nuclear bomb fell on our country when the president said what he said this week,” Representative Anna G. Eshoo, Democrat of California, said Wednesday as her House subcommittee began pushing through health care legislation. “This is deadly serious.”But Mr. Trump doubled down while talking to reporters in the Oval Office. He predicted that the Texas decision would be upheld by the appeals court, then go to the Supreme Court.“If the Supreme Court rules that Obamacare is out, we’ll have a plan that is far better than Obamacare,” he said.[What happens if Obamacare is struck down? Read more.]White House press aides did not immediately respond to a request for comment. And one official, who asked for anonymity to speak about the meetings, insisted that Mr. Mulvaney had simply been convening people with various views so that the president could make his own decision. But Mr. Mulvaney was described as leading the charge to back the suit, in an account of the two meetings that was described by a half-dozen people with knowledge of what took place.Politico first reported that Mr. Mulvaney pushed Mr. Trump to get involved in the suit.Mr. Barr did not favor the move but did not object to the White House decision once it had been made, people familiar with what took place said. And one White House official said the administration faced a deadline imposed by the court if it wanted to support the suit.But the decision to thrust Mr. Trump’s administration so directly into the lawsuit caught several people inside the White House by surprise, and took the focus off what was arguably the best weekend of the Trump presidency.Mr. Trump did not seem to care about shifting the political focus toward an issue that Democrats far preferred to the aftermath of the Mueller report. He charged ahead at a Senate Republican luncheon, telling reporters as he went in, “Let me just tell you exactly what my message is: The Republican Party will soon be known as the party of health care. You watch.”But Republicans in Congress have no obvious road forward on legislation to replace the Affordable Care Act that could pass the Democrat-controlled House. And House leaders have little political incentive to bow to Republican wishes on health care, an issue that they believe delivered their House majority and that they are eager to campaign on in 2020.The Trump administration has tried to minimize and contain the Affordable Care Act over time. The president has been in favor of previous efforts to end the law. And Mr. Mulvaney has over time built up his internal political capital, and grown his team of loyalists.Mr. Mulvaney is the first ideological purist who has served as Mr. Trump’s chief of staff. His critics inside the West Wing say he has tilted the voices Mr. Trump hears in favor of those who will back his own views.As Republicans pointed fingers, House Democrats began moving legislation on Wednesday to ensure safeguards for people with pre-existing conditions and to hold down the costs of health insurance and prescription drugs. Ms. Eshoo, the chairwoman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, said the bills were needed to counter what she described as “a monstrous attack” on the health law by the Trump administration.Several Republicans on the panel distanced themselves from the administration’s position.“I’m not with the president on eliminating pre-existing conditions,” said Representative John Shimkus, Republican of Illinois. Republicans, he said, believe in protecting people with pre-existing conditions.The subcommittee approved a bill that would provide $100 million a year for insurance counselors known as navigators who help consumers enroll in health insurance plans under the Affordable Care Act.The Trump administration “has slashed, practically eliminated, funding for the navigators,” said Representative Kathy Castor, Democrat of Florida.Several Republicans said insurance agents and brokers were enrolling more people at a lower cost than the navigators, so the additional money was not needed.The panel also approved bills to outlaw two practices that have been used by brand-name drug companies to stifle competition and delay the sale of lower-cost generic medications.One measure would prohibit makers of brand-name drugs from paying off generic companies to delay sale of the less expensive products. Banning such “pay for delay” arrangements could save consumers billions of dollars over a decade, economists say.Another bill approved by the House panel would require brand-name drug companies to provide samples of their products to generic drug makers.Generic drug developers need samples of brand-name drugs to show that a generic copy is equivalent to the original. Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, has called on the industry to “end the shenanigans” that prevent consumers from getting access to low-cost generic drugs.The House panel also approved on a party-line vote a bill to provide federal money to states to help pay the largest health insurance claims. Democrats said such “reinsurance” programs would lower premiums, as shown by the experience of Minnesota, Alaska, Maryland and several other states. Republicans said they worried that federal funds would go to health plans that covered abortion.Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.OpinionNicholas BagleyAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kenneth P. Vogel, David D. Kirkpatrick and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — In the world of big-dollar political donors, Imaad Zuberi is notable less for the scale of his giving than for its baldly transactional nature. A supporter of President Barack Obama and then Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign who frequently posted pictures of himself alongside high-profile politicians, Mr. Zuberi, a California venture capitalist, abruptly pivoted after Donald J. Trump’s victory.Telling friends he needed to act quickly to balance out his political connections if he hoped to maintain access, he donated more than $1.1 million to committees associated with Mr. Trump and the Republican Party in the three months after the 2016 election.It seemed to work. Mr. Zuberi scored coveted invitations to a pair of black-tie dinners celebrating Mr. Trump’s inauguration. In the process, he posted photos of himself with the president, as well as Mr. Trump’s first chief of staff, Reince Priebus, and Mr. Trump’s picks for Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin; housing and urban development secretary, Ben Carson; and defense secretary, Jim Mattis.But the biggest donation of his postelection flurry — $900,000 paid by Mr. Zuberi’s California firm, Avenue Ventures, to Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee — is now being scrutinized by federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York as part of what appears to be an escalating investigation into the inauguration and its financing.On Monday, the prosecutors served a subpoena on the inaugural committee, demanding it turn over records detailing its finances, including all donations and expenditures, as well as perks like photo opportunities and V.I.P. receptions offered to major donors. Mr. Zuberi and Avenue Ventures were the only donors named in the subpoena.The subpoena focused particularly on foreign money, which inaugural committees are legally prohibited from accepting. It requested records related to donations “made by or on behalf of foreign nationals,” and the committee’s procedures for preventing such donations.Mr. Zuberi is an American citizen. The subpoena does not state the nature of prosecutors’ interests in Mr. Zuberi or his company.His spokesman, Steve Rabinowitz, said the money Mr. Zuberi donated to the inaugural fund was “all his money, his personal money, certainly not foreign money.” Mr. Zuberi “has no business with the U.S. government, and there is nothing that the U.S. government can be particularly helpful to him with,” Mr. Rabinowitz added.In an interview, Mr. Zuberi said that his donations were “more of a networking thing,” intended mostly to help him meet people who could help with a New York real estate investment fund.“To open doors, I have to donate,” he said. “It’s just a fact of life.” He added, “Not only did it not yield any business, but it actually backfired,” because of the attention he has received since his donation was cited in the subpoena.But Mr. Zuberi’s activity around the time of the inauguration suggests that he quickly came into contact with a variety of people in Mr. Trump’s orbit, some of whom, according to associates briefed on the conversations, discussed business opportunities with him.In the month after the election, Mr. Zuberi posted a photo on Facebook with Mr. Trump’s incoming national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, a few days before Mr. Zuberi indicated on Facebook that he traveled to the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.Mr. Rabinowitz said his client merely bumped into Mr. Flynn at Trump Tower, and asked to take a selfie. “There was no meeting with Mike Flynn,” Mr. Rabinowitz said.Mr. Zuberi said he briefly discussed the possibility of doing business with a pair of top Trump fund-raisers — Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer, and Elliott Broidy, a California investor. Mr. Zuberi said his discussion about business opportunities with Mr. Broidy took place last year.Those conversations never progressed beyond the initial stages, according to Mr. Zuberi, who said he and Mr. Cohen discussed a Manhattan real estate venture, while he and Mr. Broidy discussed an artificial intelligence start-up.Nonetheless, prosecutors asked Mr. Cohen about his dealings with Mr. Zuberi after Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty late last year to a range of crimes, and agreed to cooperate with various investigations. Mr. Cohen has spent more than 70 hours with investigators with the Manhattan prosecutors and the office of the special counsel investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Mueller referred the case to the New York prosecutors.The federal investigation by prosecutors in Manhattan is different from one taking place in Brooklyn, where federal prosecutors are also examining inaugural officials and other entities that supported Mr. Trump.The inaugural committee was led by a longtime friend of Mr. Trump’s, Thomas J. Barrack Jr., who raised a record $107 million for the festivities. A memo drafted for Mr. Barrack’s investment company, Colony, shortly after the inauguration showed a plan by the firm to capitalize on ties to the president “while avoiding any appearance of lobbying.”The memo’s existence was first reported by ProPublica. A spokesman for Colony said in a statement that the memo was “simply an outline of a proposed potential business plan,” and that it was “never acted upon or implemented.” The statement put the blame for the plan on Rick Gates, who was Mr. Barrack’s right-hand man for the inauguration. Mr. Gates has pleaded guilty to conspiracy and lying to investigators and is cooperating with the special counsel.The subpoena to the inaugural committee also asks for records related to the tech company Stripe, which processed payments by donors to the inaugural fund, including credit card transactions.Based in San Francisco, Stripe is registered with the Treasury Department as a money services business, and by law is required to keep an eye out for and report suspicious transactions. Most such businesses have highly automated programs designed to spot unusual transactions.For instance, if a donor listed a residence in Texas, but used a credit card that had been issued overseas, Stripe’s compliance officers might have raised questions about the true source of the funds.The subpoena asks for communications between the inaugural committee and Stripe. It is not clear whether Stripe received a separate subpoena for its transaction or reporting records related to the inaugural fund. The company declined to comment.One of Stripe’s investors, Thrive Capital, is controlled by Josh Kushner, the younger brother of Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser. But there is no indication that investigators are interested in that connection.The scrutiny of the inaugural committee underscores the degree to which the investigations surrounding Mr. Trump, once centered on potential ties to Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election, have expanded and splintered into multiple inquiries touching on a wide range of topics, including his business, his campaign, his inauguration and his presidency.Mr. Rabinowitz said Mr. Zuberi “has never been contacted by the special counsel’s office or by any U.S. attorney’s office and has no knowledge of any of them having ever inquired about him.”Mr. Zuberi’s donations were channeled through Caroline Wren, a veteran Republican fund-raiser who worked for the committee that funded the 2016 Republican National Convention in Cleveland, to which Mr. Zuberi donated $100,000 in January 2017 — months after the convention — according to Mr. Rabinowitz.Ms. Wren, who did not respond to requests for comment, also was Mr. Zuberi’s point of contact for his inaugural donation.He was rewarded during the inaugural festivities with a seat at an elite candlelight dinner next to the Turkish foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu. Mr. Zuberi said that he received 10 tickets to the dinner, and that while he could not remember if he gave one of them to Mr. Cavusoglu, he had been acquainted with the foreign minister before the dinner because he was pursuing a business project in Turkey.At another dinner, for foreign diplomats in Washington, Mr. Zuberi was assigned a seat at a table to be headed by Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, and including Howard Lorber, a New York business executive close to Mr. Trump, as well as diplomats from Cambodia, Cameroon and Bahrain, where Mr. Zuberi’s private equity funds have had big investments. (A spokesman for Mr. Cornyn later said the senator did not end up attending the dinner.)A photo from the event shows Mr. Zuberi in conversation with Mr. Trump and other guests.Mr. Zuberi’s company, Avenue Ventures, manages private equity funds but also often acts as a consultant or intermediary for investors. It has had offices in China and Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and its funds have reportedly invested in real estate in India and a resort in Bahrain. It has listed as advisers retired Gen. Wesley K. Clark, a Democratic presidential candidate in 2004, and Richard G. Olson, who was the ambassador to Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates.Executives who do business in the Persian Gulf and a person close to Mr. Zuberi said his firm had done business or sought investments in several gulf kingdoms, including Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain, as well as in Turkey.Maintaining visible access to the highest levels of American government has become an essential tool of Mr. Zuberi’s private equity business, two people close to him said. His company often oversees investments in infrastructure or other projects requiring government contracts or approval in the United States or more often abroad, and his high-profile American contacts create an appearance of influence that he uses to court investors and business partners.In at least one case, his habit of trading on his political connections has veered into acting as an agent for a foreign government. In 2015, the scandal-plagued government of Sri Lanka paid a total of $6.5 million to Mr. Zuberi and another company linked to him, for services that appear to have included seeking to influence the American government, the magazine Foreign Policy reported. Mr. Zuberi belatedly registered as a consultant to the government of Sri Lanka, as required by law under the Foreign Agents Registration Act.The Clinton presidential campaign was nonetheless eager for his donations. In November 2015, the campaign staff sent its chairman, John D. Podesta, a memo summarizing the Foreign Policy article in preparation for a meeting with Mr. Zuberi in Los Angeles.“Thank him for his support of the campaign,” the memorandum reminded Mr. Podesta — in one of several Clinton campaign documents made public by WikiLeaks. “Imaad was one of the first donors to contribute to the Hillary Victory Fund this week (our joint fund-raising committee with the D.N.C.).”Mr. Zuberi, who contributed $615,000 of his own money to Mrs. Clinton’s campaign, also raised $270,000 from other donors, according to the memo.He conceded that it was not ideal that those with significant wealth could donate it to gain access to elected officials in a manner that those with less money could not.“That’s just fortunately or unfortunately how it works,” he said. “We don’t have the perfect system, but we probably have the best system in the world.”An earlier version of this article, relying on incomplete information from the inaugural committee, referred incorrectly to the seating around Imaad Zuberi at an inaugural dinner. While Senator John Cornyn was assigned a seat at the table, a spokesman notified The Times after publication of the article that Mr. Cornyn had not attended the dinner.Kenneth P. Vogel reported from Washington, David D. Kirkpatrick from London and Maggie Haberman from New York. Sharon LaFraniere, Katie Benner and Ben Protess contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. Shear, John Eligon and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — The surprise hits of the annual gathering of right-wing activists in Washington were appearances by three black women. Lynnette Hardaway and Rochelle Richardson, better known as Diamond and Silk, thanked the organizers for inviting them — “two conservative black chicks” — before mocking reparations. Candace Owens, the fiery young YouTube sensation, called on black people to escape from the country’s liberal ideology.Their unapologetic support for President Trump was greeted with huge applause at the Conservative Political Action Conference, which concluded Saturday with an appearance by the president. Days before, Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, testified before a Congressional committee that the president is a racist who had once said that black people were “too stupid” to vote for him.“I don’t believe the president said that,” Ms. Owens said in an interview from the bustling convention hall on Friday. “The second you put him in front of a crowd of black Americans, they love him. They walk away and they say, ‘he’s amazing.’”All three women are part of the small but diverse collection of black Trump supporters who operate out of TV studio green rooms and appear at rallies far from the president’s inner circle in the West Wing. They advocate on the president’s behalf. Their very presence, some of Mr. Trump’s backers argue, is evidence that the president’s critics are wrong that he is a racist.At the committee hearing, the surprise appearance of a black Trump surrogate raised fresh debates in Washington about the paltry number of black people who are in Mr. Trump’s orbit — the few who have worked in his private company or work in his White House, serve in his cabinet and speak for him on his favorite medium of cable news — and what their presence means for the administration.According to some polls, 92 percent of black voters, who are overwhelmingly Democrats, disapprove of Mr. Trump. But even among the small collection of Mr. Trump’s African-American supporters, there are factions.There are the true believers who maintain he can do no wrong; the ones who stick with the president even when his rhetoric makes them queasy; those who agree with his policies but dislike how some black Trump supporters play to racial stereotypes. And then there are the black Republicans who believe that Mr. Trump has no interest in helping black people and are exasperated by the African-Americans who still defend him.Raynard Jackson, a veteran black political strategist and Trump supporter, said he winced during the Cohen hearings when Lynne Patton, a black member of the administration, was summoned and stood silently behind Representative Mark Meadows of North Carolina, a white, conservative congressman, to counter Mr. Cohen’s claims that the president is racist.“I was horrified,” Mr. Jackson said. “Any black person that has half of a brain would have said to Congressman Meadows, ‘I’m not going to allow you to use me as a prop.’”The awkward moment underscored the racial tensions in the room as Representative Rashida Tlaib, of Michigan, a Palestinian-American Democrat, accused her colleague of trotting Ms. Patton out as “a prop,” which she deemed racist. It also underscored the divisions among Mr. Trump’s very few black, conservative supporters.Mr. Trump’s most active black surrogates have formed something of a support group, talking everyday to discuss policy or lament their critics, said Katrina Pierson, who is black and a senior adviser on Mr. Trump’s 2020 campaign. One of those conversations came after Ms. Patton’s appearance at the hearing, Ms. Pierson said.“We know that black media is going to tear us down and try to take away our credibility, although we’re probably the most credible for the community,” she said.Other African-American conservatives are not so sure of that. Several black Republicans said their own credibility has been hurt by the actions of some of the president’s most visible black surrogates.Harold E. Doley Jr., 71, is a longtime wealthy black Republican who opposes Mr. Trump. Mr. Doley pointed to the rapper Kanye West’s appearance with Mr. Trump in the Oval Office last year, calling it a “bad and embarrassing minstrel show” that served to only drive black people away from the G.O.P.“People look at that and say, ‘I don’t want to be a part of that,’” Mr. Doley said.Mr. Trump received 8 percent of the black vote in 2016, according to some estimates. During a 2016 campaign speech, he pledged to win 95 percent of black voters by 2020.Over the years, Mr. Trump has faced increasingly public charges of racism for his comments on “shithole countries” in Africa, his doubling down on the guilt of the Central Park Five, a group of young men convicted of assaulting and raping a white woman but were later exonerated, the housing discrimination complaints leveled against him and his father, promoting birtherism and calling for violence against Black Lives Matter protesters.Ben Carson, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development, is the only African-American in Mr. Trump’s cabinet. Omarosa Manigault Newman, the onetime White House adviser, was the only black member of his senior staff; Mr. Trump fired her at the end of 2017 and she later wrote a book accusing the president of being a racist.Still, the black supporters who are willing to shrug off their thin ranks point to the president’s public history of having friendships with African-American celebrities as evidence that Mr. Trump is not the kind of bigot that Ms. Manigault Newman and the majority of black voters consider him.Paris Dennard, who is black and one of the president’s most fervent evangelists, said he had lost many black Republican friends because of his support for Mr. Trump. He added that the president has a special appreciation for the black people who stick up for him under such intense scrutiny.“He’s very aware of the pressure and the toll that it takes on African-American supporters,” he said.At CPAC on Saturday, the president hailed Ms. Owens by name, congratulating her on an upcoming wedding and saying that she is part of a group of young activists who are fighting what he called “unbelievable anger” from the left. “You have the courage to speak the truth. To do what is right and to fight for what you believe. And keep doing it,” Mr. Trump said.Those black conservatives who have distanced themselves from the president said they have done so for good reason. The Rev. A. R. Bernard, a black pastor from Brooklyn, was a member of an evangelical advisory council for Mr. Trump, but quit because the president failed to condemn white supremacists in response to the deadly march in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017.Mr. Bernard recalled a dinner with Mr. Trump and other clergy two years ago when he tried to impress upon the president how black and white people experience poverty differently. The president did not give any feedback, Mr. Bernard recalled, and seemed uninterested in what he had to say.Even if a black adviser to the president wanted to effect change for black people, Mr. Bernard said, “I think you have to be willing to tell him what he needs to hear, but also accept being ignored.”The Rev. Al Sharpton, a liberal New Yorker who has known Mr. Trump for many years, used to say he did not know whether Mr. Trump was racist.“I do now,” Mr. Sharpton said this past week.Mr. Sharpton said it irked him that some of the president’s African-American allies cited his mostly “transactional relationship” with Mr. Trump as an example of why the president isn’t racist.Mr. Jackson, the veteran black political strategist, said he faulted Mr. Trump for surrounding himself with black people who told him what he wanted to hear rather than what he needed to hear, but he continues to support Mr. Trump because of his economic policies, he said.“I can huff and puff until we get a new president, or I can stay engaged and try to make a difference from the inside” of the conservative movement, Mr. Jackson said. “It’s just a level of maturity and wisdom, knowing that if I keep agitating, I think I can make a difference.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the former White House adviser who was the only black member of President Trump’s senior staff. She is Omarosa Manigault Newman, not Maginault Newman.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter BakerWASHINGTON — President Trump declared a national emergency on the border with Mexico on Friday in order to access billions of dollars that Congress refused to give him to build a wall there, transforming a highly charged policy dispute into a confrontation over the separation of powers outlined in the Constitution.Trying to regain momentum after losing a grinding two-month battle with lawmakers over funding the wall, Mr. Trump asserted that the flow of drugs, criminals and illegal immigrants from Mexico constituted a profound threat to national security that justified unilateral action.“We’re going to confront the national security crisis on our southern border, and we’re going to do it one way or the other,” he said in a televised statement in the Rose Garden barely 13 hours after Congress passed a spending measure without the money he had sought. “It’s an invasion,” he added. “We have an invasion of drugs and criminals coming into our country.”But with illegal border crossings already down and critics accusing him of manufacturing a crisis, he may have undercut his own argument that the border situation was so urgent that it required emergency action. “I didn’t need to do this, but I’d rather do it much faster,” he said. “I just want to get it done faster, that’s all.”The president’s decision incited instant condemnation from Democrats, who called it an unconstitutional abuse of his authority and vowed to try to overturn it with the support of Republicans who also objected to the move.“This is plainly a power grab by a disappointed president, who has gone outside the bounds of the law to try to get what he failed to achieve in the constitutional legislative process,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said in a joint statement.Mr. Trump’s announcement came during a freewheeling, 50-minute appearance in which he ping-ponged from topic to topic, touching on the economy, China trade talks and his coming summit meeting with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. The president again suggested that he should win the Nobel Peace Prize, and he reviewed which conservative commentators had been supportive of him, while dismissing Ann Coulter, who has not.Sounding alternately defensive and aggrieved, Mr. Trump explained his failure to secure wall funding during his first two years in office when Republicans controlled both houses of Congress by saying, “I was a little new to the job.” He blamed “certain people, a particular one, for not having pushed this faster,” a clear reference to former Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, a Republican.Mr. Trump’s assertions were replete with misinformation and, when challenged by reporters, he refused to accept statistics produced by his own government that conflicted with his narrative.“The numbers that you gave are wrong,” he told one reporter. “It’s a fake question.”On point after point, the president insisted that he would be proved correct. “People said, ‘Trump is crazy,’” he said at one point, discussing his outreach to Mr. Kim. “And you know what it ended up being? A very good relationship.”[President Trump declared a national emergency. What happens now?]Mr. Trump acknowledged that his declaration of a national emergency would be litigated in the courts and even predicted a rough road for his side. “Look, I expect to be sued,” he said, launching into a mocking riff about how he anticipated lower court rulings against him. “And we’ll win in the Supreme Court,” he predicted.Indeed, Public Citizen, an advocacy group, filed suit by the end of the day on behalf of three Texas landowners whose property might be taken for a barrier. California and New York likewise announced that they will sue over what Gov. Gavin Newsom of California called the president’s “vanity project,” and a roster of other groups lined up to do the same. “Fortunately, Donald Trump is not the last word,” said Mr. Newsom, a Democrat. “The courts will be the last word.”Among those predicting a flurry of judicial decisions against Mr. Trump was George T. Conway III, a conservative lawyer and the husband of Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor. “If he knows he is going to lose,” Mr. Conway, a vocal critic of Mr. Trump, wrote on Twitter, “then he knows he is violating the Constitution and laws he has sworn to uphold.”The House Judiciary Committee announced Friday that it would investigate the president’s emergency claim, while House Democrats plan to introduce legislation to block it. That measure could pass both houses of Congress if it wins the votes of the half-dozen Republican senators who have criticized the declaration, forcing Mr. Trump to issue the first veto of his presidency.The emergency declaration, according to White House officials, enables the president to divert $3.6 billion from military construction projects to the wall. Mr. Trump will also use more traditional presidential discretion to tap $2.5 billion from counternarcotics programs and $600 million from a Treasury Department asset forfeiture fund.Combined with $1.375 billion authorized for fencing in the spending package passed on Thursday night, Mr. Trump would have about $8 billion in all for barriers, significantly more than the $5.7 billion he unsuccessfully demanded from Congress.The president opted not to tap hurricane relief money from Texas or Puerto Rico, an idea that had generated angry complaints from Republicans. But he expressed no concern that diverting military construction money would delay projects benefiting the troops like base housing, schools and gyms. “It didn’t sound too important to me,” he said.Here’s how President Trump’s border wall fits on the list of emergency declarations.Neither the White House nor the Pentagon had yet identified which projects may be shelved as a result, but Pentagon lawyers and other officials planned to work over the weekend to identify which construction funds would be diverted.The declaration also provided that land may be transferred to the Defense Department from other federal agencies or from privately purchased or condemned land. The next step would be to secure those lands, where the Pentagon would erect barriers. The declaration gives Patrick Shanahan, the acting defense secretary, broad latitude to carry out this process.Most Americans oppose Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration, according to polls. One released this week by Fox News found 56 percent against it, including 20 percent of Republicans.Mr. Trump’s desire for approval by Fox and other conservative news outlets was on display when he identified various pundits as supporters, naming Sean Hannity, Laura Ingraham, Tucker Carlson and Rush Limbaugh, although he insisted that “they don’t decide policy.”But Ms. Coulter, who has viscerally attacked Mr. Trump for caving on the wall, has clearly gotten under his skin. “I don’t know her,” he said before quickly correcting himself. “I hardly know her. I haven’t spoken to her in way over a year.” He noted, though, that she was an early predictor of his election victory. “So I like her, but she’s off the reservation,” he said. “But anybody that knows her understands that.”Ms. Coulter fired back shortly afterward. “The only national emergency is that our president is an idiot,” she said on KABC radio in Los Angeles.White House officials rejected criticism from across the ideological spectrum that Mr. Trump was creating a precedent that future presidents could use to ignore the will of Congress. Republicans have expressed concern that a Democratic commander in chief could cite Mr. Trump’s move to declare a national emergency over gun violence or climate change without legislation from Congress.“It actually creates zero precedent,” Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, told reporters. “This is authority given to the president in law already. It’s not as if he just didn’t get what he wanted so he’s waving a magic wand and taking a bunch of money.”Presidents have declared national emergencies under a 1970s-era law about five dozen times, and 31 of those prior emergencies remain active. But most of them dealt with foreign crises and involved freezing property, blocking trade or exports or taking other actions against national adversaries, not redirecting money without explicit congressional authorization.White House officials cited only two times that such emergency declarations were used by presidents to spend money without legislative approval — once by President George Bush in 1990 during the run-up to the Persian Gulf war, and again by his son, President George W. Bush, in 2001 after the terrorist attacks in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.In both of those cases, the presidents were responding to new events — the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and Al Qaeda’s assault on the United States — and were moving military funds around for a military purposes. Neither was taking action specifically rejected by Congress.In Mr. Trump’s case, he is defining a longstanding problem at the border as an emergency even though border apprehensions have actually fallen in recent years, to 400,000 in the last fiscal year from a peak of 1.6 million in the 2000 fiscal year. And unlike either of the Bushes, he is taking action after failing to persuade lawmakers to go along with his plans through the regular appropriations process.[Read the first edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up for it here.]The spending package passed Thursday by Congress included none of the $5.7 billion that Mr. Trump demanded for 234 miles of steel wall. Instead, it provided $1.375 billion for about 55 miles of fencing. Mr. Trump signed the package into law on Friday anyway to avoid a second government shutdown after the impasse over border wall funding closed the doors of many federal agencies for 35 days and left 800,000 workers without pay.For weeks, Republicans led by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky urged Mr. Trump not to declare a national emergency, but the president opted to go ahead anyway to find a way out of the political corner he had put himself in with the failed effort to force Congress to finance the wall.Mr. McConnell privately told the president that he would support the move despite his own reservations, but warned Mr. Trump that he had about two weeks to win over critical Republicans to avoid having Congress vote to reject the declaration.Mr. Trump was among those Republicans who criticized President Barack Obama for using his executive authority to spare millions of illegal immigrants from deportation after failing to persuade Congress to do so. “Repubs must not allow Pres Obama to subvert the Constitution of the US for his own benefit & because he is unable to negotiate w/ Congress,” Mr. Trump tweeted in 2014.But Mr. Trump sought to drive home the personal toll of illegal immigration, inviting to the Rose Garden several relatives of Americans killed by people in the country without authorization. Some of the relatives, known as “angel moms,” stood up holding pictures of loved ones who had died.“Matthew’s death was preventable and should have been prevented,” one of the women, Maureen Maloney, said in an interview after the event. Her son Matthew Denice, 23, was killed in 2011 in a motorcycle accident in Massachusetts after colliding with an automobile driven by an undocumented immigrant. “He should have never been here in the first place,” she said. “If he wasn’t here, it wouldn’t have happened.”Reporting was contributed by Annie Karni, Eric Schmitt, Emily Cochrane and Nicholas Fandos from Washington, and Jennifer Medina from Los Angeles.Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.OpinionThe Editorial BoardOpinionPeter H. SchuckAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee delivered a flurry of demands for documents from the executive branch and the broader Trump world on Monday that detailed the breadth and ambition of a new investigation into possible obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by President Trump and his administration.In the two months since they took control of the House, Democrats on several committees have begun scrutinizing members of the president’s cabinet, his businesses, his campaign and his inaugural committee, as well as his ties to key foreign powers, including Russia, which tried to disrupt the 2016 presidential election. They have also laid the groundwork to try to obtain Mr. Trump’s tax returns.But the newest requests from Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee chairman, opened perhaps the most perilous front to date for Mr. Trump — an inquiry that takes aim at the heart of his norm-bending presidency and could conceivably form the basis of a future impeachment proceeding.Mr. Nadler was explicit on Monday in saying that the House was no longer content to await the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and would delve into many of the same issues, but with a different standard of evidence not wedded to a criminal indictment.“We will act quickly to gather this information, assess the evidence and follow the facts where they lead with full transparency with the American people,” Mr. Nadler said in a statement. “This is a critical time for our nation, and we have a responsibility to investigate these matters and hold hearings for the public to have all the facts. That is exactly what we intend to do.”Unlike Mr. Mueller, though, who has access to a grand jury to compel evidence, the Judiciary Committee could face significant hurdles to obtaining some of the material it seeks. Aides to the committee said that they had intentionally limited their initial requests to material already provided to other congressional committees or federal investigators to ensure substantial compliance.But witnesses could still choose to slow-walk production or defy subpoenas. Mr. Trump could choose to go further and assert executive privilege over certain materials, as well.The letters from Mr. Nadler, dated March 4, went to 81 agencies, individuals and other entities tied to the president. They included the Trump Organization, the Trump campaign, the Trump Foundation, the presidential inaugural committee and the White House. The Justice Department and the F.B.I., which have collected substantial evidence on Mr. Trump’s behind-the-scenes interactions with federal investigators, were also recipients.Letters also went out to dozens of the president’s closest family members and aides who counseled him as he sought to suppress the story of a pornographic film actress, Stormy Daniels, whose claim of an affair threatened his presidential campaign, and later as he began attacks against federal investigations into him and his associates, the news media and the federal judiciary.As a part of the inquiry, the committee will also investigate accusations of corruption, including possible violations of campaign finance law, the Constitution’s ban on foreign emoluments and the use of office for personal gain.Mr. Nadler did not mention the word impeachment in any of Monday’s documents, but its specter hangs heavily over Democratic leaders as they wade deeper into the president’s circles.The House Judiciary Committee is where impeachment proceedings begin. In an interview last week with The New York Times, Mr. Nadler said that he believed Mr. Trump had committed crimes while in office and had threatened basic constitutional norms. But he said he did not yet have the evidence to make the kind of overwhelming, bipartisan case against the president he believes he needs before pursuing a step as disruptive as impeachment.Monday’s requests could build that case. Twice in the past half-century, the committee has drawn up impeachment articles based, in part, on the same themes that Mr. Nadler laid out: obstruction of justice and abuse of power. There is already evidence in the public of the kind of actions the committee believes could cross those lines, and Mr. Mueller’s investigation could provide more, even if it does not ultimately recommend charging the president.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Alexandra Leigh Young and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa TobinA conversation with Representative Jerry Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, about how Congress is preparing for the results of the special counsel investigation.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Once the special counsel’s report has been released, it’s up to Congress and its oversight committees to determine what happens next. As head of the Judiciary Committee, much of that will fall to Representative Jerry Nadler. Part 3 of what to expect from the Mueller report. It’s Tuesday, March 12.archived recording (erin burnett)And good evening. I’m Erin Burnett. OutFront tonight: The biggest threat to President Trump. His name — and it’s a person — is Jerry Nadler.archived recording 1Jerry Nadler.archived recording 2Jerry Nadler.archived recording 3Jerry Nadler of New York, the Democratic head of the House Judiciary Committee.archived recording (erin burnett)The committee with the power to lead impeachment proceedings against the president of the United States.archived recording 4He is investigating, quote, “allegations of obstruction of justice, public corruption and other abuses of power.”archived recording 5Democrats, led by House Judiciary chairman Jerry Nadler, are carpet-bombing the White House with document requests.archived recording 6He is now facing a brand-new investigation, the widest since the launch of the Mueller inquiry.archived recording 7This has given folks at the White House an idea of what they’re in for the next two years or so as Democrats lay the groundwork for 2020 and a possible impeachment.representative jerry nadlerTesting, 2, 4, 6. Testing, 3, 6, 9. Testing, 4, 8 12. We can do the 5s.speakerLet’s hear it! [PHONE RINGING]michael barbaroHello. Congressman?representative jerry nadlerHi.michael barbaroHi. How are you?representative jerry nadlerO.K. How are you?michael barbaroGood. Thank you again for making some time for us. We really appreciate it.representative jerry nadlerYou’re quite welcome.michael barbaroSo Congressman, over the last couple of weeks on “The Daily,” we’ve explained to listeners how the Mueller report will be released. It goes to the attorney general. The attorney general then releases a report on the report that goes to Congress. And we’ve explained that it will either say we have evidence the president committed a crime, or we don’t have that evidence. We wanted to talk to you about what happens when that report gets to you.representative jerry nadlerWe investigate further. The fact that he committed a crime is of great interest. It’s not necessarily a guarantee of impeachment. Those are two different tests, as you know. We have a responsibility well beyond the Mueller report. We have an obligation to do our own work. The Mueller report is only for what happened with respect to Russian interference in the election and with complicity by Americans in that interference and what crimes were committed and by whom. We have to be considerably broader. I mean, that’s part of our work, but our basic work is to provide for the rule of law, make sure that the rule of law is protected. That means that we have to look into obstruction of justice, into corruption, into abuses of power. And certainly what Mueller is looking into is part of that, but we have to be much broader.michael barbaroYou said that a Mueller report that says the president committed a crime is not necessarily grounds for impeachment. Can you help me understand what you mean by that? What’s a scenario in which the Mueller report says the president committed a crime but wouldn’t equal impeachment, necessarily, in your mind?representative jerry nadlerWell, you have to understand that not every crime is an impeachable offense, and an impeachable offense needn’t be a crime. There are two different tests. So for example, if the Mueller report were to show that the president committed perjury with respect to money laundering five years ago in some scheme in New York to cheat — I don’t know. That would not be impeachable, because impeachment is an abuse of presidential power for the purpose or with the effect of aggrandizing power to the executive, of damaging liberty or the structure and functioning of government, the separation of powers. That’s what’s impeachable. Also, corruptly obtaining an election would be impeachable. But crimes that don’t bear on that would not be impeachable. So I said 20 years ago that the president’s perjury about a private sexual affair was not impeachable. And if President Trump were to be shown to have perjured himself about some business deal, that would not be impeachable. But if he were shown to commit perjury or to do something else that affected the structure and functioning of government or democratic rights or the integrity of elections, that would be impeachable.michael barbaroSo what do you do if the Mueller report says that the president committed a crime like money laundering five years ago but did not commit what you see as an impeachable offense?representative jerry nadlerWell, if the president was shown to have committed a crime of money laundering five years ago, I would hope the New York — he should be prosecuted for that.michael barbaroIn New York, right?representative jerry nadlerYeah, in New York, by the federal Southern District of New York or by the New York authorities or both, period. That’s the criminal justice system. Now the Justice Department maintains, wrongly in my opinion, that a sitting president cannot be indicted while in office, so they will not indict a president for committing some crime. I think it’s the wrong policy. I think they should be able to indict a president while he’s in office, but that’s not the real function of what we’re doing in our committee. Our committee’s job is not a criminal justice job. That’s up to the Department of Justice. That’s up to the New York state authorities. Our job is to protect the structure of democratic government and the liberties of the people. If the president committed a crime that has nothing to do with this, well, he ought to be prosecuted, but that’s not our business. We’re not a law enforcement agency.michael barbaroO.K., well, let’s flip this around and say the Mueller report finds that the president committed a crime that is absolutely grounds for impeachment. What do you do then?representative jerry nadlerWell, we have to further investigate it. Let’s put it this way. We have to do all these investigations now that we’re starting to do focused on obstruction, corruption, abuse of the power structure, et cetera. If we find that the president is guilty of that, then we have to decide what we can do about it. Impeachment is one option. But impeachment is the decision to be made further down the road, and it’s a very high bar. But it certainly would be on the table if we were to find that.michael barbaroDo you know what the bar is in your mind?representative jerry nadlerYes, and I’ve said it many times. I think there’s a threefold test for impeachment, really. Number one, has the president committed impeachable offenses? Number two, are those serious? And if the answer to the first two is yes, I think there’s one further test, and that is impeachment cannot be partisan. What you don’t want to do is divide the country so that half the country thinks for the next 30 years, we won the election. You stole it from us. You don’t want to embitter the country. The situation has to be such that you believe when you start the impeachment proceeding that the evidence you have is so persuasive of such terrible deeds that once the evidence is laid out, an appreciable fraction of the voters who voted for Trump will reluctantly say you had to do it. You’re not just trying to steal the election.michael barbaroBut the first two conditions you laid out — is it impeachable, is it serious — those feel quite subjective. So I wonder if any argument to impeach will inevitably feel partisan and therefore make your third —representative jerry nadlerAny argument —michael barbaro— condition hard, which is consensus?representative jerry nadler— to impeach is going to be political. Impeachment is a political task, and it’s intended to be by the Constitution. Yes, it’s going to be subjective. All political decisions are subjective. I shouldn’t say that. Almost all political decisions are subjective. But if this occurs, people are going to be on both sides, and some people will think you’re fair, and some won’t. But you have to really depend on the facts that you have at that point. You have to have very strong proof of very dire facts. And by the way, let me just step back. I’m a little concerned that we’re talking too much about impeachment. Our goal is not impeachment. Our goal is what I said a few minutes ago, to protect the rule of law, to protect the structure and functioning of government, to protect our liberties. That’s the basic goal. And if we can do that without impeachment, fine. If we have to do impeachment and if we meet the requirements so that we think we can do it, also fine.michael barbaroUnderstood. I want to ask you about some of the comments you have made ahead of the release of the Mueller report. You were asked a question, and in your response you said that you believed the president obstructed justice. And I wonder why you would —representative jerry nadlerLet me say the following. I think there is a lot of evidence the president obstructed justice, but we have to go a lot further. We have to know a lot more.michael barbaroBut I wonder why you would say that publicly before the release of the Mueller report. What’s the value in doing that? Does it not inherently portray whatever investigation —representative jerry nadlerWell, I believe in answering questions honestly. I was asked the question. I didn’t volunteer it. I was asked the question, and I said yes, I think certain things which —michael barbaroRight, and —representative jerry nadler— are in public view —michael barbaro— I like asking questions, but why not say, let’s wait until the Mueller report comes out?representative jerry nadlerWell, maybe I should have, but the fact is I think certain things that are in the public record make a strong case that there was obstruction, and other people say the same thing. But a strong case is not proof. Actually, I shouldn’t say a strong case. A lot of evidence is a better way of putting it. That’s not necessarily proof, and certainly not enough to convince the country at this point, and we have to have a lot more evidence and a lot more facts, and we need to know what the Mueller report said, and we may need to know a lot more than what the Mueller report says.michael barbaroSo re-asking the same question now that I think you were asked about 10 days or so ago, do you believe the president obstructed justice?representative jerry nadlerI think there’s a lot of evidence that he obstructed justice, and Mueller will tell us a lot more about that, and that’s one of the things we have to know.michael barbaroAre you concerned — and I appreciate you saying that maybe you shouldn’t have said it — but are you concerned that people will see this as a preconceived judgment? I know that at least some of your colleagues, like Jim Jordan, do see it that way heading into these investigations.representative jerry nadlerNo matter what I say or do, they’re going to say that. It’s the Republican strategy to say I decided to impeach the president the day after the election. It’s just an intent to distract. We haven’t decided. I haven’t decided to impeach. Some people have said that when I say, especially that third requirement, that’s a very high bar — and some people have said it may be an impossible bar. It may be. The three tests that I have said I didn’t invent. When we had the Clinton impeachment and I was a junior member of the committee, the first thing I did was to try to get my hands on everything that’s been written from Blackstone onward as to what’s an impeachable offense. But the second thing I did 20 years ago was I demanded that before we held hearings of the committee on fact, that we first hold a hearing on what’s an impeachable offense. And even though I was a minority member of the committee, I persuaded people, and we did that. And so what I’ve been talking about is basically what I got from that. I didn’t make up this test.michael barbaroWell, Congressman, I do have to point out that you said that we were talking too much about impeachment, but now you are talking about impeachment.representative jerry nadlerO.K., fair enough. But what I’m trying to say is we’re not focused on that. We will take the facts where they lead, and we’ll see.michael barbaroI want to stay with the topic of Mueller for a moment. You and your colleagues have held up Robert Mueller as a kind of gold standard of objectivity and fairness in all of this, as somebody who has the integrity, the background to kind of handle this properly. You have a lot of faith in him. Do you agree that there is basically no path to impeachment — sorry to use the word again — if the Mueller report finds no crimes?representative jerry nadlerNo, not necessarily. It depends what else we find. It depends what else is going on. There may be a lot of other things that we have to look into and that may be very damning.michael barbaroAnd as you said earlier, there is such a thing as an impeachable offense that is not a crime. Can you help us understand —representative jerry nadlerYes, they’re quite different tests.michael barbaro— what that might look like?representative jerry nadlerO.K. An impeachable offense is not a crime. Well, misuse of the pardon power, for example, misuse of other powers of the presidency. It is not true, as Mayor Giuliani has said and as a lot of other people have said, that the president has the absolute right to do this, and therefore if he does this, it cannot be wrong. The president has the right to do certain things.michael barbaroPardons, you mean.representative jerry nadlerFor example. The president has the absolute right to pardon anybody. But if the president was shown to pardon somebody in return for a $50,000 check, that would be a crime. It would also be an impeachable offense.michael barbaroOr to obstruct an investigation.representative jerry nadlerOr to obstruct an investigation — in other words, if it were shown for a corrupt motive. So the motive is what counts in a lot of these things.michael barbaroSo in November of 2016, right after President Trump was elected, you called for then-F.B.I. director James Comey to be forced out of his job because of how he handled the investigation of Hillary Clinton and his decision not to charge her with a crime yet still detail her wrongdoing for the public. We all remember that news conference and how that worked, and you called that unforgivable. If Robert Mueller says no crime has been committed when it comes to the president, would you, as head of the Judiciary Committee, still try to bring forward to the public the information behind the Mueller investigation? And if you were did you that, I wonder what’s different in your mind between what Comey did and what you would be doing?representative jerry nadlerYes. There’s a fundamental difference. The Justice Department has a very salutary general policy, and that is if you don’t indict somebody — why don’t you indict somebody? You didn’t have the evidence, obviously. You’ve investigated so and so. You’re not indicting her or him. You don’t comment negatively. You should, in a case of public notoriety, you should announce we’ve investigated. We’re not indicting him. That’s fine. But you have a policy, which the Justice Department does, that the president cannot be indicted no matter how much evidence just because he’s the president. Therefore we can’t comment on evidence against him or anything else. Then you’re converting a normally good policy into a cover-up, and you’re depriving Congress of its ability to hold the president accountable. You, the Justice Department, won’t hold him accountable because you’ve said you have no right to. You can’t indict him. That leaves only Congress, and now you’re going to deny Congress the right to the information. That makes the president unaccountable and above the law, and that cannot be.michael barbaroBut just to be clear, if Mueller says no crimes, the public still needs to see the evidence regardless, because the rules are different here.representative jerry nadlerNo, the public needs to see the evidence, number one, so it can be confident that it’s true. We’ve tried to protect Mueller because by all accounts he’s an honest guy, et cetera, et cetera, and the investigation has to proceed. But whatever he says, we can’t take it on faith. We don’t operate that way. We shouldn’t take things on faith. And if he says the president has committed crimes, we should know what the evidence is. If he says the president hasn’t committed crimes, we should know what the evidence is. And if the president hasn’t committed crimes but has done terrible things that he knows about, we should know that too. Or if the president has done nothing wrong, we should know that. The public has a great interest in the president, obviously.michael barbaroSo I just want to be very clear on why the case of Comey is different from the case of Mueller in terms of using —representative jerry nadlerEssentially because when he announced that he wasn’t indicting Hillary, it was because he thought there wasn’t enough evidence to indict Hillary, the normal reason you don’t indict somebody. If Mueller decides not to indict the president, then the public ought to know that and hear that and see the evidence on which he bases that.michael barbaroSo I want to talk to you, Congressman, about the politics of all of this and what the path forward might mean for the Democratic Party, because, as you know, the Republican Party has stood solidly behind the president this entire time. They have not budged at all. If Robert Mueller says at the end of the day that no crimes have been committed by the president, but your committee and others continue to investigate the president, are you concerned that this will inflict even more damage and partisanship on an already pretty divided and highly partisan American public —representative jerry nadlerNot if we do it responsibly —michael barbaro— and maybe hurt the Democratic Party in the process?representative jerry nadlerNot if we do it responsibly. Congress must hold the executive accountable. And that is with respect to crimes. It’s respect to bad deeds. It’s respect to corruption, et cetera, and it’s respect to policy. We have to provide the accountability, and we have to let the American people know what is being done in their names, and let them judge.michael barbaroBut how do you explain to the American people, who are pretty exhausted by all this, why you’re going to keep pursuing an investigation after Mueller —representative jerry nadlerWell, it depends what he says and how much he covers, and that will help determine how much we have left to do. And the answer is that we can’t rely on others to do the work for us. We have an obligation to do our own work. That’s why we were elected. And at the end of the day, the American people decide not the week after Mueller releases his report but election day next year whether we have acted responsibly or irresponsibly in a partisan or reasonable way.michael barbaroWell, would you put your belief in the need to pursue the facts over the short-term well-being of the Democratic Party if those two things seem to turn out to be at odds with one another and in conflict?representative jerry nadlerI think it’s my constitutional duty to do so.michael barbaroThis may sound a little corny, but in this moment, with everyone waiting for what’s next, what message do you want to give to Americans on what we can see as kind of the eve of the Mueller report?representative jerry nadlerWhat message? That, one, we have an administration that has attacked the institutions of government and of liberty on which we depend on in fundamental ways, and we have to rein it in. We have to make sure that the separation of powers is maintained and that liberty and the rule of law is maintained, and that the Mueller report will give us hopefully a lot of information, but that Congress has to do the job we were elected to do. And that the administration has to understand that the American people elected a Congress that wants to hold the administration accountable, and we will do that, and the Mueller report will help us do that to a greater or lesser extent, but it’s fundamentally our job.michael barbaroCongressman, thank you for your time. We really appreciate it.representative jerry nadlerYou’re welcome. Take care.michael barbaroCheers.The politics of impeachment are more charged. The president and the White House have repeatedly rejected accusations of wrongdoing, arguing that Mr. Trump is innocent of many accusations and has broad powers in his office to run the government as he chooses. And there have been few cracks among Republican lawmakers, the president’s congressional firewall.In a statement on Monday evening, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, assailed the inquiry as “disgraceful and abusive,” and called it a “fishing expedition.”“The Democrats are not after the truth,” she said. “They are after the president.”Republicans in Congress assert that Democrats have already decided to target Mr. Trump for impeachment, saying repeatedly in recent weeks that despite public statements to the contrary, the new majority is determined to kick Mr. Trump out of office.“We don’t even know what the Mueller report says, but Democrats are already hedging their bets,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the Judiciary Committee’s top Republican. “After recklessly prejudging the president for obstruction, Chairman Nadler is pursuing evidence to back up his conclusion because, as he admits, ‘We don’t have the facts yet.’”Democrats also widened another front on Monday, as the chairmen of the Foreign Affairs, Intelligence and Oversight committees wrote to the White House and State Department to request detailed documentation related to Mr. Trump’s communications with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and to reported efforts to conceal aspects of those communications.Committees in both the House and Senate have nibbled around the edges of several of the episodes raised by Mr. Nadler. But his investigation suggests a more coherent, deep investigation that could seek to tie together the scheme to pay off Ms. Daniels; the firing of James B. Comey as F.B.I. director; Mr. Trump’s attempts to remove the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III; the president’s apparent dangling of pardons and threatening of witnesses to the investigation; and other events.From Donald F. McGahn II, the former White House counsel, alone, Mr. Nadler requested all documents related to the resignation of Michael T. Flynn as national security adviser; interactions with and the firing of Mr. Comey; attempts to fire Mr. Mueller; communications with Mr. Trump about Jeff Sessions, the president’s first attorney general; and about open investigations into his presidency, among more than a dozen other topics.Mr. Nadler requested documents from Annie Donaldson, Mr. McGahn’s deputy who took exhaustive notes detailing Mr. Trump’s behavior in the West Wing in real time.Other targets include David J. Pecker, the chairman of American Media Inc., which publishes The National Enquirer and played a key role in suppressing Ms. Daniels’s story; Allen Weisselberg, the chief financial officer of the Trump Organization; Alan Garten, its lawyer; Mr. Sessions; and Thomas J. Barrack Jr., a close associate of Mr. Trump’s who led his inaugural committee.Michael D. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer and longtime fixer, who testified publicly last week before another House committee about the illegal hush money scheme, was sent three pages of requests, including any relevant “audio or video recordings.”Mr. Nadler also asked for information from Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, and his two adult sons, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump. Ivanka Trump, who is married to Mr. Kushner and works in the White House, was not included among the initial requests.The committee said that additional requests for documents would follow in the coming weeks.Lawyers for Mr. Nadler are prepared for protracted negotiations or outright fights over certain requests. If the recipients of the requests do not voluntarily comply, Mr. Nadler will most likely issue subpoenas to compel them. But even if he does, there are practical limitations that could significantly slow his efforts if a witness were to challenge the subpoena in court.The most significant hurdle could come from Mr. Trump himself. The White House could choose to assert executive privilege to try to protect many of the materials central to the committee’s inquiry, including communications between Mr. Trump, Mr. McGahn and other advisers. Such claims are usually the president’s prerogative, but any such claim would almost certainly lead to a lengthy court fight that could delay the inquiry.In a sign of how taxing the inquiry may become, Mr. Nadler has hired two elite white-collar litigators, Norman L. Eisen and Barry H. Berke, to oversee it with his staff.An earlier version of this article misstated the suffix of a former White House counsel. He is Donald F. McGahn II, not III.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementtranscriptWith Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David LeonhardtAnd what would a fair college admissions system look like?Thursday, March 21st, 2019michelle goldbergI’m Michelle Goldberg.ross douthatI’m Ross Douthat.david leonhardtI’m David Leonhardt. And this is “The Argument.” This week, is President Trump causing white supremacist terrorism or is he a red herring?jamelle bouieThis kind of violence precedes Trump.david leonhardtThen what does a fair college admission system look like?ross douthatThere were still efforts by these schools to not admit exclusively the stupidest heirs of shipping families.david leonhardtAnd finally a recommendation.michelle goldbergIt is one of the great scams of our age.david leonhardtIn an interview last week President Trump suggested that his supporters might resort to violence if they didn’t get their way. Two days later a gunman killed at least 50 people in two mosques in New Zealand and the suspected killer’s manifesto cited Trump’s friendliness to white nationalism. Today we want to talk about whether it’s fair to draw a connection between Trump and white nationalist violence. Is he part of the problem or is he a symptom of an underlying illness? To talk about this and more our colleague Jamelle Bouie is calling in from Charlottesville, Virginia. Welcome back to the show Jamelle.jamelle bouieThank you for having me.david leonhardtAnd hello Michelle and Ross.michelle goldbergHey there.ross douthatHey David.david leonhardtJamelle, how do you think about the state of the white supremacy movement right now? Do you think it’s growing? Do you think it’s always sort of out there in a small but meaningful way and it’s getting more attention right now?jamelle bouieSo I think it’s more or less kind of an ever present part of American society. It’s hard to look at any given period in American history where there has not been some kind of organized movement of white supremacists and specifically like virulent and violent white supremacists. At times they even have explicit state sanction. I think what we have to remember is that depending on the times in American history, those movements have kind of a different relationship to societies. So the second Ku Klux Klan in the late 1910s and 1920s exists more or less to bolster mainstream ideas about Americanism and the predominance of kind of a white Anglo-Saxon America. In this current iteration it is taking the kind of autonomous cell model of the ‘80s and ‘90s that shows up — Timothy McVeigh, the Oklahoma City bomber, was part of this “leaderless resistance” is the term they use — and kind of super charging that.ross douthatI mean to me, Jamelle, you know, I have conservative politics that overlaps with other people’s populist politics which in turn overlaps with some people who are sort of scarily close to some of these fringe views. And it seems to me that there’s been a big shift, mostly internet and sort of outside events-driven, in the last five or six years. I think one way to look at it which is really well illustrated in the horrifying New Zealand case is a kind of globalization of European anxiety. Where you’ve had a large trend towards immigration and cultural conflict around Islam in Europe going on for years and decades that was sort of brought to a sharp point by the Syrian refugee crisis, the rise of ISIS, the wave of ISIS-inspired bombings. Which in turn created this kind of white identitarian theory of the world that then found acolytes in North America, all the way in Australia and New Zealand. That sort of took pieces of the European experience as a normative state of global whiteness that then became an inspiration in these cases for violence. And at the same time I think it’s connected to what you might call a kind of crisis of the white Christian church in the western world where you have a lot of children who grow up in what seem like failing, culturally irrelevant forms of Christianity who often end up with a sort of contempt for Christianity but don’t turn to the left because of that. They turn to this sort of racial identity.michelle goldbergAnd then you have this nihilistic troll culture and it seems like one of the ways in which there’s no politician, as far as I know, anywhere on earth who more effectively bridges 8chan shit-posting with European replacement theory. Right? That’s Donald Trump. And so to me it’s not necessarily that I think Donald Trump has inspired this movement, but I do have to think that his success, right? The fact that if you’re going to give up your life in the service of this act of horrific mass violence it’s usually because you think that that horrific act of mass violence is going to get you closer to this grandiose goal. One of the things that Donald Trump has done is made it feel like their dreams are slightly less impossible. Right? That a basically white supremacist shitposter can become president of the United States. And so maybe this dreamed-for revolution really can happen.david leonhardtI want to home in on Trump’s role here. I mean to me it’s really clear that Trump plays a causal role in this. If you look at the rise of racism and anti-Semitism on social media. That’s the way I read the data. There is a pretty significant increase in the different data sets. Now they’re imperfect and I guess I want to see whether any of you, probably most likely Ross, disagrees with the idea — he’s not the only cause of this but the fact that we have a white nationalist as the president United States is making this stuff more common.jamelle bouieYeah I guess I think I see it in terms of to use a decent historical analogy, I see it in terms of the relationship between Andrew Johnson and kind of anti-black vigilante violence in the immediate post-Civil War period. It’s not that Andrew Johnson caused any of it but that he didn’t give a shit, right? [LAUGHS] He didn’t care much about it. At times when it happened he excused it and that was felt and heard by people on the ground. And so his indifference, his occasional sort of like complicity in it then creates an atmosphere where people willing to inflict violence decide that maybe they can get away with it. Or maybe if it’s done to send a message, that message will get some kind of amplification by a powerful political leader. And I think that’s kind of the important dynamic. I’m not sure I would attribute a causal mechanism but there is a feedback loop happening.michelle goldbergThe other piece of it is that I feel like Trump’s election has convinced these people, has convinced white nationalists, that they have much wider support than they’d realized. Right? I mean I think that most terrorists act out of a sense that they’re acting on behalf of a greater silent population. There was a poll out recently that shows that something like 19 percent of people believe that Trump opposes white nationalism. What that tells you is that a large number of his supporters believe that Trump does not, in fact, oppose white nationalism. And so again I feel like if you you’re willing to take these kind of steps, if you believe that there are people behind you, if you believe that you’re going to have some kind of support or even some sort of catalytic effect, that you’re going to spark some sort of uprising.ross douthatI think I’m closer to Jamelle’s take than Michelle’s. I think the right way to understand Trump is that yeah, he’s someone who doesn’t give a shit about white nationalism. And that the president of the United States is a powerful office with a lot of cultural influence. And that undoubtedly has toxic effects on the culture that have some kind of role in spreading these ideas, making them seem more credible and so on. I think calling Trump a white nationalist is a sort of analytic mistake. I mean we’ve had this discussion before, what counts as white nationalism? But I think it imputes a level of ideology to him that he doesn’t have. I think it’s more reasonable to call him sort of a bigot or a racist than a white nationalist. I guess I’d put it this way: I think all of these things would be happening with or without Donald Trump and I think the conversation that we had for most of this episode about the causes is much more important to the next 20 years of world history than what Trump himself is or isn’t doing. So I think it’s good and right to condemn how Trump handles this stuff and how he enables people. But I don’t think ultimately either the most extreme people acting out or the general drift is being driven that much by some idea that Donald Trump was elected and now we can build the white ethnostate. I think the dreams of the white ethnostate are responses to much broader dislocations, anxieties, transformations of which Trump is himself a kind of particularly striking epiphenomenon.david leonhardtI’m not saying Trump is causing all of this but I really don’t think that this would all be the same if Trump hadn’t run his campaign. I mean Trump has this 30-plus year history of racism right. Going back to the ads in the newspapers about the Central Park case and then he runs for office and he runs a more race-conscious and racist campaign than we’ve basically seen in our adult lifetime. And along with that we have a surge of racism and anti-Semitism online and in graffiti and as best as we can tell in the numbers in actual crimes. And so I’m not saying he’s the main cause but I just don’t think it’s enough to say that he just doesn’t care about white nationalism and that all of this would be happening if he hadn’t showed that it’s possible to go out and say these things and still be elected president.jamelle bouieI mean I guess I think that it’s tough for me to disentangle that two. Like if you’re me and you think that one of the through lines of the history of Western society from 1945 to the present is the slow motion collapse of race hierarchy, or at least a slow motion collapse of race hierarchy in its most explicit forms, and that lots of things are happening in reaction to that, then you can look at Trump, like Ross said, as an epiphenomena of that. His entire career, right? Like someone who’s casual bigotry and casual racism and acted on racism kind of just makes him a curiosity at first in national life. But as time goes on and it becomes more part of his public persona. And also it’s hard for me to say if Trump wasn’t there how much of this would be happening. The year, actually the week that Trump announced his campaign, Dylann Roof killed nine people in Charleston. Right? Sort of like this kind of violence precedes Trump. It was in planning before Trump and I feel like the most I’m willing to say about any causal relationship is just that like, Trump’s campaign, his style, his disregard, his willingness to elevate people kind of adjacent to that world, has — to borrow terminology from the last decade of politics — aid and comfort to the enemy. Right? But. I’m not sure it’s causal.david leonhardtLet’s end here. And I’d be interested in each of your thoughts quickly: how do you think this plays with the American public at this point? Trump obviously thinks it still plays well. I mean he ran the closing week of the midterm campaign basically running what I would describe as this kind of white nationalist message. How much do you think this actually helps him heading into 2020 or hurts him at this point? Jamelle?jamelle bouieIt’s always easier for me to start from like my baseline view of things. And my baseline view of things is that if Trump could somehow stop talking until November 2020 he will win re-election. Right? Like background conditions in American society are good enough that if people could just forget that Donald Trump was president he would win. Donald Trump’s problem is that he cannot stop talking, that he cannot stop reminding people that he is president and he does so in the most kind of aggressive and offensive and disheartening ways. And so to the extent that his language and rhetoric here does that, remind people of all the things they specifically dislike about President Donald Trump, it hurts him and cannot help him.david leonhardtMichelle?michelle goldbergYou know Donald Trump is a minority president, right? He was elected with a minority coalition. His re-election depends on a sort of minority rule in the United States and the perpetuation of minority rule in the United States. And so inasmuch as that’s the bet that he’s made, the way he keeps that base united, I think, is to keep giving them what they want, which is a president who will completely embrace their racial and cultural grievances and desire to spite their enemies. And so if he became a more decent man, which he can’t become, he might expand his coalition a little bit but he would lessen its intensity.ross douthatI think Michelle is right that there is a portion of Trump’s base that sort of responds to not just his comments but also sort of media attacks on his comments by ending up binding more tightly to him. But in general I’m with Jamelle. I think the only time the sort of flirtation with white nationalism stuff really helped Trump was very early in the Republican primaries when he was trying to build an initial base of support. That’s why he started out with birtherism. It helped him become a candidate with supporters. But at this point, you know, the economy is good. A different version of Trumpism that was more authentically populist on economics and was not constantly flirting with white nationalism I think would be much more electorally effective. I don’t think this stuff hurts him as much as most people who read The New York Times think it should hurt him. But I don’t think it helps him in any meaningful way.david leonhardtO.K. we’re going to leave it there and take a quick break and we will be right back to talk about the big college admissions scandal. It’s the story that bourgeois America can’t stop talking about.news clipFlurry of new indictments today ensnaring celebrities, CEOs, college coaches in a massive scheme to game the college admissions system.david leonhardtLast week federal prosecutors charged 50 people in a scheme to buy spots in elite colleges. The details were amazing bald lies about athletic prowess, a doctored photo of a football player, straight up cheating on standardized tests. The story has led many people to ask what the purpose of these elite colleges actually is and what it should be. Ross, you had a thought-provoking argument about this topic this week and I’ve been noodling over your argument ever since. So why don’t you spin it out for us so we can talk about it.ross douthatWell this is just a return to my usual theme which is that meritocracy is a failure. And I was trying to be contrarian relative to people who said well look, this shows how meritocracy is corrupted and people can buy their way into schools if they’re rich and fake SAT scores and so on. And actually I mean I think the faking of SAT scores is actually a testament to meritocracy in the sense that it turns out that the rich kids can’t get into these schools unless they literally fake having high enough SAT scores.david leonhardtThat hours of tutoring are not enough basically.ross douthatThe hours of tutoring are not enough. Right? So in that sense if all you’re concerned about is, is the system selecting for smart kids this kind of scandal should not shake your confidence in it. My question is whether it actually makes sense to have a system where you’re telling everyone all we’re doing is selecting for smart kids and that it is good that elite schools maybe have both affirmative action programs and legacy admission programs and that this is better than a world where the elite schools were sort of purely meritocratic and only admitted kids with 1600s on their SATs.michelle goldbergBut what is the possible defense of legacy admissions?ross douthatThe reason schools do it is that they want to have families and sort of intergenerational loyalties that are sort of invested in the school and the school’s success. The more radical argument is that every society has an elite and it’s not a bad thing to have elites that have a sense of stewardship and continuity and legacy admissions are not the worst way to bring that about. That you want an elite that has some continuity from generation to generation. That is obviously well outside the norm of arguments in our democratic society. But it seems to me that it might be true. I’m curious what Jamelle thinks of my strange right-wing defense of affirmative action.jamelle bouieSo this is like an area of potential convergence here because I agree that there is no real meritocracy in American society. And to the extent that there is meritocracy a kind of is like a transmission. It acts to transmit inherited advantages. So if we accept that, if we kind of buy the premise that meritocracy isn’t necessarily a great way of distributing resources like access to elite colleges — and elite colleges I’m just going to define here is not just like you’re Harvard or Yale but kind of like the highly selective schools overall. Remember with this scandal some of the kids were trying to get into USC.david leonhardtAnd I think it’s important to add public schools to it, right? I mean Jamelle you’re talking to us from Charlottesville. The University of Virginia, University of North Carolina, Michigan, Berkeley: they’re all part of this as well.jamelle bouieRight. You’ve I mean UVA — I’m a UVA grad and UVA in its conception was basically to cultivate a political and social elite for the state of Virginia. That’s what it was designed to do. If that’s what these institutions are actually doing, in addition to they’re being research institutions, they do provide education but if they also are cultivating elites, then I’m with Ross. I’d rather it be something explicit that we can have a discussion about rather than submerged under a bunch of pretense. Two things really influence my thinking here. The first is sociologist Orlando Patterson years ago had a book, “The Ordeal of Integration,” where he makes a case for affirmative action. And his case for affirmative action isn’t about merit. It’s simply about in any sufficiently elite organization what’s going to happen is that people are just going to be selecting people who are similar to them. So if we want those institutions to be more diverse, to better reflect the country, then we should just mandate that they take people who look differently. The second thing is the other big college education scandal that has happened this year and that is the T.M. Landry College Prep school scandal. It was a small private school in Louisiana, in a high poverty town. And the school’s graduates were overwhelmingly black, poor or both. And the school was sending class after class to Ivy League schools. It turns out that what it was doing is it was either falsifying grades and activities or creating kind of fake sob stories that appeal to the heartstrings of white elites who want to do a solid for a poor black kid from Louisiana. The interesting thing about this is that those kids, many of them did fine at these schools. Maybe they had a hard time for the first year but they got better and they’re doing fine. And that to me says something about the schools themselves which is that the idea that you have to score in the top echelon of anything to succeed at them is not true.michelle goldbergRight. It’s kind of being at the school that makes you succeed.jamelle bouieRight, exactly. And if that’s true then, you know, let’s drop the pretense of meritocracy then. Let’s just say, as Ross suggested, that what we’re doing here is kind of cultivating an elite. We want that elite to look like the United States, not just in terms of racial diversity but in regional diversity and religious diversity and so on so forth. And we go from there. And then we we make our decisions based off of that. Versus, again, the pretense which there are times I think pretense is actually quite important; American politics the past 20 years is one of them. But here I think we can drop it somewhat.david leonhardtThe thing I don’t completely understand though is what’s the logical extension of the argument that you’re making. So if you say, hey, these elite schools should have more regional diversity than they do, I’m with you. And the University of Texas has this great system that’s mostly worked extremely well in which they took what was originally the top 10 percent of each high school class. If you say they should be more racially diverse than they are more economically diverse, I’m with you the whole way. But then how do you pick who gets into the University of Texas or the University of Virginia or Harvard once you’ve done that. I don’t think you’re actually — either Jamelle or Ross — suggesting that we sort of have a lottery for these slots. I think we do want some meritocracy as part of the process.michelle goldbergRight, you went like a balancing of meritocracy and representation.ross douthatRight.david leonhardtYes, exactly.ross douthatBut there has always been that balance, right? Like even in the — to reference my most popular column ever — even in the old days of WASP hegemony, right, there were still efforts by these schools to not admit exclusively the stupidest heirs of shipping families, right?david leonhardtSome efforts but those efforts didn’t go that far. [LAUGHS]ross douthatBut I think people overestimate how hostile the past was to talent. Right? Of course you want an elite to be talented but you can say, if you’re an elite school we’re gonna set a minimum SAT score pegged to the average distribution of SAT scores in this ethnic group or region or whatever. So we’re going to ensure that we’re not admitting people who can’t handle the work at all. You obviously don’t get rid of some sort of bias towards merit but you assume that the system right now might be too biased towards merit. And again this is the elite level. I think there’s a larger conversation here about how Harvard and Yale have pretended that they’re in the mass opportunity game which they’re not. They’re tiny elite schools. And meanwhile the rest of American higher ed has pretended that they’re all like Harvard and Yale when in fact what we need is state schools to have a different approach, and Catholic schools to have a different approach, and historically black colleges to have a different approach. We need much more investment in community college and vocational education. But definitely this shift in how elite colleges approach things would have to go hand-in-hand with a shift in like how you know mid-level state universities handle things. And there might be a case that like certain kinds of public universities should be more meritocratic and should be, you know, only doing it based on tests, and you know that you should have a lot of different approaches.michelle goldbergI mean the one reason why sort of meritocratic ideals are so important is because they create an illusion of fairness around what’s an extremely unfair system. And so the underlying kind of structural thing here is that we have such a massively unequal society that we have this insane kind of funnel system in which we decide who deserves not just opportunity, but sort of, you know, dignity, health, a decent life. Right? And so once you start kind of saying that we’re going to allocate a healthy existence through getting into these few schools — which in many cases means kind of excelling on these standardized tests — you completely deform educational incentives starting pretty far back and then you make the stakes of this process just kind of intolerably high for everyone.jamelle bouieOne thing I want to add to this discussion: just as I think being from Virginia, having attended a public school, part of the solution here in terms of taking pressure and taking the weight off of the scramble to get in to sort of like ultra-elite schools is, in addition to having a more equal society, also having a society where opportunities are just more broadly distributed. To really succeed in a major way you have to kind of uproot yourself from your community and move to a major city, maybe even in a completely different state. It does kind of make it more important, then, to attain some kind of credential that is recognized nationally which is what a Harvard degree is or Yale degree is. But if you can get an education at Virginia Tech and then find an opportunity in Virginia or in North Carolina, things are more regional in terms of the distribution of like elites, then it kind of diffuses all of this tension.ross douthatI mean that was the American system for a long time, that you had some national elite but it was a narrow elite and there were regional elites that you could get into. And I mean I think it is still especially the case in the South. Jamelle you can correct me if I’m wrong, but my sense is that these sort of regional schools have more pull in the South than elsewhere and that on the coasts it sort of all the Ivy hierarchy that people think about.david leonhardtThis is good because I was the most cynical person in the first segment and I think I’m the least cynical person in this segment. I mean to me this is not an illusion of meritocracy it’s a highly flawed meritocracy. And I’m really glad that this scandal is pushing colleges to think more about the ways in which they’re not meritocratic. But the one way in which I think I am supremely cynical is sports. The whole reason that people were able to get these kids in is because of the ludicrously large bonuses that athletes get when applying and the huge share of students at these schools who are athletes. I mentioned this week in my email newsletter that about 20 percent of students at Williams College, an elite college in Massachusetts, are recruited athletes. It turns out I was way too conservative. It’s closer to 30 percent. Thirty percent of entering students at Williams College each year are recruited athletes, and Williams is not some massive outlier. Do you all agree with me that a system in which sports played a smaller role. I’m not saying no role but a smaller role in higher education would be healthy.michelle goldbergI would say no role no role.ross douthatI would say this, I think a world where sports played less of a role at big state schools would be better. I think there’s a lot of evidence that the effects of big time sports, big time college programs on campus culture is really toxic. I think having jocks at elite schools is fine.david leonhardtSo Ross you think the current level is is O.K.? You think having 25 or 30 percent of students at these schools be recruited athletes, many in sports that no one goes out to watch, many in sports that are overwhelmingly white and affluent, that’s O.K.?ross douthatI mean look if you’re asking would I cut it in order to have big quotas for conservative Catholics, of course. Of course I would. [GOLDBERG AND LEONHARDT LAUGH]michelle goldbergSo you know everyone knows that I am a sports hater. But instead of sort of lowering the stakes by offering more routes into these kind of elite schools, it seems to me that this sports culture just ends up kind of raising them by expecting kids to excel along all these different axes or expecting them to prove some like really fraudulent kind of well-roundedness. I feel like you talk to people — and I wasn’t part of this culture at all. I mean I don’t think I even really knew what the Ivy League schools were when I was applying to school. There was nobody really shepherding me through this process. And so I’m sort of an outsider to it. But now I’m a parent and the thing that I dread for my child, for my children the most is sort of trying to put them through all of these different paces or make them spend you know their one and only adolescence engaging in kind of pointless extracurricular activities or test prepping or doing all of the things that get you ready for this Hunger Games competition. And so it seems like we’ve created this culture where just like entire families are supposed to orient their lives to getting through a process that is both sort of corrupted and pointless. You know it’s not just about how we create the elite. It’s such a profound waste of time and energy and, you know, the limited number of days we have on this earth.ross douthatI think we’re all parents whose kids are thankfully too young to be fully immersed in this madness. But the truth is you know that we can joke about the idea of replacing the system with a lottery but frankly wouldn’t it be kind of fantastic if it was just this totally random lottery and there was nothing you could do as a parent.david leonhardtAnd on that utopian note we will leave this discussion. Jamelle thank you so much for joining us.jamelle bouieThank you so much for having me.david leonhardtNow it’s time for our weekly recommendation when we give you a suggestion of something to take your mind off of politics. This week it’s your turn, Michelle. What do you have for us?michelle goldbergSo I’m a little late to this but I’m going to recommend the ABC podcast “The Dropout.” It’s a series about Elizabeth Holmes and a kind of ginormous scam that was Theranos. And it is one of the great scams of our age. You know probably a lot of our listeners know this, right, it was meant to revolutionize the way blood tests were done and revolutionize the health care sector. And it had all these super powerful people investing in it. And she had like little Theranos clinics set up in Walgreens and it was just a total scam. It just didn’t work. And it’s this amazing thing because you listen as all of these people inside the company know that this thing doesn’t work. They know that it’s a scam. And yet it gets bigger and bigger. She’s on more and more magazine covers. She’s interviewed by Bill Clinton at the Clinton Global Initiative. You know she becomes the youngest ever female self-made billionaire. And it’s all built on nothing. And yet and it took so long to come out. I mean it’s both you know sort of a fascinating story in its own right and such a perfect metaphor for our age of grift.david leonhardtWell I’ve listened to it too and I really liked it. And at one point I thought to myself oh my goodness if someone were trying to prank Silicon Valley to come up with the biggest cliche of a company that was just a scam, Ttis is what they do. I mean they’d dress like Steve Jobs the way she did.michelle goldbergRight.david leonhardtThe one thing I think it’s important to add is that much of this is based on reporting by John Carreyrou of the Wall Street Journal and he has a book out on the scandal called “Bad Blood.” And although I haven’t read it a couple of friends of mine have and they say it’s great and it’s an enormously quick read. So there’s the documentary. There’s the book and there’s the podcast.ross douthatMy wife has read the book and I highly recommend it. So I can recommend it by proxy.david leonhardtExcellent. Michelle again what’s the name of the podcast.michelle goldbergIt’s called “The Dropout.“.david leonhardtWe’re going to end this week’s episode by hearing from you our listeners. A lot of you had strong opinions about our episode last week and we wanted to take a moment to give you a chance to air your grievances and opinions. Here goes.listener voicemailsHey guys. Hi, my name is Summer. Hi, my name’s Kathy Keeler. Hi my name’s Jonathan Power. Hey this is Amir calling from Los Angele,s California. I’m calling about Ross’s love of Spindriff. I just wanted to say when Ross was recommending Spindriff at the end of the episode — I was just listening to the bit at the end of the episode where you’re talking about sparkling water. Ross, your idea about seltzer water is one of the best recommendations I’ve heard. I just wanted to reinforce our amazing Spindrift is wrong. Ross, I appreciate your recommendation for Spindrift and at the same time, you don’t need a blind taste test to explain why or how it tastes better. The reason it can’t play better is because it actually has literal fruit juice in it. It has three grams of sugar in each can. That’s stuff’s pretty good but it’s unfair to make that like your favorite because it’s sweetened. It has fruit juice in it. I wanted to just say one word to you: SodaStream. I love the seltzer it makes and you can also control the amount of bubbles. You’ll be helping the environment, saving yourself some money and also having as much bubbles as you like. Kroger has these cola flavored sparkling waters. [DOUTHAT AND LEONHARDT LAUGH] They have regular cola, Dr. Pepper and root beer. So those are my favorite. Enjoy, bye bye. I hope you all have a great day! Thanks. That’s my recommendation this week. Thanks. Thanks guys I love the podcast. [ALL LAUGH]ross douthatSo we’re starting a self-serving podcast obviously. It’s going to be all seltzer.david leonhardtApparently we already have.michelle goldbergAnd after that, as you guys know, after that podcast I became a convert. You know it’s the only time I think I will ever say that Ross was totally right.david leonhardtA convert not just to seltzer but to Spindrift?michelle goldbergYeah not to Catholicism.david leonhardtOr conservatism.ross douthatIt’s a gateway drug Michelle.david leonhardtHere let me leave you all with this. [CAN OPENING, BUBBLES FIZZING SOUND] As you can obviously tell we like to hear your feedback so please leave us a voicemail at 347-915-4324. That’s 347-915-4324. No doubt there are a few seltzer brands that we have not yet mentioned on this show. You can also email us at argument@nytimes.com. If you like what you hear we would very much like it if you would leave us a reading or review in Apple podcasts. This week’s show was produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. Our theme was composed by Allison Leyton-Brown. We will see you back here next week. Ross have you listened to it?ross douthatI only listened to our podcast, David. [GOLDBER G AND LEONHARDT LAUGH] Has it been on our podcast?Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Apple Podcasts | Spotify | Google Play | RadioPublic | StitcherThis week on “The Argument,” how much blame does President Trump deserve for white supremacist attacks like the New Zealand mosque shooting? Michelle Goldberg argues that the president bridges racist ideology and the internet’s nihilistic troll culture. Ross Douthat thinks European anxieties toward immigrants and Islam have gone global. David Leonhardt points to data that shows rising hate crimes and racist speech parallel to Trump’s rise. And returning guest Jamelle Bouie likens Trump to Andrew Johnson, a president whose indifference toward racist violence helped embolden it.Then, the four columnists debate what a fairer system of higher education might look like. In the wake of the Operation Varsity Blues college admissions scandal, how should meritocracy, elitism and college sports be handled?And finally, Michelle recommends a recent podcast that spotlights yet another chapter in this American age of grift.Background Reading:Ross on the college admissions scandal, the WASPs and the case against meritocracyMichelle on the college admissions scandal, Elizabeth Holmes and our scam economyDavid on Trump’s encouragement for white-nationalist violence, Trump’s history of racism and the college admissions scandal as sports scandalJamelle on white supremacy and the New Zealand shooting and how Trump channels reactionary white majoritarianismI’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife.I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter.I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot.My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy.Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter. This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThere are notable differences between the two presidents, but there are also striking similarities. By Tom BrokawMr. Brokaw, a senior correspondent for NBC News, covered the Nixon White House.It’s not often that while watching a congressional hearing on television a French expression pops into my mind. But the appearance of President Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, before a House committee last week sent me, as a veteran of Watergate, to the dictionary to look up “plus ça change, plus c’est la même chose” — “the more things change, the more they stay the same.”Mr. Cohen’s testimony took me back to the summer of 1973, when I was moving to Washington to become NBC’s White House correspondent. Specifically, to the testimony of a former White House counsel, John Dean, and his description of President Richard Nixon’s knowledge of the Watergate affair. Mr. Dean, like Mr. Cohen, had once been a confidant of a vindictive president who turned on him.The memory brought to mind the many parallels between the two presidents. There are their top aides lost to scandal. For Mr. Nixon: H.R. Haldeman, John Ehrlichman, John Mitchell, Egil Krogh, Dwight Chapin, Jeb Stuart Magruder, Charles Colson and other lesser members of the team who were caught up in the Watergate scandal. For Mr. Trump: Michael Flynn, Tom Price, Scott Pruitt and Ryan Zinke, who were forced out in scandal — not to mention a long list, sure to grow yet longer, of people who have resigned in shame or out of disgust.There are the odd bedfellow celebrity allies. Mr. Nixon was famously befriended by Elvis Presley, who wanted to help in the war on drugs. Mr. Trump welcomed the rapper Kanye West to the White House, where they talked about prison reform, running shoes and the power of Make America Great Again caps.Tax issues plague Mr. Trump as they did Mr. Nixon. After Mr. Nixon reported he paid less than $1,600 in total federal taxes in 1970 and 1971, when his annual salary was about $200,000, he had a tortured explanation and famously said, “I am not a crook!” Eventually he wrote big checks for what he should have paid.Mr. Trump’s income tax returns remain a mystery. We have no accurate idea of the financial conflicts between his job as president and his continuing connection to his company’s global network of real estate holdings, hotels and resorts. The Times has also reported that he engaged in “dubious” tax practices that may have included fraud. And during his testimony on Capitol Hill last week, Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump on a number of occasions underreported his earnings to avoid paying taxes. And like Mr. Trump, Mr. Nixon hated the press. We’ve seen on a weekly basis how Mr. Trump labels critical reporting “fake news” and belittles reporters and news organizations as “enemies of the people.” When Mr. Nixon lost the White House to John Kennedy in 1960 and then lost the California governor’s race two years later, he called a news conference and angrily announced, “You won’t have Dick Nixon to kick around anymore!” As president, he ordered investigations of prominent journalists and placed others on an enemies list.Yet for all their similarities, the two men had important differences. Mr. Nixon was a globalist who saw opportunities to effect great change. With Henry Kissinger, he initiated the reopening of relations with China and détente with Russia, and wound down the war in Vietnam. He ended the draft and made military service voluntary. In the midst of Watergate in 1973, the president and Mr. Kissinger organized a daring military relief movement for Israel when it was not prepared for an attack by Egypt and Syria, backed by Russia.Prime Minister Golda Meir of Israel was so grateful, she referred to Mr. Nixon as “my president.”At home, Mr. Nixon got Congress to approve a $100 million war on cancer and created the Environmental Protection Agency, a move that still rankles many conservatives. And he filled his cabinet with Republican notables, including George Shultz, Caspar Weinberger, Pete Peterson, Elliot Richardson, Melvin Laird and James Schlesinger.As for President Trump, his foreign policy appears to be a day-to-day proposition with heavy emphasis on controlling refugees at the southern border. He’s tougher on longstanding European allies than on, say, Saudi Arabia or even President Vladimir Putin of Russia. He has had success with China on tariffs but says little about China’s ambitions for new routes to the Middle East. His warm words for North Korea’s notorious dictator, Kim Jong-un, did him little good at their recent summit, which broke down almost immediately.On the domestic front, he delivered tax cuts with the help of the Republican-controlled Congress but failed to get that same Congress to go along with his promised public-works program or to repeal Obamacare.Richard Nixon and Donald Trump arrived at the White House from entirely different personal and political experiences. But they may share a common fate. The work of the Watergate special prosecutor helped cut short Mr. Nixon’s presidency.Will the special counsel, Robert Mueller, do the same to Mr. Trump? Tom Brokaw, a special correspondent for NBC News, is the author, most recently, of “A Lucky Life Interrupted: A Memoir of Hope.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byIn this drama, the stakes are enormous. By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistThe Trump-Russia story is a drama that has unfolded in four acts.George Stephanopoulos: “Are there any ties between Mr. Trump, you or your campaign and Putin and his regime?”Paul Manafort: “No, there are not. That’s absurd.” — July 24, 2016 Donald Trump: “I have nothing to do with Russia. I don’t have any jobs in Russia. I’m all over the world, but we’re not involved in Russia.” — July 26, 2016Hope Hicks: “There was no communication between the campaign and any foreign entity during the campaign.” — Nov. 11, 2016Chris Wallace asks if there were any contacts between the Trump campaign and Russia.Mike Pence: “Of course not. Why would there be?” — Jan. 15, 2017 “There were contacts,” according to a Russian official. — N.Y. Times, Nov. 10, 2016“Trump campaign had at least 18 undisclosed contacts with Russians.” — Reuters, May 18, 2017“Members of the Trump campaign interacted with Russians at least 32 times.” — The Washington Post, Nov. 13, 2017“Trump and his associates had more than 100 contacts with Russians before the inauguration.” — N.Y. Times, Jan. 26, 2019“Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election.” — U.S. Intelligence Community assessment, Jan. 6, 2017Russian agents purchased advertising on Facebook and distributed inflammatory posts that reached at least 126 million Facebook users. The Russians published more than 131,000 messages on Twitter and uploaded more than 1,000 videos on YouTube. — Statements by the companies prepared for congressional hearings, October 2017.Russian intelligence conspired “to gain unauthorized access (to ‘hack’) into the computers of U.S. persons and entities involved in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, steal documents from those computers, and stage releases of the stolen documents to interfere with the 2016 U.S. presidential election.” — Indictment of 12 Russians, July 13, 2018President Trump acknowledges that even as his presidential campaign was underway in 2016, his business was in discussions with Russia about building a Trump property in Moscow. — N.Y. Times interview, Jan. 31, 2019Paul Manafort tells prosecutors on undisclosed date or dates that he had repeated talks with a Russian, Konstantin Kilimnik, who is believed to have ties to Russian military intelligence. Kilimnik flew to New York for one crucial dinner meeting on Aug. 2, 2016, while Manafort was Trump’s campaign chairman, and they discussed a peace proposal for Ukraine that would resolve the dispute over Putin’s intervention there. This issue was high on Putin’s agenda.Manafort may also have handed over confidential polling data to Kilimnik; it’s not clear if this could have been used for Russian interference in the U.S. election.A federal prosecutor, Andrew Weissmann, says on Feb. 4, 2019, “This goes, I think, very much to the heart of what the special counsel’s office is investigating.”Manafort and Kilimnik left the Aug. 2 meeting separately by different exits.“I have been living in a personal and mental incarceration ever since the fateful day that I accepted the offer to work for a famous real estate mogul whose business acumen I truly admired. … It was my own weakness, and a blind loyalty to this man that led me to choose a path of darkness over light.“It is for these reasons I chose to participate in the illicit act of the president rather than to listen to my own inner voice, which should have warned me that the campaign finance violations that I later pled guilty to were insidious. … Most all, I want to apologize to the people of the United States. You deserve to know the truth, and lying to you was unjust.” — Michael Cohen, statement to the court, Dec. 12, 2018, after earlier confessing to lying to Congress about Trump’s investment interest in RussiaA recent Washington Post/Schar poll found that 43 percent of Americans still are skeptical that Russia interfered with the 2016 election. That should no longer be in doubt.What isn’t clear is the role that the Trump campaign played, if any, in that interference.What we do know is that there were more than 100 contacts between Russia and the Trump campaign; moreover, Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has shown that four people in Trump’s orbit lied about contacts with Moscow.Unlike a play, the stakes here are enormous: This drama is about the integrity of America’s political system. We should be careful about assuming we can predict the ending, but I keep coming back to Vice President Pence’s excellent question when he denied — falsely — that there had been any contacts between Russia and the Trump campaign: “Why would there be?”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.  @NickKristof • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementtranscriptWith Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David LeonhardtAnd what Amazon abandoning New York means for the city — and the country.Thursday, February 21st, 2019michelle goldbergI’m Michelle Goldberg.ross douthatI’m Ross Douthat.david leonhardtI’m David Leonhardt, and this is “The Argument.” This week:news clipThe White House is strongly defending President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the U.S.-Mexico border.david leonhardtIs Donald Trump a national emergency?ross douthatAnd what’s happening with Trump is that he’s got his fingers on the burner and he keeps twisting the knob in random directions.david leonhardtThen Amazon is pulling out of Queens. Is that a good thing?mara gayYou want to come to New York City? Well, so does the rest of the world. Get a number.david leonhardtAnd finally, a recommendation.michelle goldbergI hear the same thing over and over and over again: that I just have to read it. And so I will.david leonhardtLast week President Trump finally did what he’d been threatening to do for weeks. He declared a national emergency to fund a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border.donald trumpWe’re talking about an invasion of our country with drugs, with human traffickers, with all types of criminals and gangs.david leonhardtDemocrats and even some Republicans condemned the move, calling it an unconstitutional abuse of his authority. Sixteen states are now suing to block the declaration. This whole fight plays into one of the big questions that Ross, Michelle and I have about Trump. Is he a frightening authoritarian president, or a flailing incompetent president? And I must say the national emergency pushes me toward the incompetent option. It’s still not clear that the wall will ever be built or if it is, that it will really affect immigration policy. Trump doesn’t have anywhere near unified Republican support on it either. So I take this as another sign of Trump’s weakness. And Michelle I’m wondering if you think I’m being too blasé?michelle goldbergYou know, I go back and forth, right? You said like, is he a frightening authoritarian or flailing incompetent? Or I don’t remember the exact language, but I think the answer is both. And when you look at other countries that have undergone this transformation from a liberal democracy to authoritarianism, you know, it doesn’t happen all in one fell swoop. And it often happens over a period of years. So on the one hand it seems like Trump is too weak and kind of disengaged from the details of governing to actually institute this transformation. At the same time he has hollowed out a lot of the government. He has normalized a kind of authoritarian rhetoric that used to be unprecedented. And he has normalized, I think, this sort of like extra-legal mode of governing. And so, you know, part of what’s happened with Trump — we talk about this all the time — is this frog-in-a-pot phenomenon, where actions that would have created a huge amount of shock and outrage a year ago or two years ago we now have become inured to. And so everybody rolls their eyes when, for example, he accuses the former acting director of the FBI of treason. And so while this emergency declaration maybe isn’t that scary, it’s going to make it that much easier for him to do the next one. And the next one might be in circumstances that are a lot more alarming.ross douthatI want to take Michelle’s metaphor and suggest something a little different with it. Which is that basically, over the course of multiple presidencies, when it comes to executive power and what we call the “imperial presidency,” we’ve been in a kind of boiling-the-frog situation, where you had this immense consolidation of executive power over foreign policy and national security after 9/11 that George W. Bush pushed and then Barack Obama basically embraced. And then you had a substantial expansion, checked by the courts in various ways, of presidential power over domestic policy pushed by Obama in his second term around health care and climate policy and immigration. So that was sort of the frog being boiled slowly. And what’s happening with Trump is that he’s got his fingers on the burner and he keeps twisting the knob in random directions. And so the heat keeps flaring up and the frog keeps jumping around, even though the water isn’t necessarily getting hotter. Is this — this may be a terrible metaphor. But what I’m trying to say is that I think the real danger here, the more plausible danger, is that you have really politically effective presidents who make power grabs that work. And what Trump is doing is sort of exposing how that works by being really crude and ridiculous about it. And I think it’s actually weakening the imperial presidency in various ways and making an authoritarian scenario less likely than it would be under a more sophisticated future imperial president.michelle goldbergAnd you think that’s a danger?ross douthatI think that — I think that the danger over the long run is basically that American democracy, the constitutional system, is devolving into this order with a vestigial legislature that doesn’t really do anything and an executive that claims more and more power because nobody else is claiming that power and then ends up getting in endless fights with the Supreme Court. And I think that dynamic has continued under Trump. I just think it’s more overt and transparent and crude. And so people are much more aware of it and Trump isn’t as good at doing what Bush and Obama did: cloaking his power grabs in sort of, you know, consensus-oriented rhetoric and so on, and so people are just more aware of what’s actually happening.michelle goldbergOne of the fundamentally frightening things about this wall declaration is that it’s based on a racist lie. And you know this is — sort of a hallmark of authoritarian governments is that they both, you know, kind of make up lies and then create government policies to instantiate those lies. And that’s very, very different from Obama going around Mitch McConnell to establish DACA.david leonhardtAnd that actually is my number one fear here, which is — I agree with you Michelle. This is based on a racist lie. And there’s another court case which is similar. It’s the attempt to add a question to the census about citizenship status, in which the administration’s lies have now been documented in federal court. And I do worry a little bit about this idea that the president makes up some lie and then the courts feel some need to say well, we’ll meet you halfway. That is my one fear here.ross douthatSo, I mean, again this — I think this is a really interesting question, right? Because I agree that Trump is a more transparent and flagrant liar than any normal president would be. And that is a big change. At the same time it’s not clear to me why it’s more worrisome to have a president who tells big flagrant lies and then when he can’t get the funding he wants from Congress, appropriates some extra funding to build a few more miles of fencing along the Rio Grande or in the border area. Why is that more terrifying than a president who basically says, I can just ignore Congress and launch military interventions overseas without congressional authority? Which is what Obama did in Libya. I mean I understand why the lies are more frightening but at the same time the actual policies are a much bigger deal.david leonhardtBut I guess I feel — and Michelle I assume you agree — that when presidents are dealing in reality as Obama did, it’s quite different from when they’re making up an emergency and trying to do it. So to me it’s not so much the length of the fence he’s building, it’s that he is inventing out of whole cloth a security crisis on the border and trying to do something to respond to that for political reasons. Whereas you are really upset that Obama overreached on climate but Obama wasn’t making up climate change when he pushed the boundaries of his executive authority. And I sort of don’t think you can ignore that distinction.michelle goldbergYeah. It’s, whether this is just a sort of pretext to, again, instantiate his hallucinatory vision of the world and the — I mean part of our fundamental difference here is that, you know, my feeling is that the threat to American liberal democracy has come not just from Trump but from the Republican Party writ large. And so to me Barack Obama was responding to a broader breakdown in the Republican Party’s willingness to let non-Republicans govern, you know? I just, I don’t think you can blame Barack Obama for claiming unilateral power — or at least I wouldn’t blame Barack Obama for kind of claiming whatever unilateral power he could, when you saw Republicans who had basically decided that Democrats don’t have the right to govern and they are going to do anything that they can to stop Democrats from governing.ross douthatBut, but that is literally the argument for like Julius Caesar crossing the Rubicon. Right? Like it’s, it’s not Caesar’s fault that the Senate is this nest of corruption and vice that unfairly wants to prosecute him when he was just fighting wars for the glory of Rome. And so he has no choice but to march on the capital. And I want to be clear, just to be more provocative still, there is a case there, right? Like there is an argument that in fact the evolution of the imperial presidency is just necessary. Right? That like America is not really a republic anymore. We really are just an empire. You need a president who can declare national emergencies willy nilly and so on because that’s the only way anything ever gets done. And the legislature basically exists, should exist, as like a mild check on executive overreach.michelle goldbergNo, I’m not going down that road with you. Right? I’m not making that argument. I’m making this argument against treating the two parties — and their obstructionism and their sort of willingness to subvert norms of liberal democracy — I think that there’s no argument for treating them as symmetrical. And so, you know, again because I think that the Republican Party itself has become this authoritarian illiberal anti-democratic movement, you know, I place most of the blame for the breakdown in the separation of powers with them.david leonhardtSo I want to think about this in the context of another headline this week which is that Andrew McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director, has admitted that he and his colleagues at the Justice Department talked about using the 25th amendment to remove President Trump from office. And Trump has fired back by accusing of McCabe and accusing his own Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein of treason, which is kind of amazing, his own deputy attorney general. So Ross I know on some level you really do think Trump is different from Obama or Bush. I mean you wrote a column —ross douthatI endorse — I endorse treason.david leonhardtYou endorse the McCabe option, as it were. So are you still there? Do you still think that the 25th amendment in which the cabinet and vice president vote to remove the president should be something that’s on the table?ross douthatI think that the argument there actually flows from what I was just sort of provocatively saying to Michelle, right? Which is that the more imperial the presidency becomes, the more important it is that the man who actually holds that immense power is sort of at least semi-competent to exercise it. And so that that would be the sort of the Caesar-est case for using the 25th amendment to remove ineffective Caesars. But I have a lot of sympathy for whatever was going through McCabe’s mind and other people in the Justice Department, because obviously I was writing this, you know, “Consider the 25th Amendment” column around that time. And that was in the first couple months of Trump’s administration when there was this period when everything was chaos. And then he fired Comey which was an objectively kind of insane thing to do and obvious at the time. It created the whole Mueller investigation, basically. And then he was — it looked like he was about to fire Sessions. And to me at that moment he gave the appearance of a man incapable of exercising the office of the presidency. Now here we are two years later and I think it’s clear that as unfit as he remains, people around him — like he didn’t fire Sessions, right? He hasn’t fired — he hasn’t tried to fire Mueller —michelle goldbergWell, he did.ross douthatHe hasn’t — well he —.michelle goldbergHe did fire Sessions.ross douthatHe fired him in a normal, sort of, after 18 months, you know, get a replacement lined up kind of way, rather than in this sort of insane cascading behavior way. So I think there’s evidence from the last two years that people around Trump have been able to restrain and channel him in ways that strongly weakens, if you will, the argument for removing him via the 25th Amendment. I wouldn’t write the column in the same way today.michelle goldbergBut this is like a classic sort of frog-in-the-pot argument, right? Because everything that people were afraid of happening at that moment happened, it just took longer than people anticipated, right? So he has sort of defenestrated all of the leadership of the F.B.I. and many of the intelligence agencies. It’s taken him longer but he has slowly removed all of these possible checks on his power. You know Rod Rosenstein is about to leave. We have this new Attorney General William Barr who is now refusing to recuse himself and whose kind of previous claim to fame was the role he played in the pardon of various people who’d been convicted for their role in Iran Contra. Right? So we’re getting to the point where he’s kind of creating this structure of impunity. It’s just that rather than taking a few months, it’s taken a couple of years.ross douthatI guess I think that when it comes to the 25th Amendment — which is, again for listeners who don’t know, a mechanism to remove the president for incapacity — there is actually a big difference between the scale of chaos involved in those first few months and where Trump is now. I think where Trump is now, having removed some of the obstacles to his power, if he then does proceed to do things like fire Mueller or anything else like that then the mechanism in response, the natural mechanism would be impeachment, not the 25th Amendment, because his behavior would suggest a man who is sort of in control of his own actions just in a malign way. If that distinction makes sense. So I think I think even if Michelle’s worst case scenario is right then we aren’t in 25th Amendment territory, we’re in impeachment territory.david leonhardtLet’s end where we started, with the wall. What do you each thinks actually going to happen? Are the courts going to block the wall or let some version of it go through? Michelle?michelle goldbergYou know I think that we have gotten really used to kind of relying on the courts to check Trump’s authoritarian impulses. But one thing that’s been happening over the last two years has been the transformation of the courts including, you know, putting Kavanaugh — who has shown himself to be a total partisan hack — on to the Supreme Court. And so you know, who knows? I mean hopefully Chief Justice Roberts will want to maintain some sort of institutional legitimacy. But I think that that institutional legitimacy is less and less of a safeguard with each new judge who’s confirmed.david leonhardtRoss?ross douthatI think Trump does a little bit of building under his claims of power, under existing law. The emergency declaration is still being litigated in the courts when Bernard Sanders is sworn in as the next president of the United States. [LEONHARDT LAUGHS]david leonhardtAnd obviously part of that is what Trump wants, right? Clearly Trump wants the wall to campaign on in 2020 and so he wants to both be able to say he’s made progress on it but also that he’s been stymied enough that he needs to be reelected in order to finish the wall.ross douthat“Finish the wall” is the new slogan, yes.david leonhardtO.K., we will leave it there. No doubt we’ll be coming back to a bunch of these related topics including what William Barr does as attorney general because I think the way he decides to oversee the Mueller investigation, as both of you mentioned, is going to be one of the really big questions for the beginning of his term. We’re going to take a quick break right now and we will be back to talk about Amazon and New York City. We’re back and now we’re going to talk about Amazon. The company announced last week that it was abandoning its plans to build a major office complex in Long Island City Queens.news clipThe company abruptly announced it’s pulling out after growing opposition from some lawmakers, union leaders and activists.david leonhardtAmazon decided that it would be too difficult to deal with the progressive politicians and activists in New York who are criticizing the corporate subsidies that the company received to come to the city. Those progressives, not surprisingly, have been celebrating Amazon’s decision. But many other people are worried that New York has needlessly damaged its own economy by scaring away Amazon. Joining us to talk about Amazon this week is Mara Gay, our colleague in Opinion who writes about New York for The Times editorial board. Mara, welcome back to “The Argument.”mara gayThanks for having me.david leonhardtSo help us understand particularly why The Times editorial board was quite disappointed by the outcome here.mara gaySure. So we actually weighed in twice. First when the deal was immediately announced saying that the deal was not a good deal. We didn’t think that there was enough public input and that Amazon didn’t actually give the city enough of what it needs in terms of infrastructure and transit needs. But the decision by Amazon last week, the very abrupt decision to pull out of New York was very disappointing. And we felt that the city was hostile and inhospitable to even having a conversation with Amazon about how to make the best deal that we could get over the next year. There was supposed to be a year long process by which the city and the state and Amazon the company would sit down and they would hammer out the details of how to get the best out of the deal for all sides. And that never happened because there was a lot of kind of grandstanding by some local elected officials who felt that they had been cut out of the deal. And a lot of them also are our newly-elected progressives who felt that they didn’t think this really wealthy company should get these huge incentive packages in general and they had a lot of problems with the fact that the deal was done kind of in secret behind closed doors and then presented to the public with no input. And we were sad to see 25,000 jobs go. We could have had a productive conversation and that didn’t happen.david leonhardtSo I agree there was grandstanding and some of it was silly, right? It was basically capitalism is evil. And I agree that the 25,000 jobs would have helped Queens. And yet I still found myself cheering this because I think this whole game in which companies hold up local governments — which is really taxpayers — for these subsidies, it’s just terrible economic policy. It doesn’t do anything to grow the economy. It just has cities bidding against each other. And so even if New York takes a modest hit — and it’s only modest, it’s 25,000 jobs in a city that has four million jobs — I guess I think there is a larger principle here. And that’s if cities are starting to get a little bit more aggressive about saying no to companies that try to hold them up, I’m really pleased about it. And I think New York did the country a favor here.mara gayYou know, I hear you. I think though that there was a projected 27 billion in revenue from this deal over 20 years. Now even if half of that had materialized that’s money that we could have used as a city to pay for and address just massive infrastructure needs. We need to fix the New York City subway. We need to build housing. I actually think that had the governor and the mayor, who really brokered this deal, had they along with Amazon presented this agreement along with a commitment to address the subway crisis and the housing crisis. Could have been for example — let’s say Amazon gives a gift of half a billion for housing and half a billion for the subway and then the governor commits to spending, you know, half of the projected $27 billion revenue over many years to direct it toward those issues. I think we would be having a very different conversation. But I think that not only our corporations out of touch, but I think that public officials and in this case specifically Governor Cuomo and Mayor de Blasio are extremely out of touch about what people are very concerned about. New York City doesn’t have a jobs problem. It has an income inequality problem. It has a wages problem.michelle goldbergMara so given that, weren’t all those people right to be angry? Right? Because these things that you’re talking about, these commitments to use some of that revenue to fix the subways or to address affordable housing, they weren’t in the plan. And so there was obviously going to be some winners from this proposal. And you know one of the things that’s been interesting to me is seeing the kind of anger of some of the local public housing tenants association that you know wanted this plan and thought there was a lot in it for them. But a lot of other people, right, they had reason to believe that they were going to be priced out of their neighborhood.mara gayYeah.michelle goldbergThey had reason to believe the subways were going to become even more unbearable. And I think people who were maybe outside New York City — one of the things, I don’t know how much it filters through, is how the kind of complete breakdown of the reliability of subways has completely changed the texture of daily life in this city. In my own neighborhood there has been such a lack of investment in like new schools and all sorts of civic infrastructure that you need when there’s an influx of new people. You know my son didn’t get into our zoned kindergarten, for example. And so people who live there have real reason to believe that they’re going to be the losers from this influx of really highly-paid new jobs which aren’t necessarily going to them. And this is coming with no guarantee that this money is going to go back into the community or back into infrastructure.mara gayYeah I think — so those are all great points and I share a lot of those concerns, to be frank. But the process was just beginning. So those were things that we could have addressed through a state land-use process over the next year to year and a half. And I think people didn’t realize that because the deal was done behind closed doors in the middle of the night and was presented to the public and then the governor essentially said, “Here you go! Why aren’t you thanking us?” And very quickly it was clear that they had — all, everyone involved had misjudged what the appetite was here and what the concerns really are. But I have to say that my disappointment was the really gross financial illiteracy in the city and in the state around this notion that we were giving Amazon three billion dollars, as though we were going to hand them $3 billion in cash even though it was a tax benefit. So people on Twitter were saying well now we can use three billion dollars to the subway instead, you know, and they’re cheering. And that’s not quite how it would have worked, right? I don’t want to overstate it but I do think we should definitely think more as a city and state about how to be friendlier to business but also how to negotiate with them to make sure that we’re getting what we need as a state and city.ross douthatThere’s, I think there’s a real fascinating parallel between sort of where a lot of especially newly-elected progressive politicians are with this stuff and where a certain kind of like Tea Party activist was on the right like eight or nine years ago. Right? Where you have this dynamic where you have people, newly elected, who are making arguments effectively against crony capitalism that mix a kind of sincere civic mindedness with a certain kind of economic illiteracy. Right? I think that was sort of present in the Tea Party in spades. And what’s interesting is to read, like I’ve been reading a lot of the conservative critiques of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. You know she’s always the lightning rod but also, you know, some of the other anti-Amazon politicians and these critiques, you know, the conservatives are sort of having a field day making fun of how anti-corporate socialists drove Amazon out of New York. But if this had been some Tea Party legislator who was killing some similar deal in a red state those same conservatives would have been cheering it and a lot of center left pundits would have been like oh look at those Tea Party activists in red states. Or you know, they’re shooting their own economies in the foot once again. And I don’t really have a point exactly — [ALL LAUGH]mara gayNo, no, I think there’s a little bit of strange bedfellows and a lot of kind of interesting philosophical debates going on. But I also think something that has gotten missed by I would say mainstream Democrats is that, locally speaking, a lot of the politicians in New York who came out against this deal most vociferously — these are people who were actually put into office by gentrifiers. By millennials, by middle class and upper middle class highly-educated voters who were upset about Trump but also are, you know, oftentimes — like myself frankly — millennials who are really drawn to big cities like New York but who can’t really afford to live there. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is the perfect example of this. She wasn’t elected by the poorest folks in her district, although some of them voted for her, but but by these gentrifiers. And so my point is that I think that politicians have underestimated the anxiety about that group of people which is large, which is growing, which is pretty powerful when they vote and those are the politicians that now represent them. I mean the house I grew up in is in Prospect Heights in Brooklyn and I could never afford to live there. It’s now a bed and breakfast, O.K. [ALL LAUGH] It’s pretty wild. So we can’t afford to live in the neighborhoods or the cities that we grew up in. But it was this deep anxiety about where people are going to live who aren’t rich but who also don’t live in public housing. I have a friend who’s paying $1,600 a month for a one-bedroom in Astoria and she was terrified of Amazon coming because she can’t afford $3000 a month, which is what she figured it would be and I don’t think she’s crazy. And so that kind of anxiety about affordable housing and about the subway is so real and I think no one in the state certainly not the governor and the mayor have really understood the depth of that and how that affects people’s lives. And that’s partially because they don’t ride the subway which is another story for another time.david leonhardtOne of the most interesting pieces that I read on this was in Wired by Zachary Karabell in which he argued that Amazon will live to regret this, and that if you look at the populist strains that we’re talking about from, really, right, center and left, these tech companies are going to have to grapple with those strains because there are a lot of frustrated people out there. And this was an opportunity to do so. And Amazon’s just in the long term not going to be able to say, oh we might have to get our hands dirty? We’re outta here.mara gayI agree and one of my frustrations with this initial deal is Amazon came into New York City. New York City! And said we’re going to offer you five million dollars for workforce development. [GOLDBERG AND LEONHARDT LAUGH] I just found that — I said, you know and no offense to Kansas but this is not Kansas. And I have a feeling that, you know, you want to come to New York City? Well, so does the rest of the world. Get a number. Pay your full share. [GAY AND GOLDBERG LAUGH] I think a lot of people felt that way. So I think there was a sense by some of, hey since when do we beg people to come to New York? And that’s a larger conversation that’s happening nationally but I hope that there is going to be less hand-wringing, less grandstanding and more thoughtfulness about how to attract the right employers, the right businesses. We don’t want to treat everyone the way that we treated Amazon before the city council. We we want to get better deals out of companies. But what does that look like and and how do you have those conversations?david leonhardtWell Mara, you mentioned de Blasio and Cuomo and even for people who are sympathetic to their criticisms of Amazon, it seems quite clear they didn’t handle this well. And I do really think there’s a big opportunity for politicians on both the right and the left but particularly the left who can kind of channel the unhappiness out there but do it in a more productive and skilled way than they managed to do in this case.mara gayI think that’s right. If nothing else the governor and the mayor learned some lessons here. You can’t just shove these deals down people’s throats.david leonhardtWell Mara, thank you for coming on.mara gayThanks for having me.david leonhardtNow it’s time for our weekly recommendation. Each week we give you a recommendation that helps take your mind off the day-to-day headlines. And this week it’s my turn to make a recommendation. My recommendation is not exactly a secret because it’s been the best-selling book in America for the past three months but it is Michelle Obama’s memoir. More particularly it is the first half or two thirds of her memoir. The last half is interesting if you’re a political junkie, but it’s the kind of memoir we’re used to from political figures. The first half is really quite incredible. It’s extremely honest about her marriage to her husband Barack, about them going through couples counseling. It’s full of these really incredible stories. But the main takeaway I had was really about the power of education. We’re living in this time where I think some people on both the right and the left are skeptical of education and it’s just really clear from this book that education is the engine that changed Michelle Obama’s life. And there’s one anecdote I want to tell which is, she was learning piano and she was learning it on a broken piano from a piano teacher in her low-income neighborhood. But for her first recital she had to go play a non-broken piano and she sits down at the piano and she realizes, wait a second I don’t actually know how to play an non-broken piano. I only have experience playing a piano with chipped keys and I need to figure out how to play this normal piano. And the book is full of anecdotes like that that just give you a sense of what life is like in neighborhoods like the South Side of Chicago and how people like Michelle Obama once in a while manage to overcome that.michelle goldbergYou know, I don’t know why I haven’t read this book yet and part of it is that it still breaks my heart every time I contemplate kind of what we had then in the White House to what we have now. I should kind of be eager to, you know, be reminded of these better people in this better time. But there’s something about it that I’ve been, just like felt resistant about. It’s like reading like a memoir by your parents who died or something. And yet I hear the same thing over and over and over again: that I just have to read it. And so I will.ross douthatIt sounds really interesting. I haven’t read it because I don’t read any books written by politicians or, in this case, first ladies because they’ve gotten very long and the ratio of time it takes to read them versus what you get out of them is not a good ratio. I’m curious — do you think this is the exception? Have you read a lot of other recent politicians books, David, or is this sort of — did you make an exception for the former first lady?david leonhardtI made a partial exception. The other best recent — I normally don’t read them but the other really good one I read, I know he’s now somewhat discredited on both the right and the left, but Tony Blair’s memoir is fantastic. I would say that the parts of this book that are classic political memoir are fine. And if you don’t enjoy reading classic political memoir I wouldn’t encourage you to read those parts of Michelle Obama’s book. I would basically encourage you to pick it up and read the parts until Obama gives his speech at the 2004 Democratic Convention. [ROSS LAUGHS] And if you want to keep going, great. The rest of the book is perfectly good. But the part up to there is really fantastic. And Michelle, I know what you mean but it actually is possible for a little sections to forget that until recently this was the first lady of the United States and just kind of focus on this incredible American story that that is her life. So that’s my recommendation. Start Michelle Obama’s memoir, “Becoming,” and finish it if you want to. Last week in our segment about Brexit we presented you with the three major options on Brexit and we asked you to choose among them. Some of you called in and told us which one you’d pick. Here’s what you had to say:listener voice mailHey my name is Ann. I’m calling from Oregon. Hi this is Armon. I’m calling from Irvine, California. Walter Nickland. My name is Jerome Alexander. My vote, if I were Britain would be to hold another vote using ranked-choice voting. Re-vote would be the best option from what I heard on the podcast. I think it’s clear we need to have another vote. “Soft Brexit” it is. I think that a second referendum is the right choice because, as one of the guests mentioned, the British people did not have all of the necessary information about what actually Brexit means. And that’s my opinion. I always enjoy the show. Bye. Thanks!david leonhardtThat’s our show for this week. If you have thoughts or if you have a question or suggestion for a future episode please leave us a voice mail at 347-915-4324. You can also email us at argument@nytimes.com. If you like what you hear we’d love it if you would leave us a rating or review in Apple Podcasts. This week’s show was produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. Special thanks to Kaiser Health News. Our theme was composed by Allison Leyton-Brown. And a final tip: if you want to hear more about Michelle Obama’s memoir, listen to the episode of our sister podcast, “Still Processing,” that is called “Becoming,” the title of Michelle Obama’s book. See you next week.Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Apple Podcasts | RadioPublic | Stitcher | Spotify | Google PlayFrom bypassing Congress to try to fund a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border, to accusing administration officials of treason, is Donald Trump America’s national emergency? Michelle Goldberg argues that the president’s emergency declaration, premised on a racist lie, turns up the heat on the country’s slow-boil turn toward authoritarianism. Ross Douthat thinks the move exposes Trump’s weakness and that the real threat to American democracy comes from more competent presidents abusing their constitutional authority.Then, Mara Gay of the Times editorial board returns to the show to debate what Amazon’s decision to abandon New York as the site of part of its planned second headquarters means for the city — and the country. David Leonhardt argues that New York bravely took a stand against companies that pit cities against each other in search of tax breaks. Mara agrees that the Amazon deal was flawed, but argues that the revenue it would have generated could have been put toward New York’s housing crisis and failing subway system.And finally, David recommends a case for the power of education from a surprising place: the memoir by the former first lady, Michelle Obama, “Becoming.”Background Reading:Ross on why Obama’s presidential overreach was more dangerous than Trump’s and the 25th amendment solution for removing Trump.David on why New York’s stand against Amazon is good for the country and Trump as weak presidentMichelle on rising American authoritarianism Mara and the Times editorial board on New York’s bad deal with Amazon and the costs of Amazon’s reversalI’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife.I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter.I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot.My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy.Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter. This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media, and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown. Special thanks to Kaiser Health News.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byLive BriefingBy The New York Times• President Trump and Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, failed to reach a deal on denuclearization during their second summit meeting in eight months. “Sometimes you have to walk,” Mr. Trump said after the talks broke down.• Mr. Trump said Mr. Kim was willing to close some but not all nuclear sites in North Korea in exchange for the lifting of all international sanctions.• The leaders were scheduled to have lunch together and sign a joint agreement, but those plans were abruptly called off. After a news conference, Mr. Trump boarded Air Force One to return to Washington.[Read about why the talks collapsed.  Learn who was at the negotiating table. And see the summit meeting unfold in pictures.]A day that started with the promise of a denuclearization deal and talk of an official declaration to end the Korean War ended abruptly, without an accord.“Sometimes you have to walk,” Mr. Trump said at a news conference after the talks fell apart.[When it came to negotiating, the North Koreans were more experienced. Here’s a look at who was on either side of the table.]Mr. Trump said the major sticking point was the lifting of economic sanctions against North Korea. Mr. Kim, the president said, wanted sanctions fully lifted in exchange for dismantling some — but not all — of the North’s nuclear weapons program.“Basically they wanted the sanctions lifted in their entirety and we couldn’t do that,” Mr. Trump said. “They were willing to denuke a large portion of the areas that we want, but we couldn’t give up all of the sanctions for that.”Lifting punishing international sanctions that limit North Korea’s ability to import oil, and to export lucrative goods including coal and seafood, is the North’s primary goal in any negotiation. As a result, the United States sees the sanctions as a critical bargaining chip.Mr. Trump said he and Mr. Kim discussed the closure of North Korea’s main nuclear complex in Yongbyon, and Mr. Kim expressed a willingness to allow the facility to be dismantled.“He would do that but he wants the sanctions for that,” Mr. Trump said. “As you know, there’s plenty left after that. I just felt it wasn’t good.”Yongbyon is the North’s largest facility, but not its only one. At his news conference, Mr. Trump acknowledged that the country had another uranium enrichment plant. North Korea has long been suspected of having uranium enrichment capabilities beyond Yongbyon.Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan fully backed President Trump’s decision to walk from his summit meeting with Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, without an agreement, while South Korea called the move regrettable.“With the strong determination to realize the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, President Trump did not make an easy compromise,” Mr. Abe said, speaking to reporters after a phone call with the American president. “I fully support Mr. Trump’s decision.”Mr. Abe reiterated his desire to meet the North Korean leader and discuss the issue of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea’s agents decades ago. But he has been hawkish on North Korea, championing strong enforcement of sanctions against Pyongyang.In Seoul, the government of President Moon Jae-in, an outspoken supporter of engagement with North Korea, expressed dismay at the breakdown of the Hanoi talks. Mr. Moon spoke with Mr. Trump after the meeting ended.“It is regrettable that they could not reach a complete agreement,” said Kim Eui-kyeom, a spokesman of Mr. Moon. “But it also seems clear that both sides have made more significant progress than ever.”Although the meeting failed to produce an agreement, it has helped Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump “expand the width and depth of understanding what each side needed,” Mr. Moon said. “The prospects for a next meeting are bright given President Trump’s will to continue dialogue and his optimistic views.”China’s foreign minister, Wang Yi, struck a cautious tone at a meeting in Beijing with a senior North Korean diplomat. Chinese state television reported that Mr. Wang said that while difficulties in Trump-Kim talks were unavoidable, China hoped that the dialogue would continue.— Hisako Ueno and Choe Sang-HunMr. Trump said he and Mr. Kim discussed the case of Otto Warmbier, the American college student who died last year after being imprisoned in North Korea.The president defended Mr. Kim, saying he believed the North Korean leader was unaware of the gravity of Mr. Warmbier’s medical condition.“He tells me that he didn’t know about it, and I will take him at his word,” Mr. Trump said on Thursday.Mr. Warmbier, a student at the University of Virginia, was arrested while on a trip to North Korea for stealing a propaganda poster. In 2016 he was sentenced to 15 years hard labor.More than a year later he was released and returned to the United States gravely ill, with doctors saying he suffered a catastrophic brain injury. He died in June 2017.Mr. Trump has taken credit for the return of Mr. Warmbier and a handful of other Americans held in North Korea. In the past, the president has pointed to Mr. Warmbier’s injuries as an example of the Kim regime’s brutality.But on Thursday, Mr. Trump refused to place any blame on Mr. Kim.“I don’t believe that he would have allowed that to happen, it just wasn’t to his advantage to happen,” Mr. Trump said. “Those prisons are rough, they’re rough places, and bad things happened. But I really don’t believe that he, I don’t believe that he knew about it.”—Austin RamzyThursday began without any outward sign that talks were about to break down.President Trump and the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, complimented each other in opening remarks at the Metropole Hotel in Hanoi. Neither predicted any imminent breakthroughs, but their comments did not suggest a summit meeting that would end early, abruptly, and without anything to show for it.“I can’t speak necessarily for today, but I can say a little bit longer term and over a period of time I know we are going to have a fantastic success with respect to chairman Kim and North Korea,” Mr. he said.Mr. Kim was more circumspect. “It’s too early to say,” he said. “I would not say I’m pessimistic.”The two went into a meeting with only their translators present, and were later joined by other officials.The first public sign of trouble was the cancellation of a working lunch. Then the planned signing of a joint agreement was scratched. A closing news conference that was scheduled for 4 p.m. was moved to 2 p.m.The White House officially acknowledged that the meeting had ended without a formal agreement, but offered no explanation, leaving that to the president at his news conference.First came word that Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump’s lunch would be canceled. Then the scheduled signing of a joint agreement was called off. By midday Thursday, it was clear the talks had collapsed.Confusion reigned in the international media center. What was happening? Hundreds of reporters frantically looked for an explanation or a statement from the White House.Once Mr. Trump’s motorcade left the Metropole Hotel, it was clear that the deal was off.At the press center, mild mayhem broke out when reporters from a Japanese news network started interviewing a reporter from Voice of America, a news agency funded by the United States government.A crowd of journalists swarmed the V.O.A. reporter, assuming that she was an official government spokesman. At one point, a reporter who joined the scrum realized that it was just a case of journalists interviewing each other.“You’re just journalists?” she said in disgust. “Oh my god, why did I run over here?” And stormed off.— Motoko RichMr. Kim said that his presence at the summit meeting was a sign of his willingness to denuclearize his country.“If I’m not willing to do that, I won’t be here right now,” he said in response to a reporter’s question on Thursday morning.“That might be the best answer you’ve ever heard,” Mr. Trump replied.“We’ve had very, very productive discussions,” Mr. Trump said before the talks would collapse later that afternoon. “The relationship is as good as it’s ever been, I think better.”When a reporter asked Mr. Kim whether he was willing to take concrete steps toward denuclearization, he said, “That’s what we are discussing right now.”After Mr. Kim said the United States would be welcome to open a liaison office in North Korea, Mr. Trump signaled his interest in the idea. “I actually think it’s a good idea, both ways,” Mr. Trump said.The two countries do not have formal diplomatic relations. United States consular interests in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, are represented by Sweden. North Korea likewise has no embassy in Washington, but its mission at the United Nations in New York is often a channel for diplomacy with the United States.— Austin RamzyFor more breaking news and in-depth reporting, follow @nytimesworld on Twitter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON — President Trump undercut his own Treasury Department on Friday with a sudden announcement that he had rolled back newly imposed North Korea sanctions, appearing to overrule national security experts as a favor to Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader.The move, announced on Twitter, was a remarkable display of dissension within the Trump administration. It created confusion at the highest levels of the federal government, just as the president’s aides were seeking to pressure North Korea into returning to negotiations over dismantling its nuclear weapons program.“It was announced today by the U.S. Treasury that additional large scale Sanctions would be added to those already existing Sanctions on North Korea,” Mr. Trump tweeted. “I have today ordered the withdrawal of those additional Sanctions!”The Treasury Department announced new sanctions on Friday against Iran and Venezuela, but not North Korea.However, economic penalties were imposed on Thursday on two Chinese shipping companies suspected of helping North Korea evade international sanctions. Those penalties, announced with news releases and a White House briefing, were the first imposed against North Korea since late last year and came less than a month after a summit meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim collapsed in Hanoi, Vietnam, without a deal.It was initially believed that Mr. Trump had confused the day that the North Korea sanctions were announced, and officials said they were caught off guard by the president’s tweet. Asked for clarification, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, declined to give specifics.“President Trump likes Chairman Kim, and he doesn’t think these sanctions will be necessary,” she said.Hours later, two officials familiar with Mr. Trump’s thinking said the president was actually referring to additional North Korea sanctions that are under consideration but not yet formally issued.That statement sought to soften the blow that Mr. Trump’s tweet had dealt to his most loyal aides. Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, personally signed off on the sanctions that were issued on Thursday and hailed the decision in an accompanying statement.“The United States and our like-minded partners remain committed to achieving the final, fully verified denuclearization of North Korea,” Mr. Mnuchin said in the statement. He described the sanctions as part of an international campaign against North Korea that “is crucial to a successful outcome.”Sanctions are one of America’s most powerful tools for pressuring rogue nations. Mr. Mnuchin has taken great pride in bolstering Treasury’s sanctions capacity and often says that he spends half of his time working on sanctions matters.Tony Sayegh, a Treasury Department spokesman, referred questions about Friday’s sanctions confusion to the White House.John R. Bolton, the president’s national security adviser, had also hailed the earlier action against North Korea in a tweet on Thursday: “Everyone should take notice and review their own activities to ensure they are not involved in North Korea’s sanctions evasion.”Mr. Trump has been eager to strike a deal for North Korea to surrender its nuclear weapons arsenal and, in turn, hand him a signature foreign policy achievement that has eluded his predecessors. Hawks in the administration, such as Mr. Bolton, have been wary of trusting Mr. Kim despite Mr. Trump’s professed strong personal connection to the North Korean leader.Last month, Mr. Trump was criticized for defending Mr. Kim over the death of Otto F. Warmbier, an American college student who died in 2017 after being imprisoned in North Korea. Mr. Trump said he believed Mr. Kim’s claim that he was not aware of Mr. Warmbier’s medical condition.But in recent weeks there have been increasing signs that the thawing relations between the two countries could again turn frosty.This month, a vice foreign minister of North Korea, Choe Son-hui, accused Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Mr. Bolton of creating an “atmosphere of hostility and mistrust” despite the chemistry between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim.In another sign of hardening on Friday, North Korea withdrew its staff from the joint liaison office it has operated with South Korea since September. The office was viewed as a potential first step toward the Koreas establishing diplomatic missions in each other’s capitals. But North Korea has expressed frustration with how South Korea has been handling its role as a mediator with the United States.The talks between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim broke down because North Korea wanted the United States to roll back some of its most economically painful sanctions without the North immediately dismantling its nuclear program.As the linchpin of the global financial system, the United States relies on sanctions as one of its most powerful tools for international diplomacy. Officials at the Treasury and State Departments, including career staff members and political appointees, spend months carefully drafting sanctions based on intensive intelligence gathering and legal research.The North Korea sanctions were no different, and the White House held a formal briefing on Thursday afternoon to explain the rationale behind the actions.During the briefing, senior administration officials pushed back on the idea that the sanctions sought to increase pressure on North Korea. Instead, they said, the new measures were meant to maintain the strength of existing sanctions.But one of the senior administration officials strongly rebutted any suggestion that the administration would ease some sanctions as confidence building, or in return for smaller steps by North Korea.“It would be a mistake to interpret the policy as being one of a step by step approach, where we release some sanctions in return for piecemeal steps toward denuclearization” said the administration official, who spoke to reporters on the condition of anonymity. “That is not a winning formula and it is not the president’s strategy.”While it is not unusual for the White House to have comment and even final approval of major sanctions, both Republican and Democratic lawmakers have expressed doubts about Mr. Trump’s ability to execute sanctions policy responsibly.In 2017, Congress passed legislation imposing sanctions on Russia and limiting the president’s authority to lift them. Under pressure from his own party, Mr. Trump reluctantly signed the bill.The reversal on the North Korea sanctions drew swift condemnation on Friday from Democrats, who accused the president of being reckless with national security.“Career experts at the Treasury Department undertake a painstaking process before imposing sanctions,” said Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee. “For Donald Trump to overturn their decision via tweet because he has an inexplicable fondness for one of the world’s most brutal dictators is appalling.”He added, “Without a well-conceived diplomatic strategy, Trump is simply undermining our national security by making clear that the United States is not a trusted foreign policy partner.”Some Republicans also pushed back against the president, with Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado saying that North Korea sanctions should be imposed. “Strategic Patience failed,” he tweeted. “Don’t repeat it.”Mr. Trump’s decision stunned current and former Treasury Department officials, some of whom wondered if the move was planned in advance as a gesture to Mr. Kim. Others feared that America’s vaunted sanctions regime had been compromised.“For an administration that continues to surprise, this is another first — the president of the United States undercutting his own sanctions agency for imposing sanctions on Chinese actors supporting North Korea,” said John E. Smith, the former director of the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, who left the department last year. “It’s a win for North Korea and China and a loss for U.S. credibility.”Sarah Bloom Raskin, who was deputy Treasury secretary under President Barack Obama, said the sudden backtracking on a decision that would normally be made with comment from intelligence agencies and the National Security Council was perplexing.“Reversing sanctions decisions within hours of making the announcement that you would impose them in the first place is a head-spinner,” she said. “This reversal signals the injection of some peripheral consideration or factor that only the president seems to know about and that may have nothing to do with national security.”The Trump administration did issue some new sanctions on Friday. The Treasury Department announced sanctions against Iran, targeting a research and development unit that it believes could be used to restart the country’s nuclear weapons program. It also imposed sanctions on Bandes, Venezuela’s national development bank, and its subsidiaries, as part of its effort to topple the government of President Nicolás Maduro.Julian Barnes contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Mark Mazzetti and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — He has spent months inside his Park Avenue apartment glued to cable news, his legal bills growing and federal prosecutors amassing evidence against him they would use as leverage.He watched his onetime friend and former boss, now the president of the United States, smear him on Twitter and make vague, public threats about his family.His work for Donald J. Trump, and the lies he told about it, are sending him to prison for years.On Tuesday, his law license was revoked.On Wednesday, Michael D. Cohen exacted his revenge.It was a nasty, public breakup of a New York relationship forged over a decade that was a mix of the bond between a father and son, the professional distance of a lawyer and client, and — as Mr. Cohen and associates have described it — the blind devotion of a henchman to a crime boss.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Alexandra Leigh Young and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa TobinIn an extraordinary public hearing, Donald Trump’s former fixer — once known for being unflinchingly loyal — became the star witness against him.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Michael Cohen is headed to prison for lying on behalf of Donald Trump. Yesterday, he told Congress he’s done protecting the president. It’s Thursday, February 28. Maggie Haberman, how does this hearing actually begin on Wednesday morning?maggie habermanThe hearing began in very dramatic fashion with Elijah Cummings, who chairs the committee, a Democrat, holding the gavel. Michael Cohen walking in through this crush of photographers and reporters, trailed by Lanny Davis, his attorney and sometimes spokesman, trailed by another of his attorneys, not by any member of his family, who I believe he was worried about attending this hearing. He sat down. His face was wan. His eyes were puffy. He looked exhausted, and defeated, and beaten down. And you could hear a pin drop as he sat down.archived recording (elijah cummings)The committee will come to order.maggie habermanSo Cummings out of the gate —archived recording (elijah cummings)I now recognize myself for five minutes to give an opening statement.maggie haberman— addressed the issue of Michael Cohen’s credibility.archived recording (elijah cummings)He admitted to lying about his actions to protect the president. Some will certainly ask, if Mr. Cohen was lying then, why should we believe him now?archived recordingGood question.archived recording (elijah cummings)This is a legitimate question.maggie habermanIt was very clear that Republicans were going to go right at Cohen, accusing him of being a liar, somebody who has admitted to lying, including admitting to lying to Congress when he gave testimony before them in 2017. So Cummings was hoping to put that to bed at the outset.archived recording (elijah cummings)This is an important factor we need to weigh. But we must weigh it, and we must hear from him.michael barbaroAnd Maggie, I found it fascinating what Cummings did at the close of this opening statement. He delivers this message straight to Cohen.archived recording (elijah cummings)Martin Luther King, Mr. Cohen, said some words that I leave with you today before you testify. He said, faith is taking the first step, even when you can’t see the whole staircase. There comes a time when silence becomes betrayal. Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that truly matter. In the end, he says, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.maggie habermanAnd with that quote, he’s trying to set up Michael Cohen’s testimony — why he’s being truthful, that what he said before is a lie, and what he is saying now is the truth. And this was important for him to set this out as a way forward as the hearing began.archived recording (elijah cummings)Raise your right hand. Do you swear or affirm that the testimony that you are about to give is the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God? Let the record show that the witness answered in the affirmative. And thank you, and you may be seated.maggie habermanSo then Michael Cohen begins his opening statement. And it was long.archived recording (michael cohen)I hope my appearance here today, my guilty plea and my work with law enforcement agencies are steps along a path of redemption that will restore faith in me and help this country understand our president better.maggie habermanAnd he began again by apologizing for lying to Congress.archived recording (michael cohen)I am here under oath to correct the record, to answer the committee’s questions truthfully and to offer the American people what I know about President Trump.maggie habermanAnd then he turned to Donald Trump.archived recording (michael cohen)I am ashamed that I chose to take part in concealing Mr. Trump’s illicit acts rather than listening to my own conscience. I am ashamed because I know what Mr. Trump is.maggie habermanAnd he depicted Donald Trump as a unsavory, unethical, immoral character.archived recording (michael cohen)Mr. Trump is a racist. The country has seen Mr. Trump court white supremacists and bigots. You have heard him call poorer countries [expletive]. In private, he is even worse. He once asked me if I can name a country run by a black person that wasn’t a [expletive]. This was when Barack Obama was president of the United States. And while we were once driving through a struggling neighborhood in Chicago, he commented that only black people could live that way. And he told me that black people would never vote for him because they were too stupid.maggie habermanSomebody who told him from the Oval Office, in an Oval Office meeting, that he would be sending him a reimbursement for hush money payments.archived recording (michael cohen)Trump is a con man. He asked me to pay off an adult film star with whom he had an affair and to lie about it to his wife, which I did. And lying to the first lady is one of my biggest regrets.maggie habermanHe portrayed Donald Trump as a cheat.archived recording (michael cohen)And it should come as no surprise that one of my more common responsibilities was that Mr. Trump directed me to call business owners, many of whom are small businesses, that were owed money for their services, and told them that no payment or a reduced payment would be coming. When I told Mr. Trump of my success, he actually reveled in it.maggie habermanAs a schemer, who would inflate his net worth or devalue it, depending on what was useful for him at various points.archived recording (michael cohen)It was my experience that Mr. Trump inflated his total assets when it served his purposes, such as trying to be listed amongst the wealthiest people in Forbes, and deflated his assets to reduce his real estate taxes.maggie habermanAt one point, Michael Cohen told a very detailed story of Donald Trump’s relationship to the Vietnam War. Remember that Donald Trump has said that he had a deferment from the draft because he had, quote, unquote, bone spurs.archived recording (michael cohen)But when I asked for medical records, he gave me none, and said that there was no surgery. He told me not to answer the specific questions by reporters, but rather, offer simply the fact that he received a medical deferment. He finished the conversation with the following comment: “Do you think I’m stupid? I’m not going to Vietnam.”maggie habermanAnd at that moment, Michael Cohen looked directly into the camera.archived recording (michael cohen)And I find it ironic, Mr. President, that you are in Vietnam right now.michael barbaroRight.maggie habermanIt was damning stuff.archived recording (michael cohen)A lot of people have asked me about whether Mr. Trump knew about the release of the hacked documents, the Democratic National Committee emails, ahead of time. And the answer is yes. In July of 2016, days before the Democratic Convention, I was in Mr. Trump’s office when his secretary announced that Roger Stone was on the phone. Mr. Trump put Mr. Stone on the speakerphone. Mr. Stone told Mr. Trump that he had just gotten off the phone with Julian Assange, and that Mr. Assange told Mr. Stone that within a couple of days there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Mr. Trump responded by stating to the effect, wouldn’t that be great.michael barbaroAnd then he brings up, of course, the now-infamous Moscow project.maggie habermanRight.archived recording (michael cohen)I lied to Congress when Mr. Trump stopped negotiating the Moscow tower project in Russia. I stated that we stopped negotiating in January of 2016. That was false. Our negotiations continued for months later during the campaign.maggie habermanHe says that there were, you know, a handful of these conversations that went on into 2016, when it was clear that Donald Trump was going to be the Republican nominee.archived recording (michael cohen)Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates. In conversations we had during the campaign, at the same time I was actively negotiating in Russia for him, he would look me in the eye and tell me, “There’s no Russian business,” and then go on to lie to the American people by saying the same thing. In his way, he was telling me to lie. So to be clear, Mr. Trump knew of and directed the Trump Moscow negotiations throughout the campaign and lied about it.michael barbaroCohen’s almost describing, in this moment, a code, where, if Trump is saying to him, there is no Russia project, it’s almost like saying, there’s no Russia project, right? You’re never going to say there’s a Russia project. It’s like he’s trying to explain a foreign language in which Donald Trump is communicating to him, you should probably lie about this, without having to say it.maggie habermanThat’s exactly right. And he said that in his testimony, made very clear that this is how Donald Trump talks. He sort of knows where the line is, and he doesn’t speak overtly. It is what former federal prosecutors have described as mob speak, the style that mafia bosses speak in to avoid crossing a legal line. And while Michael Cohen did not explicitly say that part, he did say that Donald Trump spoke in a code and that Michael Cohen understood that code.archived recording (michael cohen)He doesn’t give you questions. He doesn’t give you orders. He speaks in a code. And I understand the code, because I’ve been around him for a decade.michael barbaroMaggie, did it come as a surprise to you to hear Michael Cohen saying any of this? You’ve known both of these men for years. And you’ve known them as a unit. What was it like to hear Cohen saying these things about Donald Trump?maggie habermanEven knowing that this was coming, it was mind-blowing hearing Michael Cohen saying this in public. No one who has worked for Trump in recent years has gone on the record to say things like this. And it was staggering. And it was so at odds with the portrait of fealty that Michael Cohen had presented with reporters, with everyone, toward Donald Trump over a decade.michael barbaroMm-hmm.maggie habermanAnd remember, Donald Trump creates an eagerness in people around him to get something of a head pat from him, to get an encouragement, to get an attaboy. Cohen got very skilled at trying for that attaboy.michael barbaroAnd seemed to be kind of addicted to it.maggie habermanAnd seemed to be addicted to it, seemed to revel in it, clearly reveled in his proximity.archived recording (michael cohen)Over the past year or so, I have done some real soul-searching. And I see now that my ambition and the intoxication of Trump power had much to do with the bad decisions, in part, that I made.maggie habermanHe was involved in taking care of messes that Donald Trump wanted taken care of. He was willing to do those things. One of them was payoffs to women. And the notion that somebody who was so closely involved in that would be willing to discuss it publicly, not just behind closed doors with investigators, not just as prosecutors were bearing down on him, but freely, in public, in a hearing, under oath, was just breathtaking.michael barbaroThere’s a moment where Cohen says to the members of the committee —archived recording (michael cohen)The last time I appeared before Congress, I came to protect Mr. Trump. Today —michael barbaroToday, I’m here to tell you the truth —archived recording (michael cohen)I am here to tell the truth about Mr. Trump.michael barbaro— about Mr. Trump. As if to say, the spell has been broken. I’m out of that world now. And I kind of wonder if that’s really possible, but also how it happened.maggie habermanWell, I think it is really possible, because I think their break has been so incredibly clean, given what has happened to Michael Cohen. Remember, when the F.B.I. raided his hotel and apartment and office in April of 2018, he was still standing by Trump. That clearly has changed. We saw Republicans argue that the reason that changed for Michael Cohen was because he was facing charges of his own. And the president has certainly suggested that. Cohen has been utterly stripped of everything that he valued, his business, his law license. He has been humiliated publicly. He has been abandoned by a lot of friends, and by the president, and by the president’s circle. And so I do think that it is certainly a real split. I think that people are going to have to assess, looking at his testimony, whether they think it’s a real conversion, but it’s definitely a real break.archived recording (michael cohen)I am not a perfect man. I have done things I am not proud of. And I will live with the consequences of my actions for the rest of my life. But today, I get to decide the example that I set for my children and how I attempt to change how history will remember me. I may not be able to change the past, but I can do right by the American people here today. And I thank you for your attention. And I’m happy to answer the committee’s questions.archived recording (elijah cummings)Thank you very much, Mr. Cohen. I now recognize myself.michael barbaroSo then the questions begin from the committee members.maggie habermanRight.archived recording (elijah cummings)You said you brought some checks, is that right?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, sir.maggie habermanAnd first we have Cummings asking Cohen to elaborate on the details of these reimbursement checks that he got, that he brought with him.archived recording (elijah cummings)So let me make sure I understand. Donald Trump wrote you a check out of his personal account while he was serving as president of the United States of America to reimburse you for hush money payments to Ms. Clifford, is that what you are telling the American people today?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, Mr. Chairman.maggie habermanAnd it was among the more dramatic moments that we saw. Because Cummings is getting to the fact that the sitting president was part of this scheme that was, at minimum, sleazy and illicit, and at maximum could have some criminal exposure. And they were leaving nothing to doubt as to what Cohen was saying took place.archived recording (elijah cummings)Is there any doubt in your mind that President Trump knew exactly what he was paying for?archived recording (michael cohen)There is no doubt in my mind. And I truly believe there is no doubt in the minds of the people of the United States of America.archived recording (elijah cummings)With that I’ll yield to —maggie habermanJim Jordan, another ally of the president, quoted something that Michael Cohen once said to a reporter from The Daily Beast.archived recording (jim jordan)“I will make sure that you and I meet one day while we’re in the courthouse and I will take you for every penny you still don’t have.”maggie habermanAnd this has now become a famous anecdote, where he threatened a reporter who was pursuing a story about an old court claim from the divorce filing between Ivana Trump and Donald Trump, where she had alleged marital rape. And Cohen said —archived recording (jim jordan)“And I will come after your Daily Beast and everybody else that you possibly know. So I’m warning you — ”maggie haberman“So I’m warning you, tread very f-ing lightly” — it wasn’t f-ing.archived recording (jim jordan)“Because what I’m going to do to you is going to be f-ing disgusting, you understand me?”maggie habermanAnd he was then asked by Jim Jordan, “Mr. Cohen, who said that?”archived recording (jim jordan)Mr. Cohen, who said that?archived recording (michael cohen)I did.maggie habermanAnd it’s an incident that I think he would say that he really was doing for Trump and not for himself. But it was a way to sully his character and create a portrait of thuggishness.archived recording (jim jordan)And did you say that, Mr. Cohen, was that statement that I just read that you admitted to saying, did you do that to protect Donald Trump?archived recording (michael cohen)I did it to protect Mr. Trump, Donald Trump, Jr., Ivanka Trump and Eric Trump.michael barbaroBut I wonder, who does it look worse for, the person who did it, or the person on whose behalf it was done?maggie habermanRight. I understand that Jim Jordan is trying to muddy Michael Cohen with that. But I think for most people, they are going to look at that, and especially after the president takes to Twitter and suggests that people ought to be looking into Michael Cohen’s family, I think most people are still going to see that as looking worse for Trump, because Michael Cohen was doing this as Trump’s lawyer.michael barbaroSo while Republicans are largely avoiding talking about the president at all costs in this hearing, in focusing on sullying Cohen’s character and reputation, they may be actually sullying President Trump’s.maggie habermanCorrect. They were essentially trying to peel Cohen off from Trump. And what became clear as their efforts went on throughout the hearing is that that is impossible to do. When you have had somebody serve as a lawyer for Donald Trump, so identified with him publicly over 10 years, you can’t take a shot at Cohen and not end up having it ricochet onto Trump too.archived recordingSo we’ve established that you lie on your taxes, you lie to banks, and you have been convicted of lying to Congress. It seems to me that there’s not much that you won’t lie about when you stand to gain from it.michael barbaroAnd where do the questions go from here?maggie habermanSo —archived recordingEverything’s been made of your lies in the past. I’m concerned about your lies today.maggie habermanAfter that it became a, you know —archived recordingBut there’s no truth with you whatsoever.maggie haberman— one by one, down the line, Republicans suggesting that Michael Cohen was —archived recordingLiar, liar, pants on fire.maggie habermanReally in it for the fame.archived recordingIs your appearance here today motivated by your desire to remain in the spotlight for your personal benefit?archived recording (michael cohen)No, ma’am.maggie habermanOr he was really in it for the money. They asked him —archived recordingIs there a book deal coming or anything like that?archived recording (michael cohen)I have no book deal right now.maggie habermanOne after the other about prospective book deals or movie deals.archived recordingIsn’t it true you tried to sell a book about your time with President Trump, entitled “Trump Revolution: From the Tower to the White House, Understanding Donald J. Trump“?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, that happened —maggie habermanOr had he pitched a book of his own?michael barbaroAnd what did he say?maggie habermanHe said yes.archived recording (michael cohen)I have been contacted by many, including for television, a movie. If you want to tell me who you would like to play you, I’m more than happy to write the name down.michael barbaroAnd what about the Democrats?archived recording (elijah cummings)Mr. Raskin.archived recording (jamie raskin)Mr. Cohen, thank you for your composure today. Our colleagues are not upset because you lied to Congress for the president. They’re upset because you’ve stopped lying to Congress for the president.maggie habermanThe Democrats tried to keep it really mostly on Trump and the things that Michael Cohen did for Trump.archived recordingAnd nothing at the Trump Organization was ever done unless it was run through President Donald Trump, correct?archived recording (michael cohen)That’s 100 percent certain.archived recordingO.K.maggie habermanHe described, and it was really interesting, he described everybody as being solely devoted to protecting the brand and reputation of one man, Donald Trump. He said that nothing happened at the company unless Donald Trump was aware of it or signed off on it. He argued that Trump was a demanding and exacting and punishing boss. He described the entire effort as being about maximizing the gold-plated version of Donald Trump that we have all become very familiar with.archived recordingThere’s a recurring refrain in your testimony that says, and yet, I continued to work for him. But at some point you changed. What was the breaking point at which you decided to start telling the truth?archived recording (michael cohen)There are several factors — Helsinki, Charlottesville.maggie habermanHe went on this litany of moments that he said disgusted him. There were the president’s comments after Charlottesville, that it was, you know, various instance of discourteous behavior by the president, of untoward behavior toward citizens.archived recording (michael cohen)Watching the daily destruction of our civility to one another, putting up silly things like this.archived recordingOh, that’s silly.archived recording (michael cohen)Really unbecoming of Congress.maggie habermanHe clearly got angry. And then he sort of turned it back on Republicans and said to them, essentially —archived recording (michael cohen)It’s that sort of behavior that I’m responsible for. I’m responsible for your silliness. Because I did the same thing that you’re doing now, for 10 years. I protected Mr. Trump for 10 years.maggie habermanYou are what I was. You are all blindly following him. And there is a real risk to doing that, because you could end up like me someday.archived recording (michael cohen)And I can only warn people, the more people that follow Mr. Trump, as I did blindly, are going to suffer the same consequences that I’m suffering.maggie habermanIt was a gripping and captivating moment.michael barbaroRight, it was a sort of surprising level of self-awareness, and I guess also self-loathing too.maggie habermanIt was both. It was self-effacing. It was clearly uncomfortable. It was acknowledging that he is a deeply imperfect person who did imperfect things that he is not proud of, and he said a version of that earlier in the hearing. But it was really striking, because this is a comment that Republicans who opposed Donald Trump, and they’re not very many of them who are that vocal anymore, but that they have said repeatedly that the Republican Party has become a cult of personality, or just a cult. And that people just blindly follow along with what Donald Trump wants, whether it is wise or not, whether it is safe or not, and whether he is telling the truth or not. And that is what Cohen was getting at.archived recordingWhat do you want your children to know?archived recording (michael cohen)That I’m sorry for everything. And I’m sorry for the pain that I’ve caused them. And um — I wish I could go back in time.archived recordingThank you, I yield back.archived recording (elijah cummings)The gentlelady’s time has expired.michael barbaroMaggie, I wonder if you feel like you understand what’s motivating Michael Cohen throughout this hours-long hearing, to say what he’s saying, to concede what he’s conceding, to kind of humble himself the way he did. He’s been convicted of a crime. He’s headed to prison. He has been disbarred. What exactly is animating him at this point?maggie habermanI think a number of things are animating him. But I think among them is that he doesn’t want to be the leper of this story forever. He said months ago that he does not want to be the villain in the Trump story. And I think that’s how he feels. I think that he does not want to be remembered as this footnote in history. I think he’s going to prison. And I think he doesn’t have a whole lot left to lose. And I think that he would like to try to make people remember other things about him and tell a more nuanced tale.michael barbaroAnd so, what did this hearing, in your mind, achieve? How will this hearing be remembered in this larger story?maggie habermanI think this hearing is either going to be, on its own, just a breathtaking historical moment, the likes of which I don’t know if we’ll ever see again. But it was pretty striking to see. Or it is going to be the initial phases of a much broader, deeper governmental investigation by House Democrats into the Trump presidency, not just his own personal activities, but the activities of his government. And allowing Michael Cohen to have a setting where he talks about these things, and where he can be questioned, and where he is a key starting witness could be the first step in paving the way toward an impeachment process, if that is where Democrats go. If that ends up leading to something bigger, then Democrats will feel as if this was a key foundation for it. But it’s too early to say, I think.archived recording (michael cohen)I have some closing remarks I would like to say myself. Is this an appropriate time?archived recording (elijah cummings)You can do it now.archived recording (michael cohen)Thank you.michael barbaroMaggie, how does this one of hearing finally come to an end?maggie habermanSeven and a half hours after Michael Cohen first entered this room, sitting pretty patiently through all of these questions, not losing his temper, he was given an opportunity to speak not just to the committee members, but to the president.archived recording (michael cohen)In closing, I’d like to say directly to the president, we honor our veterans, even in the rain. You tell the truth, even when it doesn’t aggrandize you.maggie habermanAnd he used that opportunity to send a message to his former boss, saying, you don’t need to be this person.archived recording (michael cohen)You take responsibility for your own dirty deeds. You don’t use your power of your bully pulpit to destroy the credibility of those who speak out against you. You don’t separate families from one another or demonize those looking to America for a better life. You don’t vilify people based on the God they pray to. And you don’t cuddle up to our adversaries at the expense of our allies.maggie habermanAnd what he was saying to the president, you and I both know who you are, and he was saying to the members of the committee, you should believe me when I say that I understand this man.archived recording (michael cohen)So to those who support the president and his rhetoric, as I once did, I pray the country doesn’t make the same mistakes that I have made or pay the heavy price that my family and I are paying. And I thank you very much for this additional time, Chairman.archived recording (elijah cummings)Thank you very much.maggie habermanAnd when Michael Cohen was done, Elijah Cummings closed with this note of grace toward Michael Cohen.archived recording (elijah cummings)So you wonder whether people believe you. I don’t know. I don’t know whether they believe you. But the fact is that you’ve come, you have your head down. And this has got to be one of the hardest things that you could do.maggie habermanThat was the moment when Michael Cohen started crying. And he really hadn’t done that. He was clearly weeping.archived recording (elijah cummings)I know that you face a lot. I know that you are worried about your family. But this is a part of your destiny.maggie habermanAnd Cummings basically told Cohen, you are doing what you should be doing. You are heading toward the light in this moment.archived recording (elijah cummings)And hopefully, this portion of your destiny will lead to a better — a better Michael Cohen, a better Donald Trump, a better United States of America and a better world.michael barbaroMaggie, thank you very, very much. We appreciate it.maggie habermanMichael, thanks for having me.archived recording (elijah cummings)And we have got to get back to normal. With that, this meeting is adjourned. [MUSIC PLAYING]michael barbaroWe’ll be right back. Here’s what else you need to know today. On Wednesday, Pakistan said it had shot down two Indian fighter jets and captured a pilot from one of them in the latest escalation of hostilities between the two countries. The attack is heightening fears that the decades-old animosities between India and Pakistan could spiral into war. The latest episode began on February 14th, when jihadis operating out of Pakistan killed 40 Indian soldiers, prompting airstrikes from India, and now, a military response from Pakistan.archived recording[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] Bomb blast victims in [INAUDIBLE].michael barbaroIn a speech on Wednesday, the prime minister of Pakistan urged restraint, citing the two countries’ arsenals of nuclear weapons, saying quote, “All big wars have been due to miscalculation. My question to India is that given the weapons we have, can we afford miscalculation?”archived recording[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]michael barbaroAnd in North Carolina on Wednesday, a campaign operative at the center of allegations of election fraud, McCrae Dallas, was arrested and indicted over his handling of absentee ballots in 2016 and 2018. Dallas, who collected absentee ballots for Republican congressional candidate Mark Harris last fall, was charged with obstruction of justice and possession of absentee ballots. As a result of Dallas’ conduct, North Carolina will hold a new election for the 9th congressional district. Harris, who hired Dallas, has withdrawn from that race. [MUSIC PLAYING] That’s it for The Daily. I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.“People that follow Mr. Trump as I did blindly are going to suffer the same consequences that I’m suffering,” he told a packed hearing of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform — a blunt warning to congressional Republicans he said have assumed the same role as Mr. Trump’s protectors that he played for years.During hours of lurid testimony, the president’s once-loyal lawyer and fixer recalled shady business deals and racist comments, and spoke in devastating, uncomfortable detail about his private conversations with the man he had idolized and still refers to only as “Mr. Trump.”Michael D. Cohen, the former lawyer and fixer for President Donald J. Trump, took the stand on Wednesday morning to testify publicly against Mr. Trump before the House Oversight Committee.[Mr. Trump “inflated” the value of his assets in documents given to Deutsche Bank, Mr. Cohen testified.]Such deference did not keep him from painting a damning portrait of the president, including Mr. Trump’s attempts to dodge Vietnam War service and his efforts to strong-arm academic institutions from making his grades public. There were the routine indignities, like when the president put Mr. Cohen on the phone with the first lady to lie to her about a hush money payment to Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film star with whom Mr. Trump is alleged to have had an affair.Mr. Cohen described Mr. Trump as a “con man” and a “cheat,” and estimated there might have been 500 occasions on which he directly threatened someone at the behest of his boss. He was Mr. Trump’s enforcer, a role he once seemed to relish.“If somebody does something Mr. Trump doesn’t like, I do everything in my power to resolve it to Mr. Trump’s benefit,” he told an interviewer in 2011. “If you do something wrong, I’m going to come at you, grab you by the neck, and I’m not going to let you go until I’m finished.”More recently, after Mr. Cohen agreed to tell prosecutors about hush-money payments before the 2016 election, it was the president’s turn to use a Mafioso’s description of his formerly loyal aide. He called him a “rat.”Such was the vernacular the two men honed over years spent navigating gritty but potentially lucrative New York industries — construction, real estate and taxicabs. At the hearing, Mr. Cohen gave the House panel a tutorial of sorts on the folkways of a New York ecosystem in which he and Mr. Trump had thrived.On the day that Mr. Cohen was the star witness in a congressional hearing devised to exhume the president’s past, Mr. Trump was thousands of miles away — preparing for a summit meeting with North Korea’s leader he was hoping would lend gravitas to his embattled presidency, and distract from what was taking place back home.For Mr. Cohen, a man who once walked the hallways of the Trump Organization with a pistol strapped to his ankle and seemed to bask in Mr. Trump’s reflected glory, Wednesday was a moment to absorb the light.“Michael would describe it as being something akin to a cult,” said Donny Deutsch, the advertising executive and friend of Mr. Cohen. “Michael got sucked into it. And his life is in shambles because of it. And he’s the first one to say that.”The relationship between the two men began in the way that many of Mr. Trump’s relationships do: with an act of fealty.In 2006, residents of Trump World Tower — a gleaming glass tower near the United Nations — were pushing to strip Mr. Trump’s name from the building and take control of the building’s management.Mr. Cohen, a former personal injury lawyer who had made millions in the New York City taxicab business, intervened after Mr. Trump’s son Donald Jr. asked for help. Mr. Cohen had already bought several condominiums in Trump buildings, persuaded family and friends to do the same, and had twice read Mr. Trump’s book “The Art of the Deal.” He helped Mr. Trump put down the East Side rebellion, orchestrating a coup that removed the revolting tenants from the condominium board. Mr. Trump took notice.In some ways, it was an unequal relationship between two men of different ages, different upbringings and vastly different financial circumstances. Mr. Cohen, the son of a Holocaust survivor, was just 40 years old when he began working for Mr. Trump — 20 years his elder and the son of a real estate magnate who would inherit millions of dollars of his father’s money.But Mr. Cohen had a comfortable upbringing in Lawrence, on Long Island, a dozen or so miles from the house in Queens where Mr. Trump had been raised. And like his future boss, Mr. Cohen combined raw business savvy with help from a family member — in his case, his father-in-law — to make a mark in the boroughs outside Manhattan.Mr. Cohen was soon a Trump Organization employee, put in charge of disparate elements of Mr. Trump’s business empire. In 2008, he became chief operating officer of Affliction Entertainment, a venture started by Mr. Trump to bring mixed martial arts fights to a pay-per-view audience.“I’m nearly speechless knowing Mr. Trump and Affliction have the trust in me for an event that features the greatest assembly of M.M.A. fighters for one show in M.M.A. history,” Mr. Cohen said in a news release announcing his new position, adding that the coming event was “like having Ali, Frazier, Tyson, Holyfield and other top heavyweights all on the same boxing card.”Working for Mr. Trump, he told lawmakers on Wednesday, was “intoxicating.”“When you were in his presence,” he said, “you felt like you were involved in something greater than yourself — that you were somehow changing the world.”He tried to appeal to his boss by embodying the qualities that Mr. Trump had once admired in his own mentor, Roy Cohn. A Bronx-born lawyer, Mr. Cohn rose to prominence working for Senator Joseph McCarthy’s anti-Communist crusade and then spent years as Mr. Trump’s lawyer. Like Mr. Cohen, he was disbarred for unethical conduct.Wednesday’s congressional hearing is focusing in part on how much Trump knew about hush money payments and a proposed Trump Tower in Moscow.“Roy was brutal, but he was a very loyal guy,” Mr. Trump once told a biographer. “He brutalized for you.”Over time, Mr. Cohen learned how Mr. Trump liked to do business.“He doesn’t give you questions, he doesn’t give you orders,” he said on Wednesday. “He speaks in code, and I understand the code because I’ve been around him for a decade.”In 2011 Mr. Cohen began scouting prospects for another brawl, a possible presidential run by Mr. Trump in 2012. He traveled to Iowa and accompanied Mr. Trump to a speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference, where he acted like a bar bouncer keeping reporters away from his celebrity boss. Mr. Cohen set up a website called ShouldTrumpRun.org.He did not. But almost immediately after the presidential race was over, Mr. Cohen began compiling information for his boss for the next time. He kept a thick binder on his desk at Trump Tower packed with information about filing deadlines in different states for the 2016 election and other campaign minutiae.But he was shunted to the sidelines when the campaign began, prohibited by Mr. Trump’s children and other political operatives from making day-to-day campaign decisions. He pursued other business ventures for Mr. Trump, including the ambitious idea of building the tallest skyscraper in Moscow emblazoned with the Trump name.Trying to gain access to influential figures in Moscow, Mr. Cohen turned to Felix Sater, a Russian immigrant, felon and F.B.I. informant who had helped Mr. Trump with other development deals and had explored various ventures in Russia.This effort became a central focus of the investigation by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, who is examining Russia’s attempts to sabotage the 2016 election and any role Mr. Trump’s advisers played in coordinating with Moscow. And the lies Mr. Cohen told about the negotiations put him in even more legal jeopardy.On Wednesday, he apologized to lawmakers for lying to a different congressional panel in 2017, when he said that the Trump Tower Moscow negotiations ended in January 2016, before the first presidential primaries. In fact, they continued for months longer.“To be clear,” he said, “Mr. Trump knew of and directed the Trump Moscow negotiations throughout the campaign and lied about it. He lied about it because he never expected to win. He also lied about it because he stood to make hundreds of millions of dollars on the Moscow real estate project.”“And so I lied about it, too,” he added.After he won the election, Mr. Trump brought many of his longtime confidants to the White House, but Mr. Cohen was left behind. He was disappointed but remained a loyal backbencher, raising money for Mr. Trump’s re-election fund and publicly attacking celebrities like Snoop Dogg and Johnny Depp for their anti-Trump comments.Republicans at Wednesday’s hearing tried to cast Mr. Cohen as an embittered former aide trying to get payback for being excluded from a White House job. On Twitter, Mr. Trump’s son Eric said that Mr. Cohen was known within the campaign to be seeking a job.Mr. Cohen has insisted over the past two years — and did again on Wednesday — that he never had any interest in moving to Washington, uprooting his family and giving up his job as Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer. He said that Mr. Trump had wanted him for a White House job, and was upset when it did not work out.Regardless of the actual circumstances, Mr. Cohen’s absence from the administration created a distance between Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump that would become a chasm.When F.B.I. agents raided Mr. Cohen’s office and apartment last April, carting off years of business records, emails and other documents, Mr. Cohen relied on his first instinct — he would not flip.He took at least one call from Mr. Trump, who urged him to stay strong. His lawyers strategized with the president’s, and Mr. Trump praised him and insisted his former fixer and lawyer would never cooperate with prosecutors.That would change by July, as his legal problems mounted and his friends urged him not to take the fall for Mr. Trump. He changed his Twitter bio page, removing any mention of being Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, a move people close to him said was a deliberate signal of his independence.Around that time, officials at Mr. Trump’s company began to balk at paying some of Mr. Cohen’s legal fees.He pleaded guilty in August to financial crimes, and in his guilty plea he implicated his former boss in a scheme to pay hush money to two women before the 2016 election.It was an extraordinary turn for a once-devoted soldier — a decision that Mr. Cohen on Wednesday described as a catharsis.“I have lied, but I am not a liar. I have done bad things, but I am not a bad man,” he said before a hushed room.“I have fixed things. But I am no longer your fixer, Mr. Trump.”An earlier version of this article misstated the name of the building where Michael D. Cohen put down a rebellion by tenants. It is Trump World Tower, not Trump World Plaza.OpinionNoah BookbinderAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders fault the president for accepting Kim Jong-un’s claim of ignorance in the Otto Warmbier case.To the Editor:Re “Grief Turns to Rage Over Trump’s Trust of Kim” (front page, March 2):The family of Otto Warmbier is rightly appalled at President Trump’s acceptance of Kim Jong-un’s claimed ignorance of the young man’s case. Mr. Warmbier died upon his return to the United States in 2017 after being held in brutal conditions in a North Korean prison for stealing a poster.Why does President Trump put complete faith in the words of dictators alleged to have sanctioned murder, whether they are in Russia, Saudi Arabia or North Korea? Could it be that these men, unlike the men and women serving in our national intelligence agencies, feel like kindred spirits? Their word is final, regardless of fact. They possess the power, savor the privileges and exercise the rights of unchallenged autocrats, free from any democratic constraints. They demand, and get, total deference and respect based on fear and intimidation. This clearly seems to be the model that has guided President Trump as a businessman and now as a political leader. It is clearly time for members of his party to come forward to defend democracy itself from a leader who does not value it.Bill NicholsSan FranciscoTo the Editor:Fred and Cindy Warmbier are finding out just how bad it feels to be pawns of Donald Trump. They were proudly on display at the 2018 State of the Union address. Now they have been thrown under the bus at the summit in Hanoi with Kim Jong-un. The Warmbiers’ unimaginable grief over the gruesome loss of their son was compounded by the president. This is only the latest in the litany of despicable actions taken by Mr. Trump. It’s time to wake up, America: Your country and its values are being hijacked.Maris Thatcher MeyersonBerkeley, Calif.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe fact that the president may have the authority to throw away billions on a foolish campaign promise is itself scandalous.By Peter H. SchuckMr. Schuck is an emeritus professor of law at Yale and scholar-in-residence at N.Y.U. President Trump has declared a national emergency — purely in order to fund his wall. The courts may — or may not — reject his gambit. But the fact that he may actually possess the legal authority to require agencies to waste billions of dollars simply to fulfill a foolish campaign promise he thinks won him the election is itself scandalous. The theatrics surrounding his petulant threat to do so obscure a vital question for our democracy going far beyond this (non)crisis, a question to which Congress should immediately turn: Who decides what constitutes a national emergency?In hundreds of laws, Congress has given the president the power to decide. (The Brennan Center for Justice has compiled an exhaustive list.) But by failing to define crucial terms, legal standards and accountability rules, Congress has handed presidents an all-too-handy tool of tyranny commonly used by autocrats to amass more power, crush dissent and eviscerate democratic institutions. In Mr. Trump’s case, it has handed an unguided missile to an ignorant, impetuous man-child.Congress should have known better. After all, it enacted the National Emergencies Act of 1976, which purported to regulate such declarations, only two years after President Richard Nixon’s abuses of power forced his resignation. The act actually made matters worse in a key respect: It defined a national emergency as “a general declaration of emergency made by the president.” This circular definition, of course, is no constraint at all. Or as Humpty Dumpty says to Alice, “it means just what I choose it to mean — neither more nor less.”In the nature of national emergencies, some definitional leeways are unavoidable. But Congress could readily specify certain conditions that must exist before the president can make such a declaration and thus arrogate to himself extraordinary powers — curtailing liberties, seizing property, spending funds appropriated for other purposes and suspending protective laws — that Congress would not otherwise be likely to grant him in advance, or perhaps ever. (Indeed, Congress has the power to override Mr. Trump's declaration and it should in this case — though it probably won’t.)One can easily specify some of the factors in a national emergency condition that any responsible Congress would insist on before allowing such a declaration to take effect: magnitude (the feared incremental harms of the condition are very large, not just marginal); geographic scope (those harms should be nationwide even if the triggering condition is more localized); extraordinary (the condition should be rare, if not unprecedented); imminence (the anticipated harms should be so close in time that Congress cannot deliberate); and likely effectiveness (the president’s action should promise to substantially solve the problem).Reasonable people may disagree, of course, about precisely how Congress should define and weigh these factors, how they should be applied to the facts on the ground and whether other factors should be considered. President Trump’s wall cannot survive such a rigorous analysis: Even assuming that recent illegal border crossings harm the nation, they are not greater (indeed, they are probably fewer) than in recent decades; Congress has been deliberating (in its fashion) for decades about immigration reform, including border walls; and many Americans believe that the wall would be ineffective and a bad idea. Congress simply disagrees with the president about which border security measures would do the job — an instance of decidedly normal politics.But my larger claim — that Congress’s delegation to presidents of vast, essentially unconstrained power to declare national emergencies has been an irresponsible surrender of its constitutional responsibilities — does not depend on whether my assessment of this particular case is correct. Not since the New Deal has the Supreme Court struck down a statute for this kind of standardless delegation of legislative authority to administrative agencies, but the Roberts court — activist, conservative and suspicious of broad delegations of power to agencies — recently reached out to review a case, Gundy v. United States, that gives it an opportunity to revive the long-dormant and doubtful non-delegation doctrine.Another way to make the National Emergencies Act more compatible with the rule of law is through a procedure that would broaden participation in all future decisions to declare national emergencies. Under one such reform, the president would have to consult with the leaders of both parties in Congress before issuing a declaration. Even if Congress could not override such a declaration, members would have to take a public position on the facts and reasons invoked as justification by the president. If time were of the essence (not so in this case; Congress has legislated about a wall for more than a decade), their responses would have to be expedited. With such a procedure in place, judicial review of the declaration could be narrow, if at all.If national emergency declarations are as important as presidents (with Congress’s acquiescence) claim them to be, then they are important enough to be subjected to such standards and procedures. In the long run, this is more crucial to the vitality of our democracy than whether President Trump ultimately gets his wall.This article has been updated to reflect news developments. Peter H. Schuck, an emeritus professor of law at Yale and scholar-in-residence at N.Y.U., is author most recently of "One Nation Undecided: Clear Thinking About Five Issues That Divide Us"The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe president can instruct executive branch agencies to shield key evidence if he chooses. But it is unlikely that he alone can shake off the dragnet stretched across Trump world by Democrats.By Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — President Trump dismissed on Tuesday an expansive document request by House Democrats scrutinizing whether he obstructed justice or abused power as nothing more than a political sideshow — and he suggested the White House might not cooperate.Citing 81 document request letters dispatched Monday to Trump associates by the House Judiciary Committee, the president called Democrats’ efforts “a disgrace to our country” and seemingly implied — incorrectly — that President Barack Obama refused to comply with Congress’s demands under similar circumstances.“Essentially what they are saying is the campaign begins,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Tuesday. “Instead of doing infrastructure, instead of doing health care, instead of doing so many things they should be doing, they want to play games.”Mr. Trump can instruct executive branch agencies to shield key evidence if he chooses. But it is unlikely that he alone can shake off the dragnet stretched across Trump world by Democrats, most systematically by the House Judiciary Committee this week. Detailed requests were made by the panel’s chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, not just to the White House and key government agencies, but to private companies and individuals tied to Mr. Trump’s businesses, campaign and administration. More will follow.[Read the 81 letters here.]Many of the people and entities have already told the Judiciary Committee that they will cooperate, meaning that the panel could soon begin reaping reams of evidence already in the hands of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and federal prosecutors in New York. Others will most likely do so under subpoena in time. A closer look at Mr. Nadler’s initial 81 targets — a mix of household names and bit players — reveals a web of lines of inquiry and overlapping interests. Here are some of the most noteworthy patterns.The F.B.I., the Justice Department, the White House.In a sign that House investigators are not waiting for Mr. Mueller or federal prosecutors in New York to finish their work, Mr. Nadler asked the F.B.I. and the Justice Department on Monday to turn over vast tranches of information that they have already collected in the case. The terms were broad, asking for “all documents relating to” contacts between the Trump campaign and transition team and Russia, materials related to a June 2016 meeting with a Kremlin-connected lawyer promising dirt on Hillary Clinton, attempts by Mr. Trump to fire or otherwise retaliate against federal investigators, and potential emoluments by foreign or domestic governments to Trump entities, among nearly 30 other discrete topics. The committee is not explicitly investigating Russia’s election interference or possible cooperation with the Trump campaign — that will be left to the House Intelligence Committee. But Mr. Nadler appears to want that information to understand what Mr. Trump might have been trying to obstruct and why he was using his office to assail the courts and the Justice Department. A lengthy set of requests sent to the White House uses similar boilerplate language and asks for many of the same documents.The Trump Organization, the Trump Foundation, Donald Trump Jr., Eric Trump, Jared Kushner, Rhona Graff, Corey Lewandowski.Mr. Trump famously surrounds himself with a small group of family members and trusted associates who often provide his closest counsel. Mr. Nadler wants to talk to many of them, and, naturally, the reasons are long and varied.They include the president’s two adult sons, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump, who were at Mr. Trump’s side when he made key business decisions during his campaign for office and during the transition into the White House. He also wants information from Jared Kushner, who is married to Mr. Trump’s eldest daughter, Ivanka Trump, and serves as a key White House adviser.There are others, too, though. Rhona Graff, Mr. Trump’s longtime executive assistant, was asked for key material related to dealings with foreign entities by the Trump Organization and the campaign, including the Trump Tower meeting. So was Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s former campaign manager and an informal adviser to his presidency.And Mr. Nadler also took detailed requests directly to the Trump Organization and the now-dissolved Trump Foundation.Michael D. Cohen, David J. Pecker, American Media Inc., Donald Trump Jr., Donald J. Trump Revocable Trust, Allen Weisselberg, Ronald C. Lieberman, Matthew Calamari, Jared Kushner.Mr. Nadler appears to be fishing widely for new information about hush money payments made during the 2016 campaign to bury the story of a pornographic film actress, Stormy Daniels, who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump. Mr. Nadler has sent exhaustive demands to at least four figures already known to be central to the scheme, which federal prosecutors have said violated campaign finance laws.Chief among them, of course, is Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer and longtime fixer, who arranged the payments and testified publicly last week before another House committee that Mr. Trump was a full participant in the effort. From Mr. Cohen, the committee wants all documents “relating to any payment, or discussions regarding any actual or potential payment” for the benefit of Mr. Trump or the campaign.The committee is seeking similar evidence from American Media Inc., the publisher of The National Enquirer, and its chairman, David J. Pecker, who worked with Mr. Cohen to buy Ms. Daniels’s silence in the waning weeks of the 2016 campaign. Allen Weisselberg, the chief financial officer of the Trump Organization who Mr. Cohen testified helped craft the illegal hush money scheme, was asked the same question, among a range of others about potential business dealings with Russia or other foreign powers.Donald F. McGahn II, Annie Donaldson, Hope Hicks, Sean Spicer, Jeff Sessions, Corey Lewandowski, Jay Sekulow, Thomas P. Bossert, Michael D. Cohen, Rick Gates, Paul Manafort, Michael T. Flynn, Stephen K. Bannon, Reince Priebus.Potential obstruction of justice by Mr. Trump is of paramount importance to the Judiciary Committee, which twice in the past half-century has included obstruction in articles of impeachment against a president.Dozens of witnesses were asked about Mr. Trump’s reported attempts to attack or impede the investigation, but a half-dozen or so individuals are clearly people of interest. Chief among them is Donald F. McGahn II, Mr. Trump’s former White House counsel, who was at the president’s side during many of the episodes central to the Democratic argument that Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.The committee asked Mr. McGahn for documents related to the firing of James B. Comey as F.B.I. director; discussions about the recusal of Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, from overseeing the Russia inquiry; and any attempts to fire Mr. Sessions, Mr. Mueller and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general overseeing the special counsel inquiry. Mr. Nadler also asked Mr. McGahn for documents related to possible pardon offers for Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman; Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser; and Mr. Cohen. He also asked for paperwork about public statements made about various interactions between Trump associates and Russia.Mr. Nadler sent similar questions to Annie Donaldson, Mr. McGahn’s deputy, who took exhaustive notes detailing Mr. Trump’s behavior in the West Wing in real time; Hope Hicks, a former White House communications director; Sean Spicer, the first Trump White House press secretary; Mr. Sessions; and Mr. Lewandowski.There were other topics, too. Mr. Nadler asked Jay Sekulow, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, for any drafts of a statement delivered by Mr. Cohen last year to the House and Senate Intelligence Committees about a Trump Tower project in Moscow. Mr. Cohen testified last week that Mr. Sekulow had been involved in preparing his testimony, which proved to be false and led Mr. Cohen to plead guilty to lying to Congress.Andrew Intrater, Erik Prince, Michael T. Flynn, Irakly Kaveladze, Thomas J. Barrack Jr., Tony Fabrizio, Viktor Vekselberg, Paul Erickson, George Nader, the Trump Inaugural Committee, the N.R.A., Matthew Calamari, Alan Garten, Ronald C. Lieberman.Mr. Nadler said publicly on Monday that his committee was keenly interested in the possibility of pay-to-play style corruption and possible violations of the Constitution’s emoluments clause, which bans public officials from receiving gifts from foreign governments. Mr. Trump’s businesses and his inaugural committee received document requests, and both appear to be at the center of this inquiry.The committee sent other requests to Viktor Vekselberg, a Russian oligarch who attended the inaugural festivities, and Andrew Intrater, whose firm hired Mr. Cohen on a $1 million consulting contract to help navigate Mr. Trump’s Washington. Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the chairman of the inaugural committee and another informal adviser to the president, was asked about contacts and possible financial support offered by foreign governments, including Middle East powers. Erik Prince, a private security contractor who arranged a 2016 meeting between Donald Trump Jr. and an emissary for two wealthy Arab princes, received a letter, as did the emissary, George Nader.Mr. Nadler queried Trump Organization executives — including Mr. Weisselberg, Matthew Calamari, Alan Garten and Ronald C. Lieberman — for documents related to any foreign or domestic government “discussing, offering, or providing, or being solicited to discuss, offer, or provide, any present or emolument of any kind” to Mr. Trump, his businesses, Mr. Kushner, his businesses and the inaugural committee.The committee requested similar information from the General Services Administration, which leases the Old Post Office building in downtown Washington to the Trump International Hotel.WikiLeaks, Julian Assange, Roger J. Stone Jr., Jerome Corsi, Randy Credico, Sam Nunberg, Ted Malloch.WikiLeaks’ release of Democratic emails during the 2016 campaign does not appear to be of immediate concern to Mr. Nadler. Nor is it clear he will get voluntary cooperation.But Mr. Nadler has taken direct aim at the organization and its associates, anyway. He has requested from WikiLeaks itself and from its founder, Julian Assange, records of any communications with Mr. Trump’s campaign or associates and whether Mr. Assange has knowledge of communications between Trump associates and Russia.Mr. Nadler asked Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime Trump adviser who prosecutors said was dispatched by the campaign to get information from WikiLeaks, about his contacts with both. Cambridge Analytica, the SCL Group, Alexander Nix, Brittany Kaiser, Julian D. Wheatland.Cambridge Analytica, the now-defunct political data firm that worked for the Trump campaign during the 2016 presidential election, is also on the Judiciary Committee’s list. Along with Cambridge itself, the committee wants documents and emails from its parent company, the SCL Group, along with four of the firm’s former employees: Alexander Nix, its former chief executive; Brittany Kaiser, a former employee who has sought to cast herself as a whistle-blower since the firm imploded; and Julian D. Wheatland, the chairman of the SCL Group.The focus on Cambridge Analytica is not entirely clear. The political data firm last year became embroiled in a data-harvesting scandal after The New York Times and The Observer of London exposed how it harvested personal information from the Facebook profiles of up to 87 million people.The firm used the data to help build its so-called psychographic modeling techniques, which underpinned its work for the Trump campaign. Mr. Nix once called the practice “our secret sauce,” though some have questioned its effectiveness.Annie Karni and Matthew Rosenberg contributed reporting.Nicholas Fandos is a reporter in the Washington bureau covering Congress.  @npfandos Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Eileen SullivanWASHINGTON — President Trump on Friday seized on a portion of a federal judge’s remarks during the sentencing of his former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, in a financial crimes case to again criticize the Russia investigation and falsely declare a finding of “no collusion.”Both the Judge and the lawyer in the Paul Manafort case stated loudly and for the world to hear that there was NO COLLUSION with Russia. But the Witch Hunt Hoax continues as you now add these statements to House & Senate Intelligence & Senator Burr. So bad for our Country!Speaking to reporters before he left for Alabama to inspect tornado damage, Mr. Trump said that the sentencing judge, T.S. Ellis III of the United States District Court in Alexandria, Va., had said “there was no collusion with Russia.” Mr. Trump added that he was “very honored” Judge Ellis made that statement.Mr. Trump, however, twisted Judge Ellis’s words.What Judge Ellis actually said Thursday was that Mr. Manafort was “not before this court for anything having to do with collusion with the Russian government to influence this election.”There was “no collusion” because Mr. Manafort was not charged with or convicted of any crimes of collusion, a word that has no legal definition but has become a term of art for the special counsel’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election.Mr. Manafort on Thursday received a sentence of nearly four years  for financial crimes for which sentencing guidelines recommend a prison term of 19 to 24 years. He was convicted in August of five counts of tax fraud, two counts of bank fraud and one count of failure to disclose a foreign bank account.Mr. Manafort’s attorneys used the same false talking point as the president on Thursday, saying in a brief statement after the hearing, “There is absolutely no evidence that Paul Manafort was involved in any collusion with any government official or Russia.”In his tweet, Mr. Trump also falsely stated that Judge Ellis’s ruling is consistent with statements from the House and Senate Intelligence Committees that have been conducting separate investigations into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election.Last year, Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee issued a 250-page report detailing their findings that there was no evidence that the Trump campaign helped Russia interfere in the election. With the Democrats in control of the House, the Intelligence Committee is broadening the investigation to include Russian interference as well as Mr. Trump’s finances.Mr. Trump singled out Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina, the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, who said in February that the panel had not seen any evidence “that would suggest there was collusion by the Trump campaign and Russia.” The committee’s investigation is ongoing.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWho’s champion of the race to the bottom?By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistThe votes are in, and the winner of the Worst Trump Cabinet Member competition is …Wilbur Ross!First time a secretary of commerce has ever won the title. Don’t let me hear you complaining that this administration hasn’t accomplished anything.The Ross victory is a little suspect, since it came right after he gave an interview in which he expressed befuddlement about why furloughed government workers were going to food banks and homeless shelters when they could — you know, just go see their banker and take out a loan.Do you think he was making a play for first place? Nah, that was just Wilbur being Wilbur, the guy who happily marveled that when Donald Trump visited Saudi Arabia “there was not a single hint of a protester anywhere.” When reminded that the Saudi government has a way of making protesters disappear, Ross admitted “in theory that could be true” but quickly added, “there was certainly no sign of it.”Until then Ross’s biggest claim to cabinet fame was perhaps his habit of falling asleep at meetings. Hey, the man is 81. Give him a break.Coming in a close second was Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen, followed by that perennial favorite, Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos.Nielsen, who one reader called “the queen of mendacity,” got votes for her work separating thousands of families at the Mexican border. The Trump immigration policies were on so many people’s minds, they put Stephen Miller in fourth place even though he’s not actually in the cabinet.Miller, a 33-year-old senior adviser to the president, is a longtime enemy of bipartisan immigration reform who’s a chief architect of Trump’s wall-mania. So it’s sort of pleasant to mention, just for the heck of it, that lately Miller’s seemed to be trying to fight premature balding by spraying some kind of black stuff on the top of his head.Our voting results are not entirely scientific, given readers’ demand to be able to vote for two, three or 12 different contenders. (“Why not give it to them all? My daughter played softball and everybody got a trophy.”)DeVos, a former Worst Cabinet Member winner, has faded a bit as her ineffectiveness appeared to mitigate some of her bad intentions. Nevertheless, it’s clear our readers have been keeping an eagle eye on what she’s been up to, however fumbling the effort. One voter cited “her disinterest in addressing the national student debt crisis; her support of private institutions’ shady loan practices; her bungling of college campus sex policy; her complete lack of knowledge and interest in classroom achievement.” And that was just the first part of the letter.Other high-rankers in the Worst contest were Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin. Some readers mentioned Pompeo’s cheerful visit to Saudi Arabia that was highlighted by “his boys-will-be-boys willingness to overlook the savage murder of Saudi Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi.”Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson got quite a few votes despite a certain lack of, um, public presence. (“What happened to Ben Carson? No, seriously. What happened to him? Did he fall asleep in a chair somewhere? Did he ever get out of that elevator?”)Ditto Secretary of Energy Rick Perry, whose most notable recent achievement was being the cabinet member who stayed away from the State of the Union address so he could run the country if everybody else got assassinated.We do not want to pursue this thought for any number of reasons.There were virtually no votes for either the head of the Department of Interior or the Environmental Protection Agency. Ryan Zinke and Scott Pruitt were big Worst contenders in the past, but they’re gone now, thrown into the darkness for various embarrassments along the line of super-expensive trips on the public dime and, in Pruitt’s case, telling an aide to inquire about purchasing an old mattress from a Trump hotel.Now Trump has announced that he’s nominating David Bernhardt to be his new secretary of the Interior. Bernhardt is a former oil lobbyist whose biggest interest in public lands appears to involve drilling on them. I’ll bet we hear a lot more of him next time around.The list goes on and on. There’s hardly a cabinet member who doesn’t seem to be driving readers crazy. Some of them are losing sleep over the fact that Senator Mitch McConnell’s wife, Elaine Chao, is running the Department of Transportation while her family runs an international shipping company. (“I’m not convinced she would win a prize — there are so many corrupt contenders. But she might get a (dis)honorable mention.”) Chao is also a big fan of privatizing things — including the Federal Aviation Administration.Truly, we should give a shout-out to Donald Trump for creating such a memorable bunch of top officials. “I have followed politics a very long time … and this is the first time I can actually name more than one or two cabinet people from memory, because they are so freaking dangerously bad,” moaned one reader.Think about it. How many members of the Obama cabinet can you recall? Even when George W. Bush was hanging out with Dick Cheney, did you know who was running the Department of Commerce?At least we’re all paying attention.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byInfrastructure won’t happen until the Democrats regain control.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistDonald Trump isn’t the first president, or even the first Republican president, who has sought to define his legacy in part with a big construction project. Abraham Lincoln signed legislation providing the land grants and financing that created the transcontinental railroad. Theodore Roosevelt built the Panama Canal. Dwight Eisenhower built the interstate highway system.But Trump’s wall is different, and not just because it probably won’t actually get built. Previous big construction projects were about bringing people together and making them more productive. The wall is about division — not just a barrier against outsiders, but an attempt to drive a wedge between Americans, too. It’s about fear, not the future.Why isn’t Trump building anything? Surely he’s exactly the kind of politician likely to suffer from an edifice complex, a desire to see his name on big projects. Furthermore, during the 2016 campaign he didn’t just promise a wall, he also promised a major rebuilding of America’s infrastructure.But month after month of inaction followed his inauguration. A year ago he again promised “the biggest and boldest infrastructure investment in American history.” Again, nothing happened.[Paul Krugman did explanatory journalism before it was cool, moving from a career as a world-class economist to writing hard-hitting opinion columns. For an even deeper look at what’s on his mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]Last month there was reportedly a White House meeting to game out a new infrastructure plan. This time they mean it. Really. Would this administration ever lie to you?The interesting question is why Trump seems unwilling or unable to do anything about America’s crumbling roads, bridges, water supplies and so on. After all, polls show that a large majority of the public wants to see more infrastructure spending. Public investment is an issue on which Trump could get substantial Democratic support; it would lift the economy, and also help repair the public’s perception that the administration is chaotic and incompetent.Yet everything points to two more years of occasional bombast about infrastructure, with no follow-up. Why the paralysis?Some news analyses suggest that it’s about money, that big infrastructure spending would happen if only Republicans and Democrats could agree on how to pay for it. But this is being credulous. Remember, in 2017 the G.O.P. enacted a $2 trillion tax cut with absolutely no pay-fors; the tax cut is completely failing to deliver the promised boost to private investment, but there is no sign of buyer’s remorse.So Republicans don’t really care about using debt to pay for things they want. And Democrats, whose top policy wonks have been telling them that deficit fears are excessive, would surely support a program of debt-financed infrastructure spending.In short, money isn’t why we aren’t building infrastructure. The real obstacle is that Trump, his officials, his party or all of the above don’t actually want the kind of public investment America needs. Build they won’t.In the case of Trump administration officials, what’s striking about the various infrastructure “plans” they’ve offered — they’re more like vague sketches — is that they involve very little direct public investment. Instead, they’re schemes that would purportedly use public funds as a sweetener to induce large amounts of private investment. Why not just build stuff? Partly, perhaps, to hold down the headline cost. But such schemes would also amount to a backdoor way to privatize public assets, while possibly generating little new investment.And while a real infrastructure plan would gain a lot of support from Democrats, an exercise in crony capitalism pretending to be about infrastructure wouldn’t.Meanwhile, Republicans in Congress are aggressively uninterested in any kind of public investment program. During Trump’s first two years in office, they first bullied him into submitting a plan that actually provided hardly any money for new investment, then invented excuses for not dealing even with that emasculated proposal.The truth is that modern conservatives hate the idea of any kind of new public spending, even if it would make Americans better off — or perhaps it would be more accurate to say especially if it would make Americans better off, because a successful spending program might help legitimize a positive role for government in general. And while Trump may not fully share his party’s small-government ideology, all his limited energy is going into finding ways to punish people, not help them.So who will rebuild America? Trump and his party have had their chance, and clearly refuse to act, so it will have to be the Democrats. Their proposed Green New Deal is deliberately short on specifics, but its clear thrust is toward a revival of the American tradition of public investment in the public interest.And my guess, which is also my hope, is that if Democrats get the opportunity — if, in 2021, they regain control of both the White House and the Senate — they won’t let funding concerns block an infrastructure push. Major health reform will need new revenue sources, but given low interest rates, debt-financed public investment would be sound policy. Build we must, build we should, and hopefully build we will.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders suggest envy or mental imbalance.To the Editor:In “McCain Death Hasn’t Silenced a Trump Feud” (front page, March 21), you report that Senator Mitt Romney wrote on Twitter that he couldn’t “understand why the President would, once again, disparage a man as exemplary as my friend John McCain: heroic, courageous, patriotic, honorable, self-effacing, self-sacrificing, empathetic, and driven by duty to family, country, and God.”That’s easy. John McCain was everything Donald Trump is not.John WiseGuerneville, Calif.To the Editor:President Trump’s continued assaults on Senator John McCain seven months after his death aptly remind The Times of his attacks on a Gold Star father, Khizr Khan. But the most obvious comparison is to Mr. Trump’s continued attacks on Hillary Clinton, long after he had beaten her and become president. He can’t let go of Hillary Clinton. He can’t let go of John McCain. These add more weight to the concerns that George Conway, the husband of Kellyanne Conway, has expressed about the president’s mental and emotional health.And it’s time for the Senate to step in and uphold the dignity of Mr. McCain by taking up a proposal by the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer, to rename the Russell Senate Office Building  (named for a mostly forgotten segregationist and white supremacist) for Mr. McCain.James AdlerCambridge, Mass.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Mark Landler and David M. HalbfingerWASHINGTON — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu compared President Trump to Cyrus the Great, Lord Balfour and Harry S. Truman — historic giants who helped secure the future of the Israeli people. Mr. Trump called Mr. Netanyahu a “very special man.”If the expressions of praise seemed unequal, they accurately conveyed the political dynamic between Mr. Trump and Mr. Netanyahu during the Israeli leader’s visit to the White House on Monday.Mr. Netanyahu was thanking Mr. Trump for signing a proclamation recognizing Israel’s authority over the long-disputed Golan Heights — a valuable political gift to the prime minister two weeks before he faces voters in a hard-fought election back home.[Read why the Golan Heights is no longer an Arab rallying cry.]Mr. Trump, fresh off news that an investigation of his possible ties to Russia did not find evidence of a conspiracy, was happy to show support to an ally who still faces indictment in Israel on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust.“Mr. President,” the prime minister said, “over the years, Israel has been blessed to have many friends who sat in the Oval Office, but Israel has never had a better friend than you.”Certainly, Mr. Netanyahu has never had a friendlier president during his 13 years in office. In addition to his decision on the Golan Heights, Mr. Trump pulled the United States out of the Iran nuclear deal, which Mr. Netanyahu had long reviled, and moved the American Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, which the prime minister had long advocated.“Today I am taking historic action to promote Israel’s ability to defend itself,” Mr. Trump said as he signed the proclamation and handed the pen to Mr. Netanyahu.Mr. Trump’s decision, first announced last week, reverses decades of American policy and is at odds with United Nations resolutions rejecting the seizure of land by force. But the president said it was necessary because otherwise, Iran and its proxies in southern Syria would use the Golan Heights as a launching ground for attacks on Israel.Mr. Trump cited a rocket attack from Gaza, which struck a house near Tel Aviv early Monday morning, injuring seven, as an example of “the significant security challenges that Israel faces every single day.”The attack prompted Mr. Netanyahu to announce he was cutting short his trip to return home after his meeting to oversee Israel’s military response. He had been scheduled to have dinner with Mr. Trump on Tuesday and to address a pro-Israeli lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, or Aipac. Mr. Netanyahu stayed in Washington until Monday evening, as Israeli forces began striking Hamas targets in Gaza.“Israel is responding forcefully to this wanton aggression,” he said. “We will do whatever we must do to defend our people and defend our state.”Mr. Netanyahu spoke of the vital role that the Golan Heights had played in Israel’s defense. He recalled that his brother was among the soldiers who scaled its rocky slopes during the Arab-Israeli war of 1967. Later on, Mr. Netanyahu himself, as a young officer, led a covert unit from Syria into the Golan Heights in the midst of a snowstorm.“We hold the high ground, and we shall never give it up,” he said.Though Israel effectively annexed the Golan Heights in 1981, Mr. Netanyahu said it had to wait half a century for Mr. Trump “to translate our military victory into a diplomatic victory.”Mr. Trump’s decision continued to ripple throughout the region. Al-Marsad, which defends the rights of native Syrians in the Golan Heights, said the decision to recognize Israeli sovereignty could provoke violence in a territory that has been remarkably tranquil.“The decision sets a dangerous standard that glorifies systematic human rights abuses, legitimizes illegal aggression and occupation, and endangers peace in the Middle East,” the group said in a statement.Saudi Arabia also warned, in a statement released by its official press agency on Tuesday, that Mr. Trump’s decision would have “significant negative effects” on security and the peace process in the Middle East.The statement described the Golan Heights as an “occupied Syrian Arab land in accordance with the relevant international resolutions.”“Attempts to impose fait accompli do not change the facts,” it said.Mr. Netanyahu’s truncated visit came at a critical moment in Israeli politics, when his legal woes are multiplying and he faces a fierce challenge from Benny Gantz, a retired military chief. Analysts said the show of support could tilt the balance in his favor.“Trump’s embrace and Hamas rockets may well make the difference in helping Netanyahu form the next Israeli government,” said Aaron David Miller, a former peace negotiator now at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.The prime minister was hit by two new accusations shortly before he left for Washington: that he improperly authorized the sale of German-made submarines to Egypt, and that he engaged in self-dealing, through an undisclosed stake in a company that supplied the German builder of both the Egyptian subs and several new Israeli warships.Mr. Trump, on the other hand, was still exulting in the letter to Congress sent by Attorney General William P. Barr, in which Mr. Barr reported that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, had not found collusion between Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign and Russia.The president did not mention the Russia investigation during the signing ceremony, though in a later session with Mr. Netanyahu in the Oval Office, he told reporters that his opponents were “treasonous.”Mr. Netanyahu made light of the legal issues facing both of them. He told Mr. Trump that he had brought him a case of wine from the Golan Heights. Noting that the president was not a wine drinker, he asked if he could give the bottles to the White House staff.After Mr. Trump agreed, Mr. Netanyahu joked, “I hope they don’t open an investigation on it.”For his part, Mr. Trump listed all the steps he had taken to benefit Israel, including moving the embassy. After thanking the American ambassador to Israel, David M. Friedman, Mr. Trump asked him whether he was enjoying the relocated embassy.“Yes,” said Mr. Friedman, who was standing behind the leaders.“And you love Israel?” Mr. Trump asked.Nodding, Mr. Friedman added, “And America.”“And America,” Mr. Trump repeated with a grin. “I was waiting for him to say that.”Even in its abbreviated form, Mr. Netanyahu’s meeting with Mr. Trump overshadowed a major speech to Aipac by Mr. Gantz at the same time as the Oval Office session.Mr. Gantz told his audience that the prime minister had “done well” by deciding to return home, and said he intended to return as well, “and if needed to fight in defense of our people.”But in what amounted to a campaign speech, Mr. Gantz, a former chief of the Israeli Army’s general staff, also took shots at Mr. Netanyahu, while portraying himself as a soldier who would be tough on defense while running a cleaner and more inclusive government.“There will be no racists leading our state institutions and there will be no corruption,” Mr. Gantz declared in a not-so-subtle reference to Mr. Netanyahu’s embrace of a far-right party, Otzma Yehudit, and to his indictment on corruption charges.At a time when Israel policy in the United States has become divisive, with many progressives and young Jews taking a highly critical view of the Netanyahu government, Mr. Gantz also sought to cast himself as a leader who would build bridges between Jews in the two countries.“As an abba, as a father, I’m doing it for my kids,” he said. “But I’m doing it for your kids as well.”Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting from Washington, Isabel Kershner from Jerusalem, and Mike Ives from Hong Kong.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byletterThe journalist Harold Evans notes an interesting coincidence in Washington on Thursday.To the Editor:Re “Challenge to President and His View of News” (news article, Feb. 2):At the White House, President Trump submits to questioning by The New York Times about his threats to the news media. His answers are for the most part a litany of vague personal grievances. The same day, across town, in the United States District Court in Washington, Judge Amy Berman Jackson speaks to an altogether different order of values.Her award of $302.5 million against President Bashar al-Assad for Syria’s targeted assassination of the war reporter Marie Colvin (news article, Feb. 1) is nothing less than a resounding exposition of the necessity of a free press and the courage of individual journalists who embody it.The next time that President Trump is asked to account for his reckless incitements against “enemies of the people,” he should be pressed to have the United States at last join the 174 countries that have ratified Article 79 of the Geneva Conventions for the protection of journalists and the additional Protocol 1. And that’s only a start in following Judge Jackson’s lead. Nine out of every 10 of the killers of journalists have never been investigated.Harold EvansQuogue, N.Y.The writer is a former editor of The Sunday Times (London) and The Times of London.Advertisement
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas Fandos and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — Michael D. Cohen on Wednesday provided new documents to the House Intelligence Committee that he said illustrated changes made at the request of President Trump’s lawyers to a knowingly false written statement that he delivered to Congress in 2017, according to three people familiar with the matter.Mr. Cohen, in what was expected to be his last visit to Capitol Hill, brought multiple drafts of his 2017 statement along with emails with Mr. Trump’s lawyers about its drafting, hoping to back up claims that he made last week at an open hearing before the House Oversight and Reform Committee. In that session, Mr. Cohen testified that there were “changes made, additions” to the original written statement, including about the length of negotiations over a proposed Trump Tower project in Moscow during the 2016 presidential campaign.It was not immediately clear how many changes were made by Mr. Trump’s lawyers, including Jay Sekulow, or how drastic those changes were. Two of the people familiar with the documents and Mr. Cohen’s testimony, who were not authorized to speak publicly about the closed-door session, said that at least some of the changes appeared to play down the knowledge of the president’s eldest daughter, Ivanka Trump, about the project.At the least, the exchange between Mr. Cohen and the president’s lawyers suggests that the lawyers had detailed knowledge of what he was going to tell Congress. Mr. Cohen said last week that though Mr. Trump did not explicitly direct him to lie, he “made clear to me” through his actions that “he wanted me to lie.”Other people familiar with the discussions that took place at the time of Mr. Cohen’s original testimony said that it was Mr. Cohen himself who wrote that the Moscow project ended before the Iowa caucuses in January 2016, when Mr. Trump was a candidate.That statement turned out to be false, and in November 2018, Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to lying to Congress. In fact, he said, discussions about the project had gone on much longer and Mr. Trump had greater involvement than he had led the congressional committees to believe.The documents were delivered by Mr. Cohen as he appeared for yet another session with congressional lawmakers investigating Mr. Trump, his campaign and his businesses — his last before he reports for his prison sentence this spring. Lawmakers on the Intelligence Committee also pressed Mr. Cohen on Wednesday and in an earlier session last week for more details on a range of claims he made publicly, including whether he sought out or was offered a potential pardon.CNN first reported that Mr. Cohen had produced the documents on Wednesday. He had alluded to them before the Oversight and Reform Committee, specifically mentioning Mr. Sekulow, one of Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers, as someone who proposed alterations to his 2017 statement.“There were changes made, additions — Jay Sekulow, for one,” Mr. Cohen said in that hearing. “There were several changes that were made including how we were going to handle that message, which was — the message of course being the length of time that the Trump Tower Moscow project stayed and remained alive.”Mr. Sekulow disputed Mr. Cohen’s testimony last week. In a statement, he said that the testimony “that attorneys for the president edited or changed his statement to Congress to alter the duration of the Trump Tower Moscow negotiations is completely false.” On Wednesday, he referred to his previous statement when asked about Mr. Cohen’s documents.The people familiar with the discussions that took place at the time of Mr. Cohen’s original testimony said that Mr. Cohen’s lawyers had signed off on all of the changes proposed by Mr. Trump’s legal team. They also said that Mr. Trump’s lawyers had at the time no indication that the dates Mr. Cohen cited in the statement were inaccurate.Mr. Cohen’s team shared his proposed statement with Mr. Trump’s lawyers because at the time they had a formal agreement to work together to defend the president and Mr. Cohen.Speaking with reporters after Wednesday’s session, Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and the Intelligence Committee’s chairman, acknowledged only that Mr. Cohen had provided the committee “additional documents,” noting that it had found him to be fully cooperative.“There may be additional documents that he still has to offer and his cooperation with our committee continues,” Mr. Schiff said. The chairman had previously indicated that he planned to make a transcript of Mr. Cohen’s testimony public at some unspecified future date.Republicans on the committee did not speak with reporters after the interview concluded. And in a brief statement, Mr. Cohen said he would be willing to provide additional information to the committee if it requested it.The new details punctuated — somewhat quietly — an extraordinary and explosive week of congressional testimony from Mr. Cohen, once one of Mr. Trump’s closest aides. The peak came last Wednesday, when Mr. Cohen took the witness stand publicly before the Oversight and Reform Committee to accuse Mr. Trump of racism, bullying and outright fraud. In each venue, Republicans repeatedly pointed to Mr. Cohen’s own confessed crimes and his record of lying to Congress and the public in an attempt to discredit his testimony against the president.Still, the public session and his private interviews with the House and Senate Intelligence Committees in the days surrounding it are certain to provide newly ascendant Democrats in the House with fresh investigative leads as they scrutinize Mr. Trump’s circles. The House Intelligence Committee is scheduled to hold a public hearing next week with Felix Sater, another Trump associate involved in the Moscow project.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael TackettWASHINGTON — Tucked between St. Patrick’s Day greetings and repeat criticism of a rerun of “Saturday Night Live,” President Trump demonstrated that not even death provides a respite from his wrath on Twitter.In posts on Saturday and Sunday, Mr. Trump renewed his criticism of Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who died in August from complications from a virulent form of brain cancer.The president attacked Mr. McCain over his role in the Justice Department investigation into Russian efforts to influence the 2016 presidential election. He then added that Mr. McCain “had far worse ‘stains’ ” on his record, including the senator’s decisive vote against repealing the Affordable Care Act.“Spreading the fake and totally discredited Dossier ‘is unfortunately a very dark stain against John McCain,’” he tweeted on Saturday, quoting comments in a Fox News interview by the former independent counsel Ken Starr about the so-called Steele Dossier, which outlined a range of often salacious but unproven misdeeds by Mr. Trump and his associates.“So it was indeed (just proven in court papers) ‘last in his class’ (Annapolis) John McCain that sent the Fake Dossier to the FBI and Media hoping to have it printed BEFORE the Election,” he wrote on Sunday. “He & the Dems, working together, failed (as usual). Even the Fake News refused this garbage!”In fact, Mr. McCain provided a copy of the dossier to the F.B.I. after Election Day. But supporters of Mr. Trump have seized on the dossier’s uncorroborated accusations and political roots in the campaign as a way to try to discredit the special counsel’s Russia inquiry.The comments exemplified Mr. Trump’s model for presidential communication, both in form and tone, exploiting the power and urgency of social media, often with harsh and bitterly personal attacks. But they also sparked swift condemnation, showing that the president abandons conventional boundaries of civility like not speaking ill of the dead at his peril.“There’s no low with him,” John Weaver, who was a political adviser to Mr. McCain, said in an interview. “There’s no bottom.”Mr. Trump and Mr. McCain had a long history of enmity, one that lasted even through the senator’s death. Mr. McCain made it clear that Mr. Trump was not welcome at his memorial service in Washington, even as both President Barack Obama, who defeated Mr. McCain in the 2008 presidential race, and President George W. Bush, who defeated him in the Republican primaries in 2000, delivered eulogies.And over the weekend, the tensions resurfaced, as McCain supporters denounced the president’s tweets — and, in many cases, the president himself.Mr. Weaver criticized Mr. Trump’s avoidance of service in Vietnam, where Mr. McCain was held captive as a prisoner of war, his refusal to release his own grades while criticizing Mr. McCain’s academic performance at the United States Naval Academy, and the president’s desire to terminate the Affordable Care Act.“These are the things he wanted to attack John McCain on? Seriously?” Mr. Weaver said.“I am waiting for Republican members of the Senate who served with the senator for years and allowed him to be the point of the spear on so many issues,” he said. “Where are they?”Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and one of Mr. McCain’s closest friends, chose to praise his friend rather than criticize the president.“As to @SenJohnMcCain and his devotion to his country: He stepped forward to risk his life for his country, served honorably under difficult circumstances, and was one of the most consequential senators in the history of the body,” he said on Twitter. “Nothing about his service will ever be changed or diminished.”Mike Murphy, another McCain political adviser, displayed no such reluctance to chastise the president: “McCain was a hero,” he said. “Trump is a whimpering coward. He was afraid to go to Vietnam 47 years ago and is afraid to face the legal consequences of his actions today.”“He just has no empathy,” Mr. Murphy said. “He’s only concerned with himself.”Mark Salter, one of Mr. McCain’s closest advisers and co-author of several books with him, was even more biting.“Here is what will never change,” Mr. Salter said in a tweet. “John McCain will always be a better man than you in every way we measure a man’s character. You’ll never beat him.”The White House did not respond to a request for comment about Mr. Trump’s remarks.Still, Mr. Trump insisted on using Mr. McCain as a posthumous whipping post, even taking a dig at Mr. McCain’s academic record, calling him “last in his class.” Mr. McCain often mocked his own performance in the classroom as a midshipman, and never shied from noting that he graduated fifth from the bottom.The president had no public events on his schedule this weekend, but he kept up a barrage of tweets. He called for fealty to the Fox News personalities Jeanine Pirro, who was suspended by the network after questioning a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States, and Tucker Carlson, who has come under criticism for his remarks on a shock-jock radio program about a decade ago. Mr. Trump also again threatened to use the federal government to crack down on programs that make fun of him, singling out “Saturday Night Live.”He did participate in one unscheduled event, taking a short car ride across Pennsylvania Avenue on Sunday to attend services at St. John’s Episcopal Church, a rarity for Mr. Trump.The second reading, according to the program, was from Philippians, which begins “join together in following my example, brothers and sisters, and just as you have us as a model, keep your eyes on those who live as we do.”Advertisement
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
