AdvertisementSupported byBy Hannah Beech and Muktita SuhartonoBANGKOK — A Thai political party that nominated the sister of Thailand’s king as its candidate for prime minister was dissolved on Thursday by the constitutional court for “hostile action” against the nation’s political system and constitutional monarchy.Under Thai law, members of the royal family are considered above politics. Ubolratana Rajakanya Sirivadhana Varnavadi, 67, the elder sister of King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun, was born a princess but gave up her royal titles when she married an American in 1972.Nevertheless, within hours of Ms. Ubolratana’s nomination by the Thai Raksa Chart Party last month, King Vajiralongkorn, 66, deemed her candidacy “inappropriate,” effectively ending her brief political career.“Involvement of a high-ranking member of the royal family in politics, in any way, is against the nation’s traditions, customs and culture and is therefore considered improper and highly inappropriate,” the king said in a royal communiqué on Feb. 8.The constitutional court judges on Thursday repeatedly emphasized that the monarchy was above politics and that any taking of sides in politics would affect the neutrality of the royal institution.“The action also made Thai people feel that the monarchy, which is the heart of the Thai people, was brought down and used in a political game,” said Taweekiet Meenakanit, one of the nine judges.To prevent political violence from spreading on the streets of Bangkok, as has happened with regularity for decades, 1,200 police officers were deployed around the constitutional court on Thursday. Signs on barricades warned that protesters could face six months in prison.Supporters of the party wept when they heard the court’s judgment.With Thai Raksa Chart’s dissolution, the party’s top executives are barred from setting up new political parties for 10 years, and its more than 280 candidates are not eligible to participate in national elections scheduled for March 24.“I am devastated by the decision,” said Preechapol Pongpanich, the leader of Thai Raksa Chart. “The disruption of the political party has affected basic political rights and freedoms.”He added: “Our party, although only short-lived for four months, received a lot of kindness from the people. We want to do good for the country, and we have pure intentions.”Human rights groups were quick to condemn the court’s unanimous judgment.“This decision highlights the Thai authorities’ abuse of judicial powers to restrict the peaceful association and expression of the political opposition,” Katherine Gerson, Amnesty International’s Thailand campaigner, said in a statement.Thailand has been ruled by a military junta since a coup in 2014, which unseated forces loyal to the Shinawatra family that had dominated politics for nearly two decades. Thai Raksa Chart, whose name means “Thai Save the Nation,” was one of several parties linked to the Shinawatras running in the coming elections.Prayuth Chan-ocha, a former general and chief of the junta that masterminded the coup, was later named prime minister of Thailand by a rubber-stamp legislature. He is running for prime minister as the candidate for the Palang Pracharat Party, which is considered a proxy for a military that has engineered 12 successful coups since 1932.Political polling, though often unreliable in Thailand, puts the military-linked party well behind Pheu Thai, the main political vehicle for the Shinawatra family.Although Thailand is proceeding with the rituals of democracy — competing campaign posters on the streets, a transgender candidate for prime minister and a party whose platform focuses on the promotion of marijuana — the elections this month are much diminished.A constitution drafted under military rule gives Parliament the power to choose the prime minister, including people who are not elected members of Parliament, like Mr. Prayuth. The Senate will be appointed by the military rather than chosen by the electorate, which includes more than seven million first-time voters.Since Thaksin Shinawatra, a billionaire from Thailand’s north, burst onto the political scene as prime minister in 2001, parties aligned to him have won every election. Both Mr. Thaksin and his sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, who also served as prime minister, now live in overseas exile after corruption-linked convictions in absentia.Mr. Thaksin was unseated in a 2006 coup, amid whispers that he was building a power base that challenged the authority of Thailand’s monarchy and political forces close to it.Thailand has some of the world’s strictest lèse-majesté laws, criminalizing insults to the monarchy. During the turbulent hours in which Ms. Ubolratana’s candidacy was announced and then scorned last month, many Thai political analysts declined to comment on the unfolding political drama.Political activists and commentators have also been charged for other reasons.Last year, Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, the young leader of the Future Forward Party and a vocal critic of military rule, was accused of violating the Computer Crime Act, which penalizes the sharing of fake news and is considered a blunt political instrument by human rights groups.This month, the police filed a complaint against Pongsakorn Rodchompoo, a deputy leader of Future Forward, accusing him of contravening the same act.The fate of both politicians will be decided after the election.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]Virginia men are giving Florida Man a run for his money this week.First, Gov. Ralph Northam said he once wore blackface to dress as Michael Jackson for a dance contest, after admitting — and then denying — he posed for a racist photo in his medical school yearbook.A few days later, Lt. Gov. Justin E. Fairfax, who would take over as governor if Mr. Northam resigned, was accused of sexually assaulting a woman in 2004. He’s denied the charge, and has hired the law firm that represented Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh during his Supreme Court confirmation hearing.And on Wednesday, Attorney General Mark R. Herring, third in the line of succession and an expected candidate for governor in 2021, admitted that he, too, wore blackface at a college party in the 1980s. After a tearful meeting with black lawmakers yesterday, he suggested he could resign.If the three men, all Democrats, were to step down, next in line for the governorship would be a Republican — Kirk Cox, speaker of the House of Delegates, who got the job because a Republican’s name was picked from this ceramic bowl in a tiebreaker. (Seriously.)The controveries are a disaster for Democrats, and for Virginia, a state that has struggled with its legacy as the birthplace of American slavery.But they may also foreshadow how some of the country’s raw and polarized dynamics around gender and race could play out in the 2020 election:• For Democrats, it’s the party’s first high-stakes test of their new, zero-tolerance politics when it comes to racism and sexism — a brand the party has embraced in response to President Trump’s demagogy on race and misogynistic attacks.• For Republicans, it illustrates how they can weaponize those politics against their opposition.Republicans, it should be noted, haven’t escaped this crisis completely: It was revealed today that Thomas K. Norment Jr., the Republican majority leader in the Virginia Senate, helped oversee a yearbook that featured racist photographs and slurs. But unlike the Democrats, Mr. Norment is not high enough in the line of succession to change the balance of power in the state.While national Democrats greeted Mr. Northam’s admission with quick and near-universal condemnation, they’ve been notably more reserved when it comes to Mr. Fairfax or Mr. Herring resigning.By the standards set by their own party over the past few years, all three men could easily be pushed out of office.But Virginia Democrats face no easy choices. If the men all step down, they hand the leadership of a key battleground state to Republicans. If the men stay in office, they enter the 2019 elections severely hampered in their ability to mobilize the coalition of women and black voters they need to win in the state.Oh, and right now, Republicans have a single-seat majority in the Virginia House of Delegates, and the entire Legislature is up for election this fall — meaning the balance of the body is at stake.So how do Democrats get out of this? Some suggest Mr. Herring, who offered a seemingly heartfelt apology, could survive.“He reached out to each of us individually, very apologetic,” United States Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia told our colleague Catie Edmondson today. “He is in dialogue with the legislative black caucus and African-American leadership in the state, and they have been impressed with his sincerity, while they’ve been very disappointed with what happened.”However it’s resolved, it’s clear that Republicans see a way to use the new politics of the Democratic Party against them. Don’t forget, this situation started because Mr. Northam made comments supporting a state bill that would roll back restrictions on late-term abortions. His remarks prompted a “concerned citizen” to point a right-wing website toward the blackface photo in his medical school yearbook.Mr. Trump seized on Mr. Northam’s remarks in his State of the Union address, using them to call for legislation banning late-term abortions. This morning, he tweeted an even more direct attack.Republicans are already riding high off another racial controversy that they believe played into their hands: A viral video first seemed to show a group of Catholic boys in MAGA hats in a standoff with a Native American veteran, but the narrative grew complicated as more videos emerged, eventually earning the boys an invitation to the White House.The boys, it’s worth noting, were in Washington for the March for Life, an annual anti-abortion rally.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________We were curious to know more about the Green New Deal. So we turned to Lisa Friedman, who covers climate and environmental policy in Washington for The Times. Here’s what she told us:You might have heard talk of a Green New Deal, a proposal backed by the rising liberal star Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and thousands of young activists with the lofty ambitions of not only fighting climate change, but also racial, social and economic injustice.If you weren’t clear on exactly what the Green New Deal aimed to do, though, you weren’t alone. Even the Democratic presidential candidates who embraced it were vague.“We’re going to have to work through the details,” Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts told me last week, when I asked whether she supported some of the specifics that had been floating around. Senator Kamala Harris of California said there were “many versions” of the proposal, “all worthy of consideration.”But now lawmakers have finally put some flesh on the bones of the Green New Deal, introducing a sweeping resolution today that seeks to define the policy. Here are a few key highlights:• The Green New Deal calls for the United States to reach “net zero” emissions within 10 years. That would include shifting America’s power grid to “clean, renewable and zero-emissions energy sources,” increasing the energy efficiency of buildings and creating electric vehicle infrastructure to eliminate planet-warming emissions from transportation.• It also calls for a host of social-justice efforts not normally associated with saving the planet. For example, the measure would guarantee “a job with a family-sustaining wage, adequate family and medical leave, paid vacations and retirement security to all people of the United States.” It also guarantees “high quality education,” health care and adequate housing.• The resolution includes no details on how to pay for the sweeping societal changes, though a fact sheet provided by congressional staff makes the case that it will pay for itself. “The Green New Deal is a massive investment program, not an expenditure,” proponents of the measure wrote. “We will finance the investments for the Green New Deal the same way we paid for the original New Deal, World War II, the bank bailouts, tax cuts for the rich, and decades of war — with public money appropriated by Congress.”It’s unclear whether the measure will even get to the House floor, where Democrats hold a majority, and it’s likely dead on arrival in the Republican-held Senate. Yet as a messaging and policy tool for Democrats going into the 2020 presidential race, the Green New Deal promises to be a big deal.Read Lisa’s story: Democrats Formally Call for a Green New Deal, Giving Substance to a Rallying CryWe want to hear your thoughts on the Green New Deal. Send an email to onpolitics@nytimes.com, including your name and state, and we may include it in the next edition of the newsletter.____________________• In the world of big-wave surfing — one of the most dangerous sports on earth — women are fighting for the right to compete alongside men.• Facebook’s apps and websites have been blocked in China for years. But that hasn’t stopped the company from making money there.• Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was seen in public on Monday. So why do some people still insist she’s dead? The Washington Post digs into a new conspiracy theory.____________________If you are the mysterious Nebraska constituent sending Senator Ben Sasse insult-filled fortune cookies, call us. Please._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article misstated how Kirk Cox became speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates. His name was not chosen from a bowl; a fellow Republican’s name was picked from the bowl in a tiebreaker, giving the party control of the House.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Isabel KershnerBEER TUVIA, Israel — The military chiefs appeared on screen in full battle dress, commanding troops, sitting in cockpits or charging across deserts with assault rifles.The video clip that opened a pre-election town hall meeting at the small, prosperous farming community of Beer Tuvia in southern Israel was not a trailer for the next war against the militant groups Hezbollah or Hamas. It was a promo for how the triumvirate of ex-soldier statesmen leading the new centrist Blue and White coalition intends to oust the longtime conservative incumbent, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.Election victories by prominent military veterans are nothing new in Israel. Two former chiefs of staff, Yitzhak Rabin and Ehud Barak, served as prime minister. But after a drop-off in recent years in the political involvement of retired generals, they are back in the vanguard, posing the most formidable challenge in a decade to Mr. Netanyahu.Even though Mr. Netanyahu is facing possible indictment in three corruption cases this summer, he has maintained a strong, popular base of support. The Blue and White leaders and other critics of Mr. Netanyahu have presented the return of the generals as a one-time, emergency call-up for the sake of the country and clean government.Surrounded by hostile neighbors, Israel has generally shifted to the right, and leftists are widely criticized as naïve and feckless about threats from Iran and its militant allies on Israel’s doorsteps. Many liberals view the centrist generals as the only real match for Mr. Netanyahu, who has led the diplomatic campaign against Iran on the world stage and has acquired an aura of invincibility.“If you are a general, you are not a wimp,” said Gadi Wolfsfeld, a professor of political communications at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya near Tel Aviv. “The wimp factor is very important in Israel.”Israeli elections are set for April 9 against a background of simmering tensions with Hamas in the south and Hezbollah to the north. For years, Mr. Netanyahu has relied on the politics of fear and projected himself as the only one who can keep Israelis secure.Polls show the Blue and White alliance is slightly ahead of Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud party, but it might have a harder time than Likud in assembling enough partners to form a governing coalition.The Blue and White commanders — former chiefs of staff Benny Gantz, Gabi Ashkenazi and Moshe Yaalon — boast a wealth of experience in tough decision-making, fighting Israel’s battles and protecting its citizens. They joined ranks with an existing centrist party led by the distinctly civilian Yair Lapid, a former journalist, television host and finance minister.“The population loves generals,” Mr. Wolfsfeld said. “They have leadership qualities. They are the only ones who can be in the center and have a chance of winning.”Mr. Gantz, a political newcomer and candidate for prime minister, has a reputation as uncorrupt and refined. Mr. Ashkenazi, also new to politics, has a rougher warrior image as a former commander of the Golani Brigade, a macho front-line combat unit.Mr. Yaalon has political experience: He joined the Likud party in 2008 and served as Mr. Netanyahu’s defense minister before breaking with him in 2016.Mr. Netanyahu and the generals seem to represent two Israels. Mr. Netanyahu’s is seen by opponents as divisive and polarizing. The Israel Defense Forces, the country’s most popular and respected institution, has historically been an apolitical unifier and equalizer. Many view it as the last bastion of national consensus in a diverse and fractious society.“It goes back to the creation of Israel, when David Ben-Gurion put the army above all other institutions,” said Avi Shilon, a historian, referring to Israel’s first prime minister. “The army became the logical, responsible place in Israeli society,” said Mr. Shilon, who teaches at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and New York University’s campus in Tel Aviv.The lines are blurred between the general population and the army, a conscription force that drafts most Jewish 18-year-olds, male and female, for more than two years of compulsory service.A dozen former chiefs of staff have entered politics, starting with Moshe Dayan who served as defense minister during the Six Day War in 1967. But they have not always been successful.Experts partly attribute the drop-off in generals entering politics in recent years to a 2007 law requiring a three-year interval for senior officers between taking off their uniforms and running for Parliament. The legislation was promoted by a Netanyahu loyalist and is considered to have worked to the prime minister’s advantage by excluding potential rivals, because the three-year delay dims some of the celebrity shine from the retiring generals.“The public memory is short,” said Zipi Israeli, an expert in military and civil relations at the Institute for National Security Studies at Tel Aviv University.The image of generals as heroes also has faded, Ms. Israeli said, as Israel’s battles have become more contentious and less decisive.Still, the generals are seen as the best chance for those belonging to the anti-Netanyahu camp under the slogan “Anyone But Bibi,” a reference to Mr. Netanyahu’s common nickname.Not to be outdone, the opposition Labor party recruited Tal Rousso, a former southern command chief, for its No. 2 spot. Before joining up with Blue and White, Mr. Lapid brought Orna Barbivai, the first woman to reach the rank of major general in the army, onto his own party list.The Likud bolstered its ranks with Yoav Galant, another former southern commander who moved over from a smaller party.More often than not, retired generals and security chiefs have been a moderating force in Israeli politics. Perhaps having been closer to the horrors of war, most have tended toward the center or left of the political map, advocating separation and accommodation with the Palestinians, even if they see no immediate prospect of resolving the conflict.Opposition by generals and security chiefs prevented a possible Israeli decision in 2010 to attack Iran’s nuclear facilities. Mr. Netanyahu has accused Mr. Gantz of being soft on Iran’s ayatollahs and of supporting the 2015 international deal to curb Iran’s nuclear program — an agreement that Mr. Netanyahu considered disastrous.Since the start of the election campaign, Mr. Netanyahu has emphasized that he also is Israel’s defense minister, part of an effort to capitalize on public sympathy for soldiers. He visited military bases and took selfies with the troops until the elections commission barred him from exploiting them for political purposes.To circumvent the ban, his Likud party filmed a campaign ad accusing Mr. Gantz of being part of the “dangerous” left, against the backdrop of military graves. The ad stirred a backlash.In Beer Tuvia, Mr. Gantz was introduced as a lieutenant general in the reserves but he took the stage in a dark suit and white shirt. His agenda was purely civilian. He pledged to work for LGBT rights, to help Israel’s struggling farmers, to increase benefits for people with disabilities and to reduce the exorbitant cost of living.“These are people who gave their lives to the state and now their goal is the good of the country,” said Menachem Por, 73, a retired farmer and a disabled army veteran from the 1967 war, explaining the attraction of the generals. “If we put our soldiers’ lives in their hands, there’s no reason they can’t run the country.”Anat Shindler, 58, a cosmetician, said, “I like to believe they come clean to politics.”Maor Douiev, 34, who had just returned from a trip to India, said his own military service had been “very problematic” and that he believed in nonviolence. But he said he would vote for the Blue and White generals “because Bibi has to go and we need a good alternative.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byPolitical MemoBy Susan Chira[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.]Wife. Widow. Daughter.For decades in American politics, successful female candidates often belonged to political dynasties, following in the footsteps of a husband or father and relying on their famous last names to reassure voters. That has shifted in recent years: Few if any of the women who won new House seats in November came from powerful political families, and none of the six female presidential candidates do, either.With Hillary Clinton saying last week that she would not run for president, Mrs. Clinton became both a trailblazing figure and a transitional one. She rose to prominence as the wife of Bill Clinton, as he led Arkansas and then the nation. Her work as first lady helped her become a senator from New York. Over time, because of her own accomplishments, she advanced: presidential candidate, secretary of state, the first woman to be nominated by a major party for the White House.With Mrs. Clinton not planning to be the seventh woman running in 2020, an endlessly debated question of 2016 — did some voters resist a woman or this woman? — can be tested with women who do not have her political baggage or what turned out to be her establishment stigma.These women, such as Senators Amy Klobuchar and Kamala Harris, had significant careers in public service in their home states before reaching Washington, and they are now running for president with messages that aim to appeal broadly across ideological and gender lines. Another 2020 candidate, Senator Elizabeth Warren, had an admired career as a law professor before her consumer protection policy interests drew her into government. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand’s grandmother was an influential figure in Albany politics, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard’s father entered elected office around the same time she did, but their family histories in public service are not a factor in the 2020 race. Most of the women who ran for House, Senate and governor in 2018 had also worked their way up professional or political ladders without a male relation going first.[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, who succeeded her husband in Congress in 2015, says she believes that she and Mrs. Clinton are emblematic of changing times for women in politics. “I do think I’m that transition,” she said. “Some people would like to say she got it because she had the last name,” referring to her seat in Congress. “But I have my own strong qualifications, and I want people to judge me on what I do.”Her husband, John Dingell, who died last month, represented her district for 59 years before she ran for office in 2014; his father had served before him. But Ms. Dingell said she worked to establish her own record of accomplishments. She rose at General Motors before she met her husband, kept her career after they married, and headed commissions on a range of issues in Michigan. She was offered entree into Democratic politics in 2000 initially by the president of the United Automobile Workers union, whom she knew from General Motors. When she ran, she said she asked her husband, to his dismay, not to appear at her events.Ms. Dingell said she was the first woman to succeed her husband in Congress while he was still alive. The Center for American Women and Politics counts 47 widows elected or appointed to Congress in their husband’s place. Among them was Margaret Chase Smith, a Republican, who ran for president in 1964, long after her husband’s career was forgotten, said Ellen Fitzpatrick, author of “The Highest Glass Ceiling: Women’s Quest for the American Presidency.”Female leaders with famous last names — as well as male leaders who have come from family dynasties too — have been members of both political parties over the years; Senator Lisa Murkowski and former senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum both had fathers who were prominent Republicans.Jean Carnahan, who had been the first lady of Missouri, was appointed to fill the Senate seat held by her husband, Mel, a Democrat, when he died just before the election in 2000. She recalled what it was like to be an active political partner behind the scenes.“During my husband’s 20-some campaigns, I did the things he least enjoyed doing and that I preferred: writing speeches, designing campaign material, coming up with themes, designing the database, writing letters, scheduling, fund-raising,” she said. As a result, she felt prepared to assume his seat. Although she lost re-election, her daughter (and her son) later entered politics on their own.Lynn Yeakel, who lost narrowly to Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania when she ran in 1992, said growing up as the child of an 11-term congressman, Porter Hardy Jr., allowed her to envision running for office herself. Like Speaker Nancy Pelosi, whose father was a Maryland congressman, Ms. Yeakel said, “that’s the era when those of us who were exposed to political lives with our fathers were not daunted.”Nonetheless, as a candidate, she said: “I was defined in terms of the men in my life on more than one occasion. That was so infuriating.” She had to dissociate herself from her father’s vote against civil rights legislation during her own campaign.Male leaders may have provided women with national exposure and political networks, but as Mrs. Clinton found, their conduct and record could also be liabilities. She was criticized not only for her husband’s treatment of women, but also for her embrace of aggressive counterattacks against women who accused Mr. Clinton.Before she married, she was already known from her student days at Wellesley College and her work on the staff of the special counsel to the House Judiciary Committee that recommended impeaching President Richard M. Nixon. She subordinated her career for many years to her husband’s.“You never know with Hillary Clinton, had she not met Bill Clinton, she might well have been a political woman in her own right and maybe life would have been simpler for her,” said Debbie Walsh, director of the Center for American Women and Politics.Bill Shaheen, a powerful figure in New Hampshire Democratic circles and the husband of Jeanne Shaheen, the former governor of New Hampshire and now one of its senators, said that American women no longer needed men to pave the way for them. “Jeanne and I made a pact 50 years ago when we got married: I would make the money, and she would make a difference,” he said. “That didn’t happen so much then. It’s happening now all the time.”Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy changed the dynamic for women who followed her in other ways, too. She meticulously checked all the boxes for what used to be required credentials for the presidency. No major female presidential candidate today has a résumé as expansive as Mrs. Clinton’s, but they are nonetheless seen as credible.Because so many women are running in 2020, with their range of political experience, ideology and race, the coming election may be a truer test of gender attitudes. “There’s now an awful lot of diversity among these women, you’re not stuck with just one, you get to choose,” Ms. Walsh said. “Let’s see where that goes.”Women running in 2020 may also be better armed than Mrs. Clinton was against a candidate who broke all political conventions by attacking women in aggressive, sexist terms. “Now they have a bit of a road map,” Ms. Walsh said. “Even things like that horrible last debate, where he was hulking around her, she says in her book, ‘I made the decision not to respond to him and in retrospect maybe I should have turned around and said, back off buddy.’ I think the women running now learned some of that.”Ms. Dingell, however, sounded a note of caution. “I think there are still challenges for women,” she said, including access to money and networks and even some degree of residual backlash. “It’s just we’re in changing times. People are feeling threatened.”Terry Shumaker, who worked on both Clintons’ New Hampshire campaigns, said Mrs. Clinton’s popular vote victory was more of a landmark in shifting attitudes than is often recognized.“I’ve always believed that when we vote for president, it’s a different vote than any other vote we cast,” he said. “It’s a more visceral, gut kind of thing — we want mommy or daddy, somebody bigger than life who will keep us safe. She made it possible for people to envision a woman being president.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byPolitical MemoBy Alexander Burns and Jonathan MartinA small group of Republican strategists opposed to President Trump, branding themselves Defending Democracy Together, quietly conducted polling and focus groups last fall to gauge whether the president was vulnerable to a primary challenge in 2020. Assembling a presentation for sympathetic political donors, they listed points of weakness for Mr. Trump such as “tweeting/temperament” and “criminality/corruption.”The group concluded that Mr. Trump’s scandals were not yet badly damaging him with Republican-leaning voters: “Even relatively high information voters aren’t paying particularly close attention to day-to-day scandals,” the presentation stated. But it added that there was “room to educate voters” on the subject.Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer, may have begun that education on Wednesday.With Mr. Cohen’s appearance before a House committee, the public airing of ethical transgressions by Mr. Trump reached a new phase, one that may be harder to ignore for friends and foes alike. The spectacle of Mr. Trump’s onetime enforcer denouncing him in televised proceedings, detailing a catalog of allegations of cruelty and crimes, signaled the pressure the president’s already strained coalition could feel in the coming months as Congress scrutinizes him, and as the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III completes his investigation.Republicans still find it difficult to imagine that Mr. Trump’s electoral base would ever desert him, though they acknowledge that bond may soon be tested as never before. Mr. Trump’s core supporters — numbering about two in five American voters, polls suggest — have stayed with him through revelations of financial and sexual impropriety, painful electoral setbacks and the longest government shutdown in history.Robert Blizzard, a Republican pollster, said public opinion of Mr. Trump had proved remarkably fixed over time, “despite over two years of countless stories about Russia, Stormy Daniels, Michael Cohen and others.” He dismissed the possibility that Mr. Cohen would shift opinion on either the left or the right.“The president’s base is rock solid, and his opposition is equally rock solid,” Mr. Blizzard said.Ralph Reed, a longtime evangelical leader, said Mr. Trump’s record of delivering on conservative priorities had effectively cemented his own party in place, fostering particular loyalty among Christian conservatives with two Supreme Court appointments and efforts to restrict abortion rights.“He made a set of promises and he not only kept them — he is in many cases exceeding them,” Mr. Reed said.Mr. Trump may be demanding more and more loyalty from his political base as the adversity he faces in Washington grows more intensely personal. Even before he asks conservatives to secure him a second term in 2020, Mr. Trump will be relying on the right flank of the G.O.P. to keep congressional Republicans in line, as a Democratic-led House conducts intrusive investigations.Yet in the electoral arena, Mr. Trump’s political survival has long depended on his ability to marry the unbending support of his fiercest followers with the ambivalent backing of more traditional right-of-center voters — people who view him as a distasteful character but favor his economic policies, or who preferred him over Hillary Clinton in 2016.Many voters in the latter group defected to vote for Democrats in the midterm elections or stayed home, helping deliver the House into Democratic hands. Should the same thing happen in 2020, it would be very difficult for Mr. Trump to assemble the Electoral College votes he needs to win a second term.It may grow more difficult for Mr. Trump to reforge his 2016 coalition if he faces protracted humiliation of the sort inflicted by Mr. Cohen. In addition to denouncing Mr. Trump as a racist, a liar and a habitual business cheat, Mr. Cohen hinted at the gravity of an investigation by federal prosecutors in New York. And he may have pointed the way toward potential future hearings involving Mr. Trump’s employees and even family members.Some Republicans who have been critical of Mr. Trump have suggested that a turbulent first half of 2019 could create an opening for other Republicans to enter the presidential race, if prosecutors allege that Mr. Trump has broken laws or if the president begins to appear so politically weak that the party fears it could lose the 2020 election in a rout.Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, a moderate Republican who is weighing a primary challenge to Mr. Trump, suggested in a recent interview that the president’s strength as a candidate was a big question mark and speculated that Mr. Trump might ultimately choose not to seek another term.“He’s pretty strong in a Republican primary at this time,” Mr. Hogan said, adding vaguely, “I don’t know what’s going to happen over the next several months.”Mr. Hogan suggested that Mr. Trump’s command of the Republican base could be attributed mainly to conservatives’ revulsion with the Democratic Party, more than their thoroughgoing affection for Mr. Trump.“He’s the president and Republicans are saying, ‘Well, we support the Republican president and we don’t like some of these far-left Democratic alternatives,’” Mr. Hogan said.For most Americans who view Mr. Trump with distaste or worse, Mr. Cohen’s testimony most likely served to confirm their darkest views of the president. A majority of the country has viewed Mr. Trump from the start as a person of low character and limited aptitude for leadership, traits Mr. Cohen highlighted at exhaustive length.So far, Democrats have largely acted as if Mr. Trump’s personal defects are so well known that they require scant elaboration. That was the strategy most Democratic candidates adopted in the key midterm elections, trusting Mr. Trump’s unpopularity to weigh down Republicans but focusing chiefly on issues like health care.Several of the leading 2020 candidates have made references to the president’s tribulations, but mainly in the form of passing applause lines. Senator Kamala Harris of California alludes to Mr. Trump’s scandals and her background as a district attorney by urging Democrats to nominate someone who can “prosecute the case” against Mr. Trump.” On a recent trip to Iowa, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts joked that Mr. Trump “may not even be a free person” at the time of the next election.Republicans are quick to point out that no presidential race is a simple up-or-down vote on the incumbent, and they remain hopeful that Democrats will nominate a candidate aligned with the far left who could alienate some moderates and induce them to give new consideration to Mr. Trump.Henry Barbour, an influential member of the Republican National Committee from Mississippi, said he did not believe events like Mr. Cohen’s testimony would affect his support within the G.O.P., noting that Republicans did not think Mr. Trump was “a Boy Scout when they voted for him in ’16.”“Ultimately, this is going to be a choice between Donald Trump and somebody who sounds like they think the U.S. should be a socialist country,” Mr. Barbour said.But party strategists like Mr. Barbour acknowledge the president’s misconduct has made him vulnerable to defeat, at least if Democrats put forward a broadly appealing candidate.“If Democrats nominated a moderate from the heartland of the country, then it would be a much tougher race,” Mr. Barbour said.One challenge for Mr. Trump, however, is that he will have no easy foil until Democrats settle on their presidential nominee sometime next year.“Trump is always better when he has somebody to pick on,” said Wes Gullett, a Republican strategist based in Arizona, adding wryly, “If Democrats were smart, they would move their convention back until about Oct. 15.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Hannah Beech and Muktita SuhartonoBANGKOK — A military-linked party took an unexpected lead in elections in Thailand on Sunday, most likely cementing the army’s status as the country’s dominant political force.With more than 90 percent of the ballots counted, Palang Pracharat, the military’s proxy party, had 7.5 million votes, according to a preliminary count by the Election Commission.Thailand’s military has orchestrated more than a dozen successful coups, the latest in 2014, and has ruled the country through a junta since then.Pheu Thai, the populist party that had been expected to finish first according to most polls, was in second place with seven million votes, the Election Commission reported.Pheu Thai is the latest incarnation of a populist force that was toppled in the last two coups. The party is a political vehicle of Thaksin Shinawatra, a polarizing former prime minister whose aligned parties have won every election since 2001.Sunday’s vote count, however, which was for the lower house of Parliament, appeared to end Mr. Thaksin’s winning streak.But even if Pheu Thai had won the most votes of any party, it would have faced significant obstacles to forming a new government.A Constitution drafted by the junta ensures that the military appoints all 250 members of the Senate, meaning that army-linked forces were positioned to control a majority of Parliament, unless the opposition won the lower house by a landslide.Late on Sunday night, the Election Commission announced that it would release further results on Monday morning, leaving the counting unfinished. Another announcement delayed the time to the early afternoon.Voter turnout, at nearly 66 percent, was lower than the expected 80 percent. Nearly 6 percent of ballots were invalidated, the Election Commission reported, raising concerns about the integrity of the vote.“This election is irregular,” said Phumtham Wechayachai, Pheu Thai’s secretary general.Nuttaa Mahattana, a democracy activist who is facing four sedition charges, said that the reports of ballot irregularities paled in comparison to the overall imbalance built into the Thai political system by the military-backed Constitution.“Cheating in the election started when they drafted the Constitution,” Ms. Nuttaa said.The military’s proxy party had campaigned on stability and on defending Thailand’s monarchy. It nominated Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, the leader of the junta that orchestrated the 2014 coup, to continue in his post.“The military, especially since General Prayuth came to power, has penetrated every corner of Thai society and politics,” said Surat Horachaikul, a political-science professor at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. “It will not easily recede from politics.”Openly dismissive of democratic traditions, Mr. Prayuth has repeatedly delayed elections and overseen a diminution of political freedoms. Activists have been jailed or sent to so-called attitude adjustment camps. Cybercrime and sedition prosecutions have increased. Students who dared make the three-finger salute from the “Hunger Games” films were arrested.Even before a single vote was cast, electoral rules blunted the power of certain political blocs. The threat of dissolution or jail time for leaders hangs over several anti-junta parties, including Pheu Thai, as well as Future Forward, a youth-inspired party that was contesting its first elections and surged to third place in the partial counting.Thailand’s complicated system of apportioning seats from votes means that Pheu Thai could still win around the same number of seats in the 500-seat lower house as Palang Pracharat, but with the Senate firmly in the military’s hand, its power as an opposition party will be diminished.Uttama Savanayana, the leader of Palang Pracharat, said in a news conference that Mr. Prayuth had already called to commend him on the party’s performance.The official election results will be released by early May. With the unexpectedly strong performance by the military, it appears that the tense status quo will continue in Thailand, with the military-backed government in control and voters seeking change frustrated.On social media on Sunday night, the hashtag #prayforthailand was trending high.Ever since Mr. Thaksin, a former telecommunications billionaire from northern Thailand, swept to power in 2001, buoyed by support from the country’s rice-growing heartland, the nation has been split between an establishment elite and a populist groundswell. By some accounts, Thailand is the most unequal society on earth, and its wealth gap has only widened during five years of junta rule.“Pheu Thai Party is always on the people’s side,” said Nongnuch Waree, who voted for the Thaksin-associated party on Sunday. “Their policies touch the people of all classes, especially the lower class.”In election after election, the largest bloc of voters has chosen parties aligned with Mr. Thaksin, appreciative of his parties’ health care and rice subsidies. Just as predictably, the military has launched coups, one against him and one against the government of his sister, Yingluck Shinawatra. Security forces crushed protests by loyalists to Mr. Thaksin, killing dozens.On Saturday evening, hours before polling stations opened, the palace released an unscheduled statement from King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun, who has stressed that the monarchy is “above politics.” The palace statement urged voters to “support good people to rule the country and prevent bad people from gaining power and causing trouble and disorder.”“His Majesty is concerned about the stability of the nation, the feelings and happiness of the people,” the communiqué added.Last month, King Vajiranlongkorn quashed the hopes of his elder sister, Ubolratana Rajakanya Sirivadhana Varnavadi, who had been nominated by another Thaksin-aligned party to serve as its candidate for prime minister. Hours after her candidacy was announced by the Thai Raksa Chart Party, the king issued a royal command saying it was “inappropriate,” and her political foray ended.The Constitutional Court ruled this month that Ms. Ubolratana’s candidacy was a “hostile action,” and Thai Raksa Chart was dissolved.On Friday, Ms. Ubolratana was pictured on social media at a Hong Kong wedding celebration of Mr. Thaksin’s daughter. In a highly unusual physical display for Thais, she was shown in one photo hugging Mr. Thaksin, who has been in overseas exile since a corruption-linked conviction.Nearly 15 percent of Sunday’s electorate was composed of new voters, aged 18 to 25. Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, the leader of Future Forward, tried to carve a new path between the political forces that have dominated — and divided — Thai politics for nearly two decades.Mr. Thanathorn, the 40-year-old scion of an auto parts magnate family, ran a campaign that relied as much on an online presence as a physical one.“It’s time for Thailand to be ruled by new faces,” said Napakan Sangdang, a 21-year-old accounting graduate from a vocational school, as she emerged from voting in Bangkok. “I don’t know if he is really good, but we are giving him the chance to try.”Mr. Thanathorn, who could be jailed if a computer crimes case against him proceeds, perhaps in the coming week, said that neither the election nor the entire political system was free or fair. Human rights groups consider the charges against him politically motivated.The junta leaders, Mr. Thanathorn said, “wrote the Constitution, regulated the elections and are the players within their own game.”But, he added, Future Forward “is willing to play by their game.”Future Forward’s strong showing came as support withered for the Democrat Party, Thailand’s oldest party and an establishment mainstay in Bangkok. During campaigning, the party had hinted that it could lead a coalition. In Sunday’s partial counting, however, the Democrats were in fourth place.Abhisit Vejjajiva, the party leader, resigned on Sunday night, acknowledging that his party had been torn by internal infighting and had lost votes to newer political parties.For some in Thailand, the elections, however flawed, appeared to be a tool for restoring respectability to a country that considers itself one of Asia’s oldest democracies.“This election is important not only for our country but for our relationship with the U.S. and China,” said Natapong Kasemsant, a bank executive in Bangkok, who was voting at a polling station under the shade of tamarind trees.“We need a government that knows how to balance power between these two big countries,” Mr. Natapong said, declining to disclose which party he voted for but acknowledging he came from a military family.“It’s not only about domestic politics,” Mr. Natapong said. “It’s about Thailand’s place in the world.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.Four years ago, the Conservative Political Action Conference featured a parade of Republican stars. There was Ted Cruz! Chris Christie! Marco Rubio! Rand Paul! Even the reality TV personality Donald J. Trump made an appearance.Fast forward to 2019. Now, there’s only one attraction: President Trump.This year at CPAC, attendees can pose at a fake White House podium, admire an enormous mural of Mr. Trump with a bald eagle, and buy MAGA gear at an official Trump store set up at the front of the convention center. Wandering the halls are once-high-profile supporters of Mr. Trump like Kris Kobach, who lost his bid for governor of Kansas, and the former White House press secretary Sean Spicer.Founded in 1974 as a protest of sorts against President Richard Nixon, the conservative confab used to be a wild event, a mash-up of religious leaders, Tea Partyers in colonial garb and all kinds of fringier parts of the right. From the stage, rising Republican stars fought for their support.This is where Ronald Reagan, as governor of California, tested early versions of his message of a “shining city on a hill.” Where Newt Gingrich celebrated becoming House speaker. Where Mitt Romney described himself as “severely conservative” as he tried to win over the base in 2012. And where Mr. Trump first alluded to running for president as a Republican eight years ago.CPAC is the place where conservative activists have long declared their priorities to the Republican establishment.But in 2019, they don’t need to make their agenda known to the establishment. They are the establishment.“This is probably my eighth or ninth CPAC, and it feels very different,” said Mark Lloyd of Virginia, who headed up a Tea Party organization before backing the Trump campaign. “You’ve actually got people here now that they don’t doubt Trump. Trump doubt is dissipated.”During my visit, speaker after speaker thanked the president: for nominating Brett Kavanaugh, fighting abortion rights, standing up for Israel, supporting gun rights. They blasted Democrats for threatening impeachment.“We’ve got a lot in common now — I like him and he likes him,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, a onetime critic of Mr. Trump who has become one of the president’s strongest supporters. “Four more years.”Of course, the biggest attraction on the agenda is the president, who will address the crowd on Saturday. Vice President Mike Pence speaks tomorrow, along with a number of other administration officials and supporters.But conservative celebrities, not political leaders, are the big draw. Diamond and Silk, two African-American women who have become minor internet stars for their videos praising Mr. Trump, got the liveliest reception today. “When they try to play the race card, I want you all to stand up and play the Trump card, so we can win and win,” they said, as the audience jumped to their feet, cheering.The issues that could expose some cracks in the Republican Party — trade, economic populism, the emergency declaration over the border wall — got little attention compared to topics like abortion, censorship of conservatives and the rise of socialism.In my tour through the conference, I found that it lacked the kind of freewheeling energy that once made it a must-see political show. The audience wasn’t nearly as raucous, the garb not nearly as gonzo. Even the infamous straw poll, once a test of conservative opinion, asked participants to rate not Republicans but Democrats.Some of that is because Republicans are no longer fighting for power in the same way, given that the party controls the Senate, the Supreme Court and the White House. Some is a result of how the organizers have worked over recent years to push out the raucous Ron Paul supporters who once overran the event.But mostly, the changed atmosphere underscores just how much the president and his brand of no-holds-barred politicking has conquered the Republican Party.____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________When we talk about the Democratic presidential field, we mostly focus on what Democratic voters think about the various candidates. We thought it might be fun to flip the question and ask Republicans which Democrat worries them most. Here’s some of what attendees of CPAC had to say:“I would say probably Joe Biden. The Rust Belt is why Trump won, and I think he would have the biggest shot of winning over those voters.” — David Shaulis, student, 22, Maryland.“I say Tulsi Gabbard. She taps into some of the more centrist viewpoints. I think a lot of people on both sides are sick of the foreign policy entanglements. It’s not necessarily right or left.” — Ken Greenberg, student, 20, Maryland.“Kamala Harris is extraordinarily dynamic. She has a certain presence I think it all boils down to this at this point. It’s the image you can create. She’s strong, she is a woman,” — Joyce Porter, retiree, 76, Virginia.____________________This is The Soapbox, a forum for you to share your thoughts with us and your fellow On Politics readers. In today’s edition, readers from across California sound off on the relationship between President Trump and Gov. Gavin Newsom. (The responses have been edited for length and clarity.)Deborah Russell of Sacramento:As a lifelong Californian of 68 years, I have to say that Trump is the worst president during my lifetime. There is an old saying that I’ve been hearing my entire life: As goes California, so goes the nation. I am not naïve enough to think it could ever happen, but many of us would just as soon secede from the union. We “need” him? I don’t think so.Jon Kragh of Greenbrae:While I am no fan of the president, I also believe the ‘fast train’ was a boondoggle of the highest order and believe we should return the money to the federal government (since the project was cancelled). And while California has the largest economy in the nation, we don’t run our the public sector that well (for example, our K to 12 schools rank 44th in the nation and we can’t seem to manage natural disasters like fires all that well). I would hope the governor would find ‘common ground’ with the president and stop grandstanding as a lightning-rod liberal in order to position himself for his run at the presidency.Allen Hurlburt of Tulelake:I am a Republican and am bothered by the huge trend to a one-party state. But the GOP has been and is failing us on both a national scale and statewide. Trump is a total disaster, I am loath to admit that we actually elected him president. At one time, Republicans were for reducing the deficit, not ballooning it as the last tax cut is doing. We supported responsible government and responsible tax policy. Trump and McConnell have totally discarded that philosophy and are focused on “building a wall,” kicking out a huge part of our population that have integrated into our economy in a very positive way.Lauren Steele, junior at Redwood High School (Gavin Newsom’s alma mater):Like most other people in my state, I disapprove of Trump’s utter ignorance and disrespect toward California. His snarky tweets attacking my state are a perfect reflection of his character and the way he treats others. Trump has mastered the art of victim-shaming, whether it be about victims of sexual assault or victims of the California fires. He has managed to blame California for global environmental problems that he still refuses to believe in. Trump still resents us for our political stance as a state, and he will continue to blame us for problems that he has the power to address.Thank you to our California readers for writing in! We got a ton of responses, and sadly couldn’t include them all here. But we read everything that comes into our inbox. If you want to share your thoughts, you can reach us here: onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________• As the 2020 field grows more and more crowded, Democrats are debating entering the race really early or just plain old-fashioned early.• Pacific Gas & Electric, the California utility, said that its equipment had probably caused the catastrophic November fire that destroyed thousands of homes in Paradise, Calif., and killed at least 86 people.• The Atlantic explores our new national religion of “workism” — and how it’s making us all miserable.____________________America’s first hipster president?_____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byHow the Greens and the Liberals became the country’s most important parties.By Alexander GörlachMr. Görlach is a senior fellow at the Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs.They call Bavaria the Texas of Germany, and not only for its beautiful countryside and roaring economy. Like Texas, Bavaria has been historically divided politically, with traditionally minded conservatives in its small towns and liberals and progressives in its cities. That is, until state elections last year. The center-right Christian Social Union held onto power, though its grip slipped, while the center-left Social Democrats were nearly wiped out in Bavaria’s cities. The Social Democrats have weakened everywhere lately, so their catastrophic showing in Bavaria wasn’t a surprise. The shock was who replaced them: the Greens.The rise of the Greens — they have a nearly 20 percent support in recent polls, close to a record high — is not unique among the country’s smaller parties. After being barred from the Bundestag in 2013 because they didn’t reach the 5 percent threshold of support, the Free Democrats, a pro-business, libertarian-minded party, have rapidly regained voters under their dynamic 40-year-old leader, Christian Lindner.While the Free Democrats are less popular than the Greens — they get about 10 percent in most polls — their parallel rise over the last few years, coming alongside significant drops in support for historically dominant parties, points to the possibility of a wholesale realignment of German politics. In the second half of the 20th century, the great fault line in German politics ran between the conservative Christian Democrats (and their Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union) and the liberal Social Democrats. The right was generally against government spending, except on the military, and held “traditional” values on abortion and marriage; the left supported a more beneficent welfare state and a more open German culture. Above all, they divided on class: the middle class on the right, the workers on the left. That all changed in the 21st century. The new divide is between two groups that the British author David Goodhart terms “anywheres” and “somewheres.” The anywheres are the highly educated, urban and socially liberal; the somewheres live in the countryside, have a lower level of education and hold more traditional notions of family and society. The growing popularity of the Greens bears witness to this trend. The party’s core theme remains ecological, but it is increasingly taking stands on on social matters such as immigration and gay marriage, which are primarily of interest to “anywheres.” They reject both the class-centric politics of the Social Democrats, as well as the traditional-value-minded Christian Democrats. That’s why the Christian Democrats managed to hold on in rural parts of Bavaria, even as the Social Democrats were wiped out. A similar story has played out in neighboring Baden-Württemberg, where a Green politician, Winfried Kretschmann, has been in charge since 2011.But the Greens’ main competitor is not the Christian Democrats nor the Social Democrats, but the Free Democrats — known, informally, as the Liberals. Both the Greens and the Liberals agree on many of the cultural issues that divided the old left and right, like abortion and gay rights. But they divide over contemporary flash points like technology (the Liberals embrace its growing role in society; the Greens are skeptical), immigration (the Liberals support a Canadian-style, rules-based system; the Greens are for much more open borders) and economics (in this regard, they mimic their predecessors). This, then, is the new center of gravity in mainstream German politics.The Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats still exist, of course. But they have become obsolete by convergence. They are ruling together for their third term. Their kinship is one result of the changing axis of values in politics — most German voters, across the political spectrum, now agree on the things that once divided them, and their leading parties.But they have very little new to say about the new difficulties confronting Germany — above all climate change. How should a country that has become a export powerhouse thanks in part to its fast cars position itself in a world being destroyed by the carbon-based economy? How should Germany, arguably the last industrial nation in Europe, regard its vast appetite for energy? The Greens, needless to say, want to more ecologically minded national policies, regardless of the economic costs. But the Liberals, being pro-business and pro-growth, reject the Greens’ demands as ideological, even unscientific, and in the end self-defeating. Like technology, the environment will only grow in its importance as a focus of policymaking and debate — a fact that only the Greens and Liberals, for now, seem to grasp.Germany is not alone in this political realignment. Across the West, the baby boomers, who followed their predecessors in organizing around the old left-right axis, are fading, as are their political values. The new divides are open society versus closed society, empathy versus resentment, multilateralism versus isolation, parochialism versus cosmopolitanism. The Greens and Liberals are competing for votes among the anywheres, while the much-diminished Christian Democrats, and to their right the populist-nationalist Alternative for Germany party, will chase after the somewheres.It will be tempting for the Greens and Liberals to join forces, especially as they grow to the point where their combined support constitutes a majority. But that would be bad. One of the reasons given for the rise of the far right in Germany is the coziness between the two leading parties of the 20th century. The two leading parties of the 21st century must not make the same mistake.Alexander Görlach is a senior fellow at the Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of a British author. He is David Goodhart, not Goodheart.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonALGONA, Iowa — For nearly two decades, Representative Steve King pummeled Republican primary challengers, dispatched Democrats, even a former Iowa governor’s wife, and glided to victory in his conservative district. He spent little energy on fund-raising, put few controls on his racist language and made little effort to hold town halls with constituents.Then in November he was re-elected by just 10,000 votes in what he called “the nastiest, most dishonest political gauntlet that any Iowan has been put through”; two months later he was stripped of his committee assignments and rebuked by the House for comments that seemed to endorse white supremacy. Now the nine-term Iowa Republican is under attack from both the left and the right.Far from folding, though, Mr. King is returning to basics, reasserting an aggressive presence in his northwestern Iowa district, scheduling events in every county and holding as many as three town halls in a week, where constituents pack in, then linger to take photos and shake hands.“This is a really important part of our civic activity,” Mr. King told constituents crowded into a room in a library here in Algona, a northern town of about 5,000. “We have always done so, we just haven’t always told you that.”The winds have shifted, even Republicans concede.“Things are different than they’ve been before,” said Craig Robinson, a former political director of the Republican Party of Iowa. “Steve King can only be so good for so long. A lot of eyes were opened when they saw just how close he came to losing that seat in the last election cycle.”Hoping to win over prominent conservatives tired of putting out Mr. King’s fires, three Republicans — widely considered the most serious challengers Mr. King has faced in years — have already pledged to run in the 2020 primary race, including an assistant majority leader of the Iowa State Senate, Randy Feenstra, who represents one of the most conservative swaths of the district.The campaign arm of the House Democrats has also put a target on his back, and the state Democratic Party has deployed an organizer to set up a ground game for next year, the earliest Democrats have ever begun such efforts in a district that backed President Trump by nearly 30 percentage points.“We see him being held accountable. We really put a spotlight on something that was overlooked for a very long time,” said J. D. Scholten, the Democrat who lost to Mr. King in November. “You’re seeing his reaction to things where he hasn’t been held in check for years.”Regardless of scrutiny, Steve King will be Steve King. Last week, he declined to answer a question at a town hall here asking whether a “white society is superior to a nonwhite society” because the query was “so hypothetical.” At another town hall last week, he complained that Hurricane Katrina victims, who were mostly black, asked for help for only themselves, not their neighbors, while “Iowans take care of each other.”The Cedar Rapids Gazette issued a scathing editorial accusing Mr. King of choosing to “embarrass Iowans with inflammatory rhetoric.”For many western Iowans, that’s part of his appeal.“He’s a straight talker,” said Art Cullen, the Pulitzer Prize-winning editor of Mr. King’s hometown newspaper, The Storm Lake Times. “He ain’t afraid of the man. He ain’t afraid of the system. That’s powerful.”The system is clearly against him. House Republican leaders removed Mr. King from his committee assignments in January, after comments he made to The New York Times questioning why “white supremacist” was considered offensive. A number of powerful party leaders, including Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, and Representative Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the No. 3 House Republican, suggested he should resign, and the House overwhelmingly passed a resolution disapproving of Mr. King’s statements.Even before then, in October, the head of the House Republican campaign arm at the time, Representative Steve Stivers of Ohio, all but jettisoned Mr. King just a week before his election, declaring, “We must stand up against white supremacy and hate in all forms.”Mr. King has long made remarks denigrating immigrants, and they were long overlooked. Republican presidential candidates genuflected toward him as a kingmaker before the critical Iowa caucuses. Republican House leaders ducked and dodged rather than answer for Mr. King as he enmeshed himself in one scandal after another: retweeting a Nazi sympathizer, saying young unauthorized immigrants have “calves the size of cantaloupes because they’re hauling 75 pounds of marijuana across the desert,” displaying a Confederate flag and adopting white nationalist language such as “we can’t restore our civilization with somebody else’s babies.”But his close race in November signaled to members of his own party that voters’ patience may be wearing thin. Mr. Feenstra announced his primary challenge a day before Mr. King’s incendiary comments on white supremacy were published, then raised $100,000 in the next 10 days, according to The Des Moines Register.“Today, Iowa’s Fourth District doesn’t have a voice in Washington because our current representative’s caustic nature has left us without a seat at the table,” Mr. Feenstra said in January.Mr. King’s younger son and spokesman, Jeff King, was quick to fire back, telling The Register that Mr. Feenstra’s challenge amounted to “misguided political opportunism, fueled by establishment puppeteers” and “the lies of the left.”Republican strategists say the conservative tilt of Mr. King’s district and his entrenched presence will make for an uphill battle even for conservative challengers like Mr. Feenstra. But in a presidential year, when a wide-open Democratic field and antipathy toward Mr. Trump will energize liberals, Republicans should be worried.“There will be a lot of Republican activists who will defend him until the very end,” Mr. Robinson said. “But I think when we get closer to Primary Day, people’s opinion might change, because he barely held on last time, and I think it would be concerning, especially in a presidential year, that Republicans could lose this seat, which would be unfathomable.”Before 2018, the last scare Mr. King faced was in 2012, when Democrats pumped resources behind their challenger, the former Iowa first lady Christie Vilsack. She mustered less than 45 percent of the vote.This time Democrats face something of a conundrum.Mr. Scholten, a 39-year-old former minor league baseball player, must decide whether to run again for the House or shoot higher. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, flew him to Washington to discuss challenging Senator Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, according to Democrats familiar with the meeting.“The dilemma I’m having right now is that Democrats won the House, and so in order for us to pass some of these things, we need to have at least one senator from the state of Iowa be a Democrat,” Mr. Scholten said. “It’s difficult because King is the most vulnerable he has ever been, but do we advance the things that I’m fighting for if I go back to the House seat?”The decision may not be all Mr. Scholten’s to make. Mr. Schumer and his staff have also made overtures to State Senator Liz Mathis and freshman Representative Cindy Axne — and it is also unclear whether another breakout Democratic candidate exists in the Fourth Congressional District.Mr. King’s supporters say he has been unfairly treated by the national news media, and they praise him as a steadfast ally of agriculture and an anti-abortion crusader. Confronted with the question about white societies at the town hall meeting, Mr. King demurred. But his rambling anger ended with a proclamation of his belief that life begins at conception — and left his questioner agreeing with him.“Ask anyone who talked to him: Didn’t you think he was kind of like your crazy uncle?” Mr. Cullen said. “Didn’t you kind of like the guy when he was talking about white supremacy?”Many will answer yes.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Hannah Beech and Muktita SuhartonoBANGKOK — A pro-military party in Thailand on Monday celebrated its lead in the vote count in this weekend’s elections, hinting that the army’s grip since seizing power in a 2014 coup would likely endure.The early result, which may not be finalized for days, signaled how Thailand, one of the most stable American allies in Southeast Asia, allows the military to dominate governance, even as other countries in the region have kept soldiers away from politics.The Sunday vote also showed how the Thai military, which has orchestrated a dozen coups over the past nine decades, is using a fresh tactic: elections to entrench its power.While voting may nurture democracy elsewhere, Thailand’s political system is strangled by complicated rules designed to perpetuate the military’s authority. Neither the popular vote nor the number of contested seats in this parliamentary election will have much of a democratizing effect.A full unofficial count of the vote was not expected until late this week. The official results might not be released until early May.A partial count showed that a populist party, Pheu Thai, which lagged in the popular vote, had nonetheless so far collected the largest number of parliamentary seats — 137 in the 500-seat Lower House. The party represents the interests of Thaksin Shinawatra, a polarizing former prime minister as beloved by the rural poor as he is disdained by the establishment elite.Still, forces loyal to Prayuth Chan-ocha, the leader of the junta that orchestrated the 2014 coup, said he appeared poised to continue as prime minister. The pro-military party that nominated him, Palang Pracharat, had so far collected just 97 seats in the Lower House but had more of the popular vote than its populist rival.Because the country’s military-drafted Constitution ensures that the 250-member Senate is entirely appointed by the military, Mr. Prayuth may be able to count on enough votes from both sides of Parliament to keep the top job.In an unusual twist in a parliamentary democracy, a candidate for prime minister in Thailand need not be an elected member of Parliament.Purawich Watanasukh, a research fellow at King Prajadhipok’s Institute in Thailand, said he was “quite surprised” with the military party’s strong performance in the popular vote. Mr. Purawich was among many analysts who had predicted that Mr. Prayuth’s perceived lack of popularity might hurt him.Regardless, support for the junta was stacked even before voting began. And the vote was filled with reports of irregularities and concerns about repeated delays in announcing the results.Uttama Savanayana, Palang Pracharat’s party leader, said in a news conference on Monday afternoon that “we have stated from the beginning that any party that gets the most votes is able to form a government.”Kobsak Pootrakool, a spokesman for Palang Pracharat, said that “the votes from the people are the voice from heaven,” before acknowledging that the work of coalition-making still loomed.On Friday, Mr. Prayuth, a former army chief with an ambivalent attitude toward democracy, spoke of his commitment to his homeland.“I love Thailand, and I would die for this country,” he said at a political rally.On Monday afternoon, the Election Commission, which was appointed by the junta, delayed for the third time releasing its unofficial count for unexplained reasons. Such postponements had never occurred, Thai election experts said.The commission then said winners of 350 seats would be announced first, but results for the remaining 150 seats would take at least four more days.With reports of irregularities increasing, the delays made election monitors nervous.“My understanding is that the Election Commission has an obligation to continue counting the ballots through the night, so this is potentially problematic or illegal,” said Pandit Chanrochanakit, the deputy dean of the political science department at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok.Before the elections, diplomats in Bangkok warned that any delay in announcing the results might raise concerns, especially since relatively few independent election observers had been deployed.Mr. Pandit said hundreds of students organized by a scholars’ alliance that had spread across the country to observe had found “some problems that make this election not free or fair.”The number of invalidated ballots was nearly 6 percent, the commission said, and 1.5 percent of ballots recorded no vote at all.Sudarat Keyuraphan, Pheu Thai’s candidate for prime minister, urged normal politics to prevail.“No matter the outcome, whichever party obtains the majority vote should get to form a coalition government first,” she said. “We don’t want to fight with anyone for power.”In May, when the official election results might be released, the country will be marking the coronation of King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun.In a constitutional monarchy with some of the world’s harshest royal defamation laws, any political instability before then could be viewed as detrimental to national unity.Anti-junta forces are composed of both working-class people loyal to Mr. Thaksin’s populist party and an urban elite weary of polarized politics.“I have my own voice now, and I want a new voice to fix the country and bring the country into a better direction with a better economy,” said Panita Dispueng, a university student and first-time voter.Future Forward, a new party founded by Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, an heir to an auto parts fortune, won a surprising number of seats in the partial count of Sunday’s elections, a remarkable feat for a party that didn’t exist a year ago.Mr. Thanathorn, one of the junta’s staunchest critics, has called for the nation’s military budget to be slashed.Much remains unknown about how politics will unfold in the coming months, especially since the military-drafted Constitution has introduced byzantine regulations.In the meantime, some of the pro-democracy parties are facing potential existential crises. Pheu Thai could be dissolved if outstanding complaints against the party move forward.Mr. Thaksin, the spiritual godfather of the Pheu Thai party, is in overseas exile after corruption-linked convictions, as is his sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, another former prime minister.Other parties, including Future Forward, have criminal cases against their executives hanging over them. Mr. Thanathorn, of Future Forward, could find out as early as Tuesday whether he will face jail time for a computer crimes charge that stemmed from a Facebook Live video he gave last year.Human rights groups say the charge, which his deputy also faces, is politically motivated.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen CastleLONDON — For months, analysts have wondered when the grinding pressures of Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union would stretch political divisions and loyalties to the breaking point, possibly leading to a realignment of British politics.That point may have come closer this week.On Wednesday, three lawmakers quit Prime Minister Theresa May’s Conservative Party, joining eight rebels from the opposition Labour Party in a bold attempt to smash Britain’s entrenched two-party system for the first time in a generation.It will not be easy. The group of 11 newly independent lawmakers have no policy platform, political organization or leader, and they will operate in an electoral system that makes it almost impossible for new parties to break through.Still, analysts believe that conditions are ripe for a shift, amid public disenchantment at the handling of Brexit, fierce internal party rifts, and a perception that both main parties are pandering to their extremes.“We have a very divided Conservative Party, an extremely divided Labour Party and a new pole of attraction that did not exist until Monday,” said Steven Fielding, professor of political history at the University of Nottingham, referring to the day when the initial seven Labour lawmakers quit their party.“Politics is possibly as fluid as it has been since the 1920s,” he added. During those years, the Labour Party and the Liberal Party were vying to become the main opponent to the Conservatives.Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, has shifted his party leftward, while hard-liners have pulled Mrs. May’s Conservatives to the right over Brexit, leaving a gaping hole in the center and rendering many Britons politically homeless.Adding to the sense of flux is the fact that significant numbers of Britons are starting to define themselves politically more in relation to their views on Brexit than to an affiliation with a political party.Brexit certainly featured prominently in Wednesday’s defections. In a statement, the three lawmakers who left the Conservative Party, Anna Soubry, Heidi Allen and Sarah Wollaston, said they could no longer tolerate membership because of the influence of the party’s hard-liners.“Brexit has redefined the Conservative Party — undoing all the efforts to modernize it,” the three lawmakers said. They added that there had been “a dismal failure” to stand up to the European Research Group, a faction of more than 50 strongly pro-Brexit Conservative lawmakers, which they accused of operating as a party within a party.All three rebel lawmakers were part of the more pro-European wing of the Conservative Party and favor holding a second referendum on Brexit.The announcement came before Mrs. May left for Brussels for talks over her Brexit plan, which was rejected overwhelmingly by Parliament last month.Mrs. May discussed her demands in Brussels over dinner with Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission. Afterward, she said there had been progress.“I’ve underlined the need for us to see legally binding changes to the backstop that ensure that it cannot be indefinite,” she said, referring to a mechanism to avoid building a physical boundary between Ireland and Northern Ireland that some Conservatives fear would leave Britain bound to the European Union. “We’ve agreed that work to find a solution will continue at pace.”She said that “time is of the essence, and it’s in both our interests that when the U.K. leaves the E.U., that it does so in an orderly way. So we’ve made progress.”But progress, if made, was unclear. In a joint statement, Mrs. May and Mr. Juncker said that their meeting had been “constructive,” that negotiators would continue their talks, and that they would meet again before the end of the month.The European Union has said that there can be no renegotiation of the withdrawal agreement and no time limit to the Irish backstop. But the Europeans have said that an accompanying political declaration can be altered and side letters written to reassure the British Parliament that the backstop, if ever put to use, is intended to be temporary.With less than 40 days to go before the Brexit deadline, Britain faces the possibility of a disorderly or even chaotic departure if Mrs. May cannot secure changes that will help her reverse the defeat in Parliament.In their resignation letter, the three lawmakers said that the final straw for them was the government’s “disastrous” handling of Brexit, and its willingness to contemplate departing the European Union without a deal. “We find it unconscionable that a party, once trusted on the economy, more than any other, is now recklessly marching the country to the cliff edge of no deal,” they wrote.On Monday, the newly resigned Labour lawmakers castigated Mr. Corbyn, accusing him of equivocating over Brexit and tolerating anti-Semitism within the party. An eighth Labour lawmaker, Joan Ryan, later joined them, saying that Mr. Corbyn had allowed his party to become “infected with the scourge of anti-Jewish racism.”A lifelong critic of the European Union, Mr. Corbyn has resisted pressure to support a second referendum on Brexit, to the fury of many of his lawmakers and activists.The new group of 11 independent lawmakers have the same number as the centrist Liberal Democrats. Their next objective will be to try to lure more colleagues, overtake the Scottish National Party, with its 35 seats, and become the third-biggest force in the House of Commons, giving them a higher profile at events in the chamber, like Prime Minister’s Questions.At a news conference, the three former Conservative lawmakers predicted more defections, saying many lawmakers are known to sympathize with the rebels. However, some might be inclined to wait to see what happens during the next few weeks, as both Mrs. May and Mr. Corbyn face big decisions over Brexit.Mrs. May relies on 10 lawmakers from the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland to prop up her government, though they, along with more than 100 Conservative lawmakers, refused to support her Brexit plan in Parliament last month.Until Wednesday, Mrs. May could count on a working majority of around 13, so the defection of Conservative lawmakers is unwelcome, though not devastating, news for Downing Street. If enough lawmakers defect to the new independent group, it could theoretically join Labour in a no-confidence measure that would bring down the government.However, the independents are unlikely to take that route because, lacking the structures and support of an organized political party, they would be likely to lose their seats.While those who abandon their parties face clear risks, some independent-minded lawmakers, under acute pressure from hard-line activists in their constituencies, plainly feel they have no option but to jump before being pushed.On the Labour side, Momentum, an organization that supports Mr. Corbyn, has made life hard for his internal critics. On Wednesday, its national coordinator, Laura Parker, criticized those who had left the Labour Party, claiming they were supporters of Tony Blair, the former prime minister who is widely despised by his party’s activists.“It’s clear that the new party is a Blairite-Tory coalition aimed at resurrecting a dead agenda of privatization, deregulation and tax cuts for the super rich,” Ms. Parker said in a statement.On Wednesday, the three former Conservative lawmakers said that the Tories were as vulnerable as Labour to infiltration, in their case by supporters of the right-wing U.K. Independence Party, known as UKIP. That left many centrist lawmakers afraid of being deselected, or forced out, by their local parties, they said.“It’s very clear to me that our associations are changing,” Ms. Wollaston said. “We have people who are very clearly UKIP and they are turning the Conservative Party to Blukip,” she added, a reference to the party’s traditional color of blue.Steven Erlanger contributed reporting from Brussels.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]Senator Sherrod Brown, a rumpled liberal populist, is out of the 2020 presidential race. And Joe Biden, the great hope of moderates, is (almost) in.Newly elected purple-district Democrats in Congress are pledging to voters back home that they’ll “stay in the center.” Ed Rendell, a former Pennsylvania governor and national Democratic chairman, is warning the party that talking about things like single-payer health care and the Green New Deal “plays into the Trump campaign’s hands.”And former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado opened his presidential campaign this week by questioning whether “Medicare for all” was “really the right thing.”Welcome to the revenge of the moderates.Since President Trump’s election, an activist liberal wing has taken hold of the Democratic Party. They’ve pushed bold economic, health care and environmental proposals. Some have embraced the term “socialist,” giving fresh fodder to Republican critics, and denounced the richest Americans and biggest corporations. And they’ve dominated the national conversation, from Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in Congress to Senator Bernie Sanders on the campaign trail.But now, as the 2020 primary field comes into sharper focus, we’re starting to see a resurgence of more moderate, market-oriented Democrats, as they try to re-exert their power in a party they fear is courting political defeat by veering too far left.Mr. Biden, a politician defined by the era of centrist Democratic politics, has his campaign plan nearly in place and seems to be moving toward entering the race in the coming weeks. Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado and other congressional moderates, like Representatives Seth Moulton of Massachusetts and Tim Ryan of Ohio, are making noise about launching their own presidential bids.Those men, along with several other white male moderates who may enter the race, hope to provide a counterweight to the proposals of the Sanders-Warren wing of the party.Of course, in one really big way, the liberals have already won by shifting the debate distinctly leftward. The conversation in the Democratic Party is around their ideas: a massive plan to fight climate change, a complete overhaul of the health care system, new taxes on the ultrarich.Many in the party have embraced these ideas, in part as a reaction to the intractably partisan environment in Washington. Bipartisan, moderate politics feel inadequate for the political moment, liberals argue. And if you can’t cut deals with market-oriented Republicans anyhow, the thinking goes, why not go big and bold?The economist Brad DeLong, a neoliberal who served as deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury for economic policy in the Clinton administration, has said that centrists like himself should “pass the baton to our colleagues on our left.”Whether Democratic voters agree will be one of the defining questions of the primary.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________Have you heard The Daily?Our morning news podcast, The Daily, is a great way to hear the story behind the biggest stories at The New York Times. If you haven’t listened before — or if you’re a lapsed fan — you might want to try today’s episode: Coral Davenport, who covers energy and the environment for The Times, dives into the details and the politics of the Green New Deal.Listen to the episode here.____________________We’ve written before about the brand of zero-tolerance racial and gender politics Democrats have embraced in the Trump era. What’s happening on Capitol Hill this week with Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota offers perhaps the most high-profile test yet of that policy — and how it interacts with the Democrats’ new power in Washington.For those who haven’t been following the issue, here’s a quick catch-up. Last week, Ms. Omar suggested that pro-Israel activists were pushing “for allegiance to a foreign country” — a comment that leading Jewish lawmakers said played into the anti-Semitic trope of “dual loyalty.” They pressured Speaker Nancy Pelosi to introduce a resolution condemning anti-Semitism.That infuriated a group of younger liberal and minority members, who saw the resolution as unfairly targeting a lawmaker who is not only one of the first Muslim-American women in Congress but also a refugee.The conflict boiled over in a closed-door meeting of House Democrats on Wednesday. What about condemning Islamophobia, demanded the liberal members? What about racism? Homophobia?Senators Elizabeth Warren, Bernie Sanders and Kamala Harris defended Ms. Omar from the campaign trail. Representative Ayanna Pressley, a freshman Democrat from Massachusetts, said: “We need to denounce all forms of hate. There is no hierarchy of hurt.”The messy dispute has dominated Congress for the past week, overshadowing a signature Democratic bill, H.R. 1, designed to send a message about overhauling ethics, lobbying and voting laws. It has also been a boon for Republicans, who have already begun using Ms. Omar as both a symbol of Democratic hypocrisy and a way to give cover for the race-baiting, misogynistic remarks of President Trump.In an effort to end the uproar, the House today approved a resolution on the oh-so-bold position of condemning all hate. One Democratic lawmaker told me this week that they just wanted to take the vote and move on as quickly as possible.It’s not likely to be that easy: Issues of race, gender and immigration dominate our national conversation. Hard to imagine Democrats escaping them — or the passions they provoke.Now we want to hear from you.What do you think about Ms. Omar’s statements and the Democrats’ response? Send us your thoughts at onpolitics@nytimes.com. Include your name and state, and we may feature your comment in the newsletter next week.____________________• In this week’s Crossing the Border newsletter, an entrepreneur hopes to bring Americans and Mexicans together for good food, drinks and conversation.• From the Magazine, The Top 25 Songs That Matter Right Now: A survey of the state of pop music, looking at the tracks and artists that best capture this moment. (And yes, there’s a Spotify playlist.)• Caitlin Flanagan at The Atlantic with an insightful take on the roots and reasons behind Senator Amy Klobuchar’s rage — and whether it’s a feminist issue.____________________The Wall Street Journal details the second act of “Pharma Bro” Martin Shkreli, otherwise known as inmate 87850-053.“He has made prison friends, including ‘Krispy’ and ‘D-Block,’ some of whom affectionately call him ‘A––hole,’ according to people familiar with his new life. They walk alongside him in the hall to ward off shenanigans from other inmates. For reputational reasons they persuaded him to turn down a gig playing guitar in a prison band because the other members were locked up for child molestation.”_____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]Forget about the race for president — some 2020 Democratic candidates are already picking their running mates.Cory Booker and Beto O’Rourke, asked if they’d pick a woman, were quick to vow that they would. Joseph R. Biden Jr., before he has even entered the race, is scoping out Stacey Abrams (who’s considering her own presidential bid), as well as Kamala Harris and Beto O’Rourke (who are currently running for president).All that chatter prompted former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado to wonder at a CNN town hall Wednesday night why the female candidates aren’t being asked if they’d pick a man as their vice president.Well, thanks for asking, governor! We actually posed that very question to Elizabeth Warren on Sunday night, after an event in Memphis, Tenn. Here’s what she had to say:“I want somebody who’s going to get out there and fight on behalf of working people. That’s what matters most.”That response, though extremely on message, is very different from the ones offered by some of her male opponents.“No matter what — I’m looking you in the eye and saying this — there will be a woman on the ticket,” said. Mr. Booker. “I don’t know if it’s in the vice president’s position or the president’s position, but if I have my way, there will be a woman on the ticket.”There’s definitely something bizarre about so many candidates publicly mulling their vice-presidential picks, given that we’re still nearly a year away from the first votes being cast. Typically, this kind of discussion happens behind closed doors, and not for another year or so.But this strange little side narrative tells us two notable things about the primary race:1. Women have power. The question is how much.In 2018, women powered Democratic gains — as candidates, volunteers and voters — and it seems like the party is going into this contest with a sense that they could do the same next spring. The running mate remarks show that the campaigns believe they need a woman on a ticket; the men are just hoping that it doesn’t have to be at the top.Now, does that mean you should bet on a female candidate becoming the nominee? Uh, definitely not. The double standard that female candidates face is real and still hard to overcome, particularly in a presidential contest.2. Everyone is a pundit.The Democratic obsession with beating President Trump has turned everyone into a talking head. When asked, it’s not surprising for average voters to deliver their own detailed assessment of which candidate has the best chance of winning over the Midwest, liberals or black voters.There’s a ton of strategic thinking going on in the minds of the Democratic primary electorate. This kind of vice-presidential chatter seems squarely aimed at a party of punditocracy.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________At a CNN town hall this week, Elizabeth Warren’s biggest line wasn’t about Medicare for all, the Green New Deal or taxing the ultrarich. It was about the Electoral College.“My view is that every vote matters,” she said. “And the way we can make that happen is that we can have national voting, and that means get rid of the Electoral College.”The system the country has used to pick presidents since 1789 is decidedly out of fashion with Democrats.Beto O’Rourke said on Tuesday that “there’s a lot of wisdom” in scrapping it. Kamala Harris is “open” to the idea. Pete Buttigieg says it’s “got to go.” And polling shows three-quarters of Democratic voters support a national popular vote.But abolishing it would require amending the Constitution, which is, by design, an arduous process that only lets through the most bipartisan of ideas.Enter the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact.It’s an agreement between states to award their electoral votes to whichever candidate wins the popular vote. The pact would only take effect if the states involved were worth at least 270 electoral votes, the number it takes to win the Electoral College. (Of course, you can bet that if the proposal actually hit 270 there would be plenty of lawsuits challenging it.)This week, Colorado became the 12th state to sign on to the agreement, bringing the total to 181 electoral votes.It’s clear why Democrats would want to change the system. They have won the popular vote in six of the last seven elections, but lost two of those — George W. Bush in 2000 and President Trump in 2016 — because of the Electoral College.And the party fears those kinds of losses could become more frequent in coming elections, because of a demographic shift that has emerged as a serious threat for them: Democrats simply have more voters in fewer states.But the issue hasn’t always belonged to the left. Both parties have embraced the idea that the system, as Mr. Trump famously put it, is “rigged.” The president, it’s worth noting, has railed against the Electoral College since 2012.“I would rather have the popular vote, but for me it’s much easier to win the popular vote,” he said on “Fox and Friends” last April. “It’s what the Democrats use to make an excuse for their loss of an election.”His views changed some after the Democratic push this week.Perhaps “rigged” is the eye of the loser?What do you think of the plan to abolish the Electoral College? Send your thoughts to onpolitics@nytimes.com, including your name and state, and we may include it in next week’s newsletter.____________________• The prime minister of New Zealand announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, after a gunman killed 50 people at two mosques there last week. The ban is expected to encounter little resistance, and the largest opposition party quickly said it supported the measures.• The American Museum of Natural History is correcting history in plain view.• The Washington Post goes deep into the politics of the modern — and very traditional — marriage of Beto and Amy O’Rourke.____________________Mueller Watch continues!Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byObama was a lightning rod. Trump is a lightning strike.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.In 1992, before Bill Clinton became “our first black president,” before Newt Gingrich’s “Republican revolution,” before the advent of Barack Obama, I wrote a book about how race had come to dominate American politics.I argued that the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964set in motion a realignment of the two parties. As whites began to feel the costs of the civil rights revolution — affirmative action, busing, urban violence — Republicans recognized the potential of race to catalytically interact with the broader rights revolution and the anti-tax movement to drive working and middle class voters out of the Democratic Party.I also wrote about the political power of racial resentment:Race gave new strength to themes that in the past had been secondary — themes always present in American politics, but which previously lacked, in themselves, mobilizing power. Race was central, Richard Nixon and key Republican strategists began to recognize, to the fundamental conservative strategy of establishing a new, noneconomic polarization of the electorate, a polarization isolating a liberal, activist, culturally permissive, rights-oriented and pro-black Democratic Party against those unwilling to pay the financial and social costs of this reconfigured social order.The situation hasn’t changed much.Heading into the 2020 election, President Trump is prepared for the second time in a row to run a racist campaign. He continues, for example, to denigrate, in virulent terms, immigrants from Mexico and Central America.At the same time, Democrats are doubling down on a racially liberal political agenda, becoming more outspoken and more confrontational in their defense of diversity and multiculturalism. Two of the party’s top-tier candidates for president — Senator Cory Booker and Senator Kamala Harris — are African-American, one — Julián Castro — is Latino, and all of the current Democratic contenders unabashedly promote the rights of racial and ethnic minorities. The continuing Democratic quandary is how to maximize essential minority turnout, and at the same time retain — or recruit — sufficient numbers of white working class voters to secure victory on Election Day.My Times colleagues Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns reported on Feb. 25 that Democratic operatives are debating whether the party should spend “time, money and psychic energy tailoring their message to a heavily white, rural and blue-collar part of the country” or focus instead on areas where “their coalition is increasingly made up of racial minorities and suburbanites.”The dispute, according to Martin and Burns,is not merely a tactical one — it goes to the heart of how Democrats envision themselves becoming a majority party. The question is whether that is accomplished through a focus on kitchen-table topics like health care and jobs, aimed at winning moderates and disaffected Trump voters, or by unapologetically elevating matters of race and identity, such as immigration, to mobilize young people and minorities with new fervor.Poll data suggests that Trump is driving Democratic liberals further left and conservative Republicans further right on a key test of racial attitudes.Michael Tesler, a political scientist at the University of California-Irvine and the author of the 2016 book “Post Racial or Most Racial,” writes in “Racial Attitudes and American Politics,” a chapter in a forthcoming book:Democratic and Republican voters do not simply disagree about what the government should do on racially charged issues like immigration and affirmative action, they now inhabit increasingly separate realities about race in America.The growing alignment between racial attitudes and public opinion, Tesler continues, “has polarized the electorate and helped make American politics increasingly vitriolic.”Racial attitudes have, in turn, become indelibly linked to partisan identification and “party identification influences just about everything in contemporary American society,” Tesler writes:Partisanship is not only the most important determinant of our vote choices and policy preferences, but it shapes countless other beliefs and behaviors. Party identification has even been linked to who we find attractive and who we decide to marry, how we perceive objective conditions like the unemployment rate and federal budget deficit, which neighborhoods we want to live in, and the type of TV shows and cars we like.Because of this, Tesler argues, “the racialization of party identification is by itself the racialization of American politics and society.”Ryan Enos, a Harvard political scientist notes thatThe pull of racial attitudes seems to be moving both directions — so that racial conservatives are being drawn into the GOP and racial liberals are being drawn into the Democratic Party.Political ideology, Enos continued in an email,is a broad orientation that is influenced by basic psychological traits and these traits orient a person toward a particular worldview that can be ideologically conservative or liberal and also causes one to be more or less ethnocentric.The growing linkage between ideological and ethnocentric views has, in turn, contributed to a striking development in congressional elections.Stephen M. Utych, a political scientist at Boise State University, conducted a detailed analysis — “Man Bites Blue Dog: Are Moderates Really More Electable than Ideologues?” — of winners and losers in House races from 1980 to 2012.Utych found that a core premise of both political operatives and political scientists — that “moderate candidates should be more electable in a general election than ideologically extreme candidates” — is no longer true.In fact, in 2012, ideologically extreme candidates became more electable than moderates, as the accompanying graphic shows.Moderate candidates for U.S. House seats used to have a big edge over those who were much more ideological (either toward the left or the right). In 2012, the ideologues were more successful, and moderates’ odds of winning fell to about 50-50.CANDIDATESWONModerate candidatesEVENCHANCE OFWINNINGStrongly ideological candidatesModerateslost their edgein 2012 (the latestdata available)CANDIDATESLOST’80’84’88’92’96’00’04’08’12CANDIDATES WONModerate candidatesEVEN CHANCE OF WINNINGModerateslost their edgein 2012 (the latestdata available)Strongly ideological candidatesCANDIDATES LOST’80’84’88’92’96’00’04’08’12By The New York Times | Source: analysis of Database on Ideology, Money in Politics and Elections (Adam Bonica, Stanford University) by Stephen Utych, Boise State UniversityIn 1980, at the start of the period Utych studied,moderates were quite likely to win — very extreme candidates were less than 20 percent likely to win election in 1980, while ideologically moderate candidates were nearly 80 percent likely to win.By 2008, however, Ultych observes,ideologically extreme candidates and moderates became indistinguishable in their likelihood of winning an election, with predicted probabilities of winning hovering around 50 percent for both.In an email, Utych pointed out that racial views are extremely significant in the trends he describes:The importance of racial attitudes, and how intertwined with politics they’ve become, can go a long way to explaining polarization.Tesler and many other academics use a set of polling questions to determine the intensity of what they call “racial resentment.” Whites who score high in racial resentment have consistently voted in higher percentages for Republican presidential candidates.“From 1988 to 2012 average white resentment scores were very stable, but in 2016 something quite notable happened,” Tesler explained by email. Referring to data from American National Election Studies, Tesler pointed out that White resentment was significantly lower in 2016 than had ever been recorded in the ANES. It’s not just the ANES or resentment, either. Across several surveys and attitudes, the country has grown significantly more liberal on several questions related to race, immigration, Islam and gender since Trump’s campaign.The shift to the left was not, however, across the board. It was driven by one group: Democrats and voters who lean toward the Democratic Party.“This growing tolerance is largely confined to Democrats and Democratic leaning Independents,” Tesler wrote, adding thatDemocrats have grown more tolerant as a backlash against Trumpism. It also means that while the country is growing more tolerant, they’re also more polarized over race and ethnicity.The accompanying graphic, based on data provided by Tesler, demonstrates the growing partisan division over race, in this case showing levels of agreement with the statement “racial discrimination is the main reason why many black people can’t get ahead these days.”From 2008 through 2016, very few Republicans agree, and their disagreement remains constant. Democratic agreement, in contrast, shot up, from just over a quarter to well over half.A Pew survey found that a majority of Democrats, after the election of President Trump, agreed with this statement: “Racial discrimination is the main reason why many black people can’t get ahead these days.” Republican views scarcely budged.75% AGREE66%Trump announcescandidacy in June 20154450%Democrats2825%Republicans1112%8Nov.2009Mar.’11Jan.’12Mar.’14Aug.’15Feb.’17July’1775% AGREE66%Trump announces candidacyin June 20154450%Democrats2825%Republicans1112%8Nov.2009Mar.’11Jan.’12Mar.’14Aug.’15Feb.’17July’17By The New York Times | Sources: Pew Research Center; “Identity Crisis: The 2016 Presidential Campaign and the Battle for the Meaning of America Hardcover,” by John Sides, Michael Tesler and Lynn VavreckTesler argues that racially resentful voters turned against Obama in higher percentages than in past elections when the Democratic nominee was white, but Obama made up for his losses with higher turnout and stronger margins of victory among blacks and white liberals. Tesler calls this phenomenon “two sides of racialization”:Obama performed particularly poorly among racially resentful whites, but garnered more votes from African Americans and white racial liberals than a similarly situated white Democratic candidate.Instead of costing him votes, Tesler continued, thelarge effects of racial attitudes in Obama’s election, therefore, did not so much hurt him electorally as they polarized voter preferences based on their feelings about African-Americans.In 2016, even though both presidential candidates were white, race played an even larger role than it did in the two Obama elections.That year, Tesler wrote,the American public saw a much wider gulf between Clinton and Trump’s positions on issues like immigration and federal aid to African Americans than they had perceived between prior Democratic and Republican presidential candidates.That, in turn, set the stage forattitudes about race and ethnicity to matter more in 2016 than they had in modern times. Across several different racial attitude measures in a number of different surveys, views about race and ethnicity were more strongly related to vote choice in 2016 than they were in Obama’s elections.On Feb. 19, Gallup reported that the liberal faction of the Democratic Party is growing:Increased liberal identification has been particularly pronounced among non-Hispanic white Democrats, rising 20 percentage points from an average 34 percent in the early 2000s to 54 percent in the latest period. By contrast, Gallup trends show a nine-point rise in the percent liberal among Hispanic Democrats, from 29 percent to 38 percent, and an eight-point increase among black Democrats, from 25 percent to 33 percent.Lydia Saad, a senior editor at Gallup, provided additional survey data showing a marked leftward trend among white Democrats during and after the election of President Trump. The percentage of white Democrats who describe themselves as “socially liberal” grew from 39 percent in 2001 to 2006 to 50 percent in 2007 to 2012 and to 63 percent in 2013 to 2018, according to Gallup. This 24-point increase outpaced black Democrats, who went from 33 to 41 percent, and Hispanic Democrats who went from 28 to 36 percent. (Of course, the percentage of white voters who identify as Democrats is much lower than it is for African-America or Hispanic voters.)The Gallup data showed similar leftward shifts among white Democrats on taxing the rich, abortion, gay rights and a wide range of other issues.Not only has the Trump presidency pushed Democrats in a progressive direction, Trump himself has played a crucial role in maintaining Democratic unity, according to Gallup:The Democrats’ grand unifier stands outside the party. Despite differing ideologies and opposing views on some issues, on average last year, 82 percent of conservative Democrats, 91 percent of moderate Democrats and 96 percent of liberal Democrats disapproved of the job President Donald Trump was doing as president.As they prepare for the general election, Democrats battling for the nomination (and their strategists) will struggle to understand how and where their increasingly strong commitment to racial and cultural liberalism conflicts with the views of the general electorate.This week, for example, the Pew Research Center released a study showing that 73 percent of Americans oppose racial and ethnic affirmative action policies in college admissions. Pew reported that 7 percent of those surveyed said race should be a major factor, while 19 percent said it should be a minor factor.Similarly, Democratic strategists will be evaluating the issue of reparations, which three major candidates — Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Julián Castro — have endorsed so far, in various forms.In 2015, CNN and the Kaiser Family Foundation polled Americans’ view of reparations and found that while African Americans were in favor (52-42), Hispanics (at 57-37), and whites (89-8), were firmly against.In “The Distorting Effects of Racial Animus on Proximity Voting in the 2016 Elections,” Carlos Algara and Isaac Hale, political scientists at the University of California at Davis, show how powerful race has become in mobilizing support for Republicans: “Not only did Trump’s frequent invocations of race in the 2016 campaign prime voters with high levels of racial animus to evaluate the presidential contest in racial terms,” they write, but the increased salience of race in the 2016 campaign “percolated to relatively low-information congressional contests as well.”The result, Algara and Hale show, is that voters liberal on issues other than race defect “to Republican candidates up and down the ticket when they harbor racial animus.” Racial animosity, they write, hurts both black and white Democratic candidates: “Racial animus (at least when salient) harms Democratic candidates across the board.”I began this column with a pair of quotes from my 1992 book, “Chain Reaction.” Here is another pair:As the civil rights movement became national, as it became clearly associated with the Democratic Party, and as it began to impinge on local neighborhoods and schools, it served to crack the Democratic loyalties of key white voters. Crucial numbers of voters — in the white, urban and suburban neighborhoods of the North, and across the South — were, in addition, deeply angered and distressed by aspects of the rights revolution. It had been among the white working and lower-middle classes that many of the social changes stemming from the introduction of new rights — civil rights for minorities, reproductive and workplace rights for women, constitutional protections for the criminally accused, immigration opportunities for those from developing countries, free-speech rights to pornographers, and the surfacing of highly visible homosexual communities — have been most deeply resisted.And from the book’s conclusion:At stake is the American experiment itself, endangered by a rising tide of political cynicism and alienation, and basic uncertainties as to whether or not we are capable of transmitting a sense of inclusion and shared citizenship across an immense and diverse population — whether or not we can uphold our traditional commitment to the possibilities of justice and equality expressed in our founding documents and embedded in our most valued democratic institutions.The question stands out even more starkly now than it did 27 years ago, with a president we could not then have imagined, who is willing, even eager, to play with fire.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Rod NordlandMAZAR-I-SHARIF, Afghanistan — Conspicuously missing from the celebration of Persian New Year in the Afghan city of Mazar-i-Sharif on Thursday were two things the event is famous for: the profusion of tulips that turn the surrounding deserts red, and the commanding presence of the regional strongman, former Governor Atta Mohammed Noor.A hard winter has delayed the blooms, and a bitter and sometimes violent dispute with the central government has meant that Mr. Noor did not attend the main ceremony in Mazar for the first time in recent memory. He was replaced by President Ashraf Ghani, who presided over the ceremonial raising of the jahenda bala banner at the city’s magnificent Blue Mosque.The result of the dispute has been a decided taming of Mazar’s rollicking Nowruz celebrations, which greet the Persian New Year and the spring equinox with an outpouring of street parties, games, fireworks, music, dancing and picnicking that draws hundreds of thousands of people from every corner of Afghanistan.The event is so raucous that every year conservative mullahs inveigh against the occasion, with little effect. Even the Taliban gave up on trying to ban it while they were in power.What cast a pall over this year’s celebration was President Ghani’s decision last week to fire the local police chief, a protégé of Mr. Noor, and replace him with his own candidate. Mr. Noor’s armed supporters and the local police resisted, but Mr. Ghani sent in Special Forces troops to take over the police headquarters. A brief spasm of fighting killed one policeman and wounded 20 others, mostly civilians, and Mr. Ghani had his way.Afghan Army troops remain on the streets, blocking vehicles’ access to the Blue Mosque and searching everyone who enters. Mr. Noor has vowed to take action, saying that the police chief’s appointment violates an agreement with Mr. Ghani that Mr. Noor would be consulted on such moves.During Nowruz festivities, nearly every home is filled to bursting with guests from other parts of the country. Nasratullah Qarizada, a dress importer in Kabul, the capital, who is from Mazar, said he had many fewer guests this year — but there were still around 40 people.The fear of violence diminished, but did not stop, the party. The streets were filled with revelers, even as shopkeepers complained they were not as numerous as in past years. Small crowds gathered wherever an egg-fighting match took place: a game with obscure rules in which hard-boiled eggs are bashed against one another to see whose egg is toughest. Warplanes flew overhead, firing off chaff with embedded fairy lights.Nor did the lack of the usual stunning fields of flowers around the northern city, the region’s most famous springtime feature, stop the legions of picnickers from laying their carpets on the green fields and mountainsides, although they dressed warmly against the chill of a lingering winter.“We are sick of this war,” Nawaz Sharif Khan said, squatting on a carpet with six friends and relatives. A shopkeeper from Kabul, he had come to picnic, play soccer, go to concerts and enjoy being in a city with a reputation as the safest in the country. “On this day here we forget all our memories of war,” he said.Mazar-i-Sharif’s reputation as a haven is challenged by the embarrassing sight of troops in the streets, at a time when Afghanistan’s American allies are negotiating peace terms with the Taliban in talks that have so far sidelined the country’s fractious and deeply divided government.Mr. Noor’s public relations adviser, Taher Qadri, complained that the recent fighting with the government had spoiled this year’s Nowruz.“When Governor Noor, that is Mr. Noor, was in charge, we never had a single bullet fired,” he said. “This year there are thousands fewer people here, because of the tensions. Even all of my friends from Kabul, none of them came up.”Mr. Noor is often referred to as the king of Balkh, the province, an impression reinforced by a billboard on the road in from Mazar’s international airport showing Mr. Noor wearing a crown so big it could make Queen Elizabeth blush. (Mr. Qadri’s spin on that: It is actually a Turkmen hat, and the jewels were embroidered baubles.)A former warlord and stalwart of the fight against the Soviets in the 1980s, Mr. Noor parlayed his position as governor into fabulous wealth from what diplomats say was his control of trade and smuggling. Then in late 2017, Mr. Ghani fired him as governor — the president appoints all provincial governors — but Mr. Noor simply refused to leave office.When Mr. Noor finally did step down last year, it was on the condition that he could handpick his successor as governor, as well as other officials.Fears that Nowruz would erupt in violence amid crowds of hundreds of thousands of people were initially allayed, however, when Mr. Ghani’s defense minister, Asadullah Khalid, met Wednesday night with Mr. Noor in his palatial home, a series of buildings connected by massive underground halls.Over dinner, the two discussed security and Mr. Noor’s aides said he had agreed to keep the calm — at least until after the Nowruz celebrations.At the heart of those celebrations is the raising of the jahenda bala banner on a thick 40-foot pole topped by a massive silver and gold finial, at the Blue Mosque. The banner symbolizes the prophet Ali, revered by Shiite Muslims in Afghanistan, many of whom believe he is buried in the mosque. (Most Shiites say he lies in Najaf, Iraq.)But the jahenda bala is revered by all Afghans as well, a tradition that many say has its origins in ancient Zoroastrian traditions, dating back to the mythical King Jamshid, who was believed by the ancients to have risen as the sun to stop an endless winter from wiping out all life on earth.The writer Samay Hamed, a Mazar native, said: “Nowruz means ‘new day,’ so people consider it a new start. It’s also a national and traditional cultural celebration with roots before Islam, thousands of years ago.”When the jahenda bala was raised Thursday, hoisted by four ropes in front of the Blue Mosque, cannons were fired and security personnel struggled to keep back enthusiastic crowds seeking to kiss or just touch the pole. A popular superstition is that if the massive pole is dropped or falls, disaster will befall Afghanistan in the coming year.That mishap, at least, did not happen to the jahenda bala this year. Nor had it in recent years, even as the country has endured over 17 years of war with no easy end in sight.Follow Rod Nordland on Twitter: @RodNordlandNajim Rahim contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byEncouraging and exploiting division has worked for Trump, as far as his own electoral prospects are concerned. Can he keep it up?By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.However often President Trump strays from his favored political strategy, he faithfully returns to it like a dog to a bone: first, polarize the American electorate along racial, cultural and economic lines, then exploit the schisms that have supplanted the class divisions that were once central to both American and European partisan politics.On one side of the divide are those whom the political scientists Pippa Norris and Ronald Inglehart describe in a 2016 paper as comfortable with “an inexorable cultural escalator moving postindustrial societies steadily in a more progressive direction.” This new direction amounts to what the authors callan intergenerational shift toward post-materialist values, such as cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism, generating rising support for left-libertarian parties such as the Greens and other progressive movements advocating environmental protection, human rights, and gender equality.On the other side, Norris and Inglehart write, is a counterrevolution, aretro backlash, especially among the older generation, white men, and less educated sectors, who sense decline and actively reject the rising tide of progressive values, resent the displacement of familiar traditional norms, and provide a pool of supporters potentially vulnerable to populist appeals.Economic distress, they argue, reinforces cultural alienation to produce fertile terrain for Trump. “Fears of economic insecurity, including the individual experience of the loss of secure, well-paid blue-collar jobs, and the collective experience of living in declining communities of the left-behinds” combine to make votersmore susceptible to the anti-establishment appeals of authoritarian-populist actors, offering simple slogans blaming “Them” for stripping prosperity, job opportunities, and public services from “Us.” The collision of these forces has produced the emergence of an American authoritarianism. In their book, “Cultural Backlash: Trump, Brexit and Authoritarian Populism,” which comes out later this week, Norris and Inglehart write that Trump has assumed leadership of this authoritarian movement,defined as a cluster of values prioritizing collective security for the group at the expense of liberal autonomy for the individual. Authoritarian values prioritize three core components: 1) the importance of security against risks of instability and disorder (foreigners stealing our jobs, immigrants attacking our women, terrorists threatening our safety); 2) the value of group conformity to preserve conventional traditions and to guard our way of life (defending “Us” against threats to “European values”); and 3) the need for loyal obedience toward strong leaders who protect the group and its customs (“I alone can fix it," “Believe me,” “Are you on my team?").The United States and many European countries, at various points in the last decade, have reached a critical juncture, Norris and Inglehart write: “The interwar generation, non-college graduates, the working class, white Europeans, the more religious, men and residents of rural communities” have come to feel “estranged from the silent revolution in social and moral values, left behind by cultural tides that they deeply reject.” These men and women, “until recently the politically and socially dominant group in Western cultures,” reacheda tipping point at which their hegemonic status, power and privilege is fading. Their values make them potential supporters for parties and leaders promising to restore national sovereignty (Make America Great Again), restrict immigration and multicultural diversity (Build a Wall) and defend traditional religious and conventional moral values.The debate over whether the rise of right-wing populism is driven by cultural anxiety, racism, ethnocentricity or economic deprivation may “be somewhat artificial,” Norris and Inglehart contend becauseinteractive processes may possibly link these factors, if structural changes in the work force and social trends in globalized markets heighten economic insecurity, and if this, in turn, stimulates a negative backlash among traditionalists toward cultural shifts. It may not be an either/or question, but one of relative emphasis with interactive effects.In this country, the nominally class-based politics of the New Deal fractured when working class non-college whites felt abandoned by a Democratic Party that shed its pre-civil rights, segregationist southern wing and that by the 1970s had adopted a culturally and racially liberal agenda. Over the past five decades, these white voters have formed the core of the populist right. Conversely, minorities, many of whom face the same economic hardships as working class whites, if not worse, are firmly aligned with the party of social and cultural liberalism and racial equality, the Democratic Party.“The new cultural cleavage dividing Populists and Cosmopolitan Liberals,” Norris and Inglehart write, is “orthogonal to the classic economic class cleavage” — in other words, the new division cuts across and splits the old economic class solidarity.Data from a preliminary American National Election Studies survey — provided to me by Matthew DeBell, a scholar at Stanford’s Institute for Research in the Social Sciences — revealed the strength of this new cleavage. The survey asked 2,500 men and women to rank their feelings toward Trump on a “feeling thermometer” scale of zero, “very cold or unfavorable,” to 100, “very warm or favorable.”The results illustrate that the population is even more divided between those who love and those who hate Trump than we might think. Sixty-one percent had either extremely hostile or very positive feelings toward the president.Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory University, analyzed the responses to the survey. He wrote me that nearly two out of five of those surveyed, 38 percent, put Trump in the coldest range, 5 degrees or lower. 23 percent, put him in the warmest range, 95 degrees or higher. If the definition of extreme is expanded to encompass those who rank Trump from 0 to 10 and from 90 to 100, the total grows to 72 percent — 44 percent at 10 degrees or lower, 28 percent 90 degrees or higher.Abramowitz noted that “Trump is the most polarizing president in the history of ANES polling and Gallup polling.”Not only is Trump the most polarizing president, he has monopolized public attention and managed to make himself the object of both loathing and adoration.“The 2020 elections will certainly be all about Trump, assuming he is on the ballot and to a considerable extent even if he is not,” Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, wrote me in an email. “The 2018 election was all about Trump even though he was not on the ballot.”Stanley Feldman, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, elaborated on Trump’s self-generated centrality in an email:While Democrats and Republicans were already quite polarized before Trump ran for the presidency, I don’t think there is any question that he has contributed to further polarization. It is increasingly difficult to find people who don’t feel strongly about him.Trump, Feldman noted,taps into some fundamental issues in contemporary American politics — race/ethnicity, social issues, nationalism — and his rhetoric — clearly designed to appeal to his base — turns off many of those who are not with him on those issues. When you do little or nothing to broaden your support beyond your core voters you will generate extreme affective reactions.Feldman posed the question:Will this make the 2020 election largely about Trump? To a great extent yes, though the answer to that will depend in part on who the Democratic candidate is. As we saw in 2016, negative reactions to Hillary Clinton contributed to the outcome of that election.Feldman’s point about Clinton leads to the next question. As the Democratic selection of a nominee begins in earnest, one issue threatens the cohesion of the center-left coalition: whether the party should support expansive liberal initiatives like Medicare for All, a sharp hike in tax rates on the rich and a Green New Deal or whether it should stake out the center.Columnists who lean toward the center themselves have been particularly sharp in their criticism of the leftward movement of the party.“Democrats Are Boosting Trump’s Re-election Prospects,” read the headline of a National Journal article last week by Josh Kraushaar: Their top 2020 presidential hopefuls are embracing socialist-minded economic policy, from a Green New Deal to single-payer health insurance. It’s playing right into the president’s hands.Gerald Seib, a columnist at The Wall Street Journal, wrote earlier this week that “Democrats have arrived at a moment of great opportunity, but also of great peril.”Increasingly, he argued, the party has becomeidentified with policy proposals that are easy for Republicans to caricature as left-wing extremism. It is a fair bet that a majority of congressional Democrats don’t support either a 70 percent top tax rate or an across-the-board wealth tax on the richest Americans.In addition, Seib noted, “the party is beginning to experience the consequences of a zero-tolerance attitude on perceived misbehavior.”According to Seib, “Democrats face this question: Could they manage to scare off that center just as it has become so available?” The risk, Seib wrote,is that centrist voters will think they see that an angry left wing taking charge. Democrats could appear to be succumbing to the national mood of anger, when the better image might be of hope.In his State of the Union address on Feb. 5, Trump laid the groundwork for an assault on Democrats, declaring:Here, in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country. America was founded on liberty and independence — not government coercion, domination, and control. We are born free, and we will stay free. Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country.I asked Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at Tufts who is one of the directors of the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, whether Democratic primary voters are pushing presidential candidates to take stands on issues further to the left than the general electorate would accept.Contrary to the view of many political analysts, Schaffner countered with data suggesting that this is not the case.“I actually don’t think Democratic primary voters are substantially more liberal than Democrats more broadly,” he wrote, adding that many of the party’s new policy initiatives are, in fact, “favored by a majority of those who voted in 2016.”He cited the following results from the 2016 Cooperative Congressional Election Study survey.Who favored granting legal status to immigrants? Democratic primary voters: 79 percent support; Democrats in general: 77 percent support; all voters: 55 percent support.Who would require minimum amounts of renewable energy? Democratic primary voters: 85 percent support; Democrats in general: 80 percent support; all voters: 61 percent support.Ban assault rifles? Democratic primary voters: 91 percent support; Democrats in general: 84 percent support; all voters: 64 percent.Eliminate mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent offenders? Democratic primary voters: 84 percent support; Democrats in general: 78 percent support; all voters: 67 percent.How about raising the minimum wage to $12 per hour? Democratic primary voters: 92 percent support; Democrats in general: 90 percent support; all voters: 65 percent.Along similar lines, four political scientists, John Sides and Christopher Warshaw of George Washington University, and Lynn Vavreck and Chris Tausanovitch of UCLA, write in a March 2018 paper, “On the Representativeness of Primary Electorates” that “primary voters are frequently characterized as an ideologically extreme subset of their party, and thus partially responsible for increasing party polarization in government.” On the contrary, they find “that primary voters are similar to rank and file voters in their party” and thus “the composition of primary electorates does not exert a polarizing effect above what might arise from voters in the party as a whole.”Jacobson of UCSD strongly agreed, arguing that Democrats’ intense dislike of Trump will make them willing to forgive a candidate who fails to adopt all their favored policies if the candidate looks like a winner:Most Democrats will have as their prime goal — far more important than positions taken by the candidates — making sure Trump does not have a second term.The national election survey cited above reveals the depth of the electorate’s divisions on a range of issues in the Trump era.On what may prove to the crucial subject of debate over the next two — impeachment — the public is split.The survey found that a 42.1 plurality favors impeachment, including 24.9 percent who favor it strongly. A slightly smaller 38 percent oppose impeachment, including 30 percent who oppose it strongly. 19.9 percent did not take a stand.Americans are evenly divided in their assessment of Trump’s repeated denials that neither he nor his campaign ever coordinated with Russia to defeat Hillary Clinton. According to the survey, 49.9 percent agreed with the statement “Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign probably coordinated with the Russians,” while 50.1 percent said the campaign “probably did not coordinate.”One of Trump’s signature claims during the 2016 campaign was the promise that he would “drain the swamp” of corruption in the nation’s capital. That promise, according the public, is not holding up well.The survey asked “Has corruption in government increased, decreased, or stayed the same since Donald Trump became president?” The result? More than half, 54 percent, said corruption has increased under Trump, including 26.6 percent who said it has increased “a great deal.” 28 percent said the level of corruption remains unchanged, and 18.4 percent said corruption had decreased. 3.1 percent said corruption had decreased “a great deal.”Trump has railed against the Mueller investigation since it began, calling it an “illegal Joseph McCarthy style Witch Hunt.” Asked about the Mueller investigation, 45.1 of those surveyed said they approved, 16.6 points more than the 28.5 percent who said they disapproved, 19.7 percent “extremely strongly.” 28.4 percent had no opinion.Trump has pushed the authoritarian envelope further than any president (or major party presidential candidate) in recent memory.Let’s turn back to Gary Jacobson. “As long as Trump is on the scene, the nation is bound to remain deeply divided,” Jacobson writes in “Extreme Referendum: Donald Trump and the 2018 Midterm Elections,” which will appear in a forthcoming issue of Political Science Quarterly:To the extent that he reshapes the Republican Party in his white nationalist image, these divisions will deepen further and every election, like the 2018 midterms, will be fought with both sides convinced that nothing less than the future of American democracy is at stake.Norris and Inglehart suggest that the dependence of the populist right on older voters may lead to its steady decline as those voters die off, but they are not confident that this will happen. “It remains to be seen how resilient liberal democracy will be in Western societies, or whether it will be damaged irreparably by authoritarian populist forces” they write at the conclusion of their book. “The problem is not just Trump, nor is it just America. It reflects pervasive economic and cultural changes, for which there are no easy answers.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byStrategiesBy Jeff SommerStarbucks’ stock has been soaring, its earnings are strong, and it has been expanding rapidly in its fastest-growing major market, China.Yet as shareholders head toward the company’s annual meeting on March 20, there is a cloud on the horizon: the risk that latte lovers will punish Starbucks because they are turned off by Howard Schultz’s prospective campaign for president.Mr. Schultz, who presided over Starbucks when it went public in 1992 and dominated it for years, gave up his last operational position at Starbucks in June. Still, the company embodies his taste and vision. What’s more, Mr. Schultz remains Starbucks’ largest individual shareholder, and the current chief executive, Kevin Johnson, is his chosen successor.In official documents, Starbucks says this is a “pivotal year,” one in which it is making the transition from a “founder-led” to a “founder-inspired” company. That would have been hard enough if Mr. Schultz, 65, had retired quietly, said Nancy F. Koehn, a historian at the Harvard Business School who has studied Mr. Schultz and Starbucks extensively. But his incipient quest for the presidency as a third-party candidate, she said, makes the handover much more difficult.“When a charismatic leader steps away from a company he — or she — has essentially created, it’s not easy for a successor to pick up the reins of energy and inspiration and engagement,” Ms. Koehn said. “But now, with Howard saying he is, or may be, running for president, in a year in which so many people feel so passionately about unseating the current president, Donald Trump, the transition is immeasurably harder.”A longtime Democrat, Mr. Schultz said in late January that he was “seriously considering running for president as a centrist independent.”And since late January, he has been acting like a candidate — crisscrossing the country, promoting a new book and criticizing what he calls ”a broken system where the extreme left and the extreme right will not give the people what they want.”Along the way, he has attracted the enmity of Democrats who fear that if he actually runs as a third-party candidate, he will aid in the re-election of President Trump.In a tweet on Jan. 26, for example, Neera Tanden, the president of Center for American Progress, a liberal nonprofit group, and a former adviser to Hillary Clinton, called Mr. Schultz’s political project “disgusting” and said she would organize a Starbucks boycott if his exploratory effort became a bona fide campaign.“I’m not giving a penny that will end up in the election coffers of a guy who will help Trump win,” she said.Starbucks evidently considers Mr. Schultz’s presidential ambitions toxic enough that it will not comment about him at all. When I contacted the company for this column, it referred me to a statement Mr. Johnson issued to employees on Jan. 28.“Many of us will inevitably be asked if the company supports a possible presidential candidacy of Howard and what changes for Starbucks. As a company, we don’t get involved in national political campaigns,” he said. “And nothing changes for Starbucks.”As a company that must depend on the good will of customers, Starbucks meticulously listed eight pages of “risk factors” in its 2018 annual report. It warned, for example, that “consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly” if the company or its partners “are perceived to act in an unethical, illegal, racially biased or unequal treatment basis or socially irresponsible manner.”Starbucks did not address the risk that, fair or not, consumer demand might “diminish significantly” if Mr. Schultz pursued his presidential ambitions.For anything “Howard Schultz-related” now, the company said, I needed to talk to Mr. Schultz’s personal representatives. So I reached out to the fledgling Schultz political operation. Erin McPike, a spokeswoman, said she worked for a “testing-the-waters operation, which is not yet a formal presidential campaign.”“Let me make perfectly clear that he left Starbucks and left the board of directors and separated himself from the company,” Ms. McPike said. “He has made a complete separation. He’s not tied to it in an active way.”While that appears to be true, Mr. Schultz is tied to the company in countless other ways. Notably, his wealth was derived from Starbucks and remains intimately connected with it.The company’s current proxy describes Mr. Schultz’s finances extensively, for example, citing him by name 93 times — more than the combined total of Mr. Johnson and Myron E. Ullman III, the chairman. With the help of Courtney Yu, director of research for Equilar, an executive compensation firm, I obtained a tally of Mr. Schultz’s compensation and holdings.In the company’s 2018 fiscal year, for the months that he was executive chairman his salary was only $1. But Equilar found that Mr. Schultz’s actual pay — including exercised stock options, vested stock and retirement income — amounted to $76,745,740.I asked Mr. Yu to assess Mr. Schultz’s total Starbucks compensation going back to 2007. It amounted to $774,622,478. And then there was his Starbucks stock: He controlled 37,694,049 shares on Dec. 17. On Friday afternoon, those shares would have been worth about $2.6 billion.It is not just that Starbucks generated Mr. Schultz’s wealth. The company is his main credential as a prospective chief executive for America.“My business experience is not qualification to run for president, but it is what I’ve learned along the way,” he said in a Houston “town hall” carried on CNN. He added: “Look at Starbucks, what I’ve done in the last 36 years.”In politics, Mr. Schultz is positioning himself as socially liberal but fiscally conservative, a status that is consistent with his policies at Starbucks. He points to a socially conscious company that has provided good health care, pay and education benefits for its diverse work force — as well as enormous profits for investors. Since 1992, the annualized return on its shares has been 22.7 percent, according to Bloomberg. Mr. Schultz has made longtime shareholders rich.In an interview, Greg Strimple, Mr. Schultz’s pollster, said: “As core Howard Schultz voters, we see about 25 percent of the Democratic electorate — people who would be in the Biden-Bloomberg-business wing of the party — plus the Romney-Jeb Bush ‘Never Trumper’ part of the Republican Party, plus a lot of independents. And that’s just a start.”Michael R. Bloomberg’s decision not to seek the presidency in 2020 provides Mr. Schultz with running room, his associates said, while his options narrow if Joseph R. Biden Jr. embarks on a campaign. On the other hand, they said, his path widens if someone like Senator Bernie Sanders wins the Democratic nomination.That calculus enrages many Democrats: Any Democratic votes he might receive, as an independent, could simply help the Republican candidate, presumably Mr. Trump, whom Mr. Schultz says he opposes. But Mr. Strimple said Mr. Schultz could attract Republican votes and wasn’t aiming to be a spoiler.“When people say he’s a spoiler, we frame it as the ‘two-party system is broken, and it’s time for a centrist leader who will bring the country together,’” Mr. Strimple said. “When people look at it that way, we find he gets a lot of support.”How much support remains to be seen. Mr. Schultz will probably decide whether to run during the summer, Ms. McPike said. Early polls are unreliable, and the presidential race is fluid. No polls that I have seen indicate that Mr. Schultz could win the presidency, though some suggest that he might well disrupt the election.That possibility already troubles some Starbucks customers, who have been using the #boycottstarbucks hashtag to express their opinions on Twitter.Some protesters have called for a boycott using other platforms. Michael Moore, the filmmaker, has called for one until Mr. Schultz says he won’t run. A Bloomberg analysis points out that 70 percent of Starbucks stores in the United States are in counties that tend to vote Democratic, making the coffee chain vulnerable to discontent on the left.In short, it seems safe to say the more attention Mr. Schultz’s nascent independent candidacy gets, the greater the likelihood that Starbucks customers will buy their lattes elsewhere.Follow Jeff Sommer on Twitter: @jeffsommer.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]Larry Hogan is a guy who has spent a whole lot of time talking about running for president.But none of it, he says, is his idea.In recent weeks, Mr. Hogan, the Republican governor of deeply blue Maryland, has become the avatar of the G.O.P.’s “Never Trump” faction, carefully positioning himself as the reluctant savior ready to step in for his party should a big bombshell drop.Mr. Hogan is a popular politician with an interesting — and perhaps prescient — personal story: His father, as a member of the House Judiciary Committee, was the very first Republican to come out for President Richard M. Nixon’s impeachment, and was the only congressional Republican to vote for all three articles of impeachment.Mr. Hogan says he had never given much thought to being president before he was approached by prominent Trump critics like William Kristol, a leader of the motley crew of moderate Republicans, libertarians and foreign policy hawks who make up the Never Trump movement. “No interest, no thought, no desire, no plans,” he told me and my colleague Alex Burns in an interview last week.“I guess I just left the door open, saying, ‘You never say never,’” he said. “I don’t know what’s going to happen in the next several months.”He was in Iowa today for a National Governors Association event. A trip to New Hampshire later this spring is being considered.Mr. Hogan is right: A lot can happen in the next few months, particularly given the news today that the House Judiciary Committee requested documents from 81 agencies, individuals and companies tied to the president, including his sons and son-in-law, Jared Kushner.Former Gov. John Kasich and former Senator Jeff Flake have talked about challenging the president, and at least one potential opponent is nearly in the race already — former Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts, who started an exploratory committee last month.But there are a few key facts to remember when you hear Republicans floating the idea:1. No sitting president in the modern era has been successfully unseated in a primary.2. Mr. Trump is still really, really popular among Republicans. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released over the weekend found that nearly 90 percent of Republicans approve of the president.3. Despite the best efforts of the Never Trump movement, the party establishment — the national committee, members of Congress and party activists — is firmly behind Mr. Trump.“They have the right to jump in and lose. They’ll lose horribly,” said the Republican National Committee chairwoman, Ronna Romney McDaniel, at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference this past weekend. “Have at it. Go ahead. Waste your money, waste your time and go ahead and lose.”That’s not to say a primary race would have no effect on Mr. Trump: Strong primary challenges contributed to the general election defeats of Presidents Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter and George Bush.But a strong challenge — meaning one that has a chance of actual success — is pretty unlikely.Irrespective of the president, both Mr. Hogan and Mr. Weld would most likely face a serious uphill climb to win over Republican voters, given their differences with much of the base. Mr. Kasich failed to win any state but his own when he ran for president in 2016 as a more moderate voice.In our interview, Mr. Hogan criticized Republicans in Congress for having tried to repeal the Affordable Care Act without proposing a suitable alternative. He said that he believed Roe v. Wade, which made abortion legal nationwide, had been correctly decided. And he declined to express any personal view of whether the Senate had been right to confirm Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, a vote that awarded Republicans control of the Supreme Court for a generation.For his part, Mr. Hogan, a popular governor who won with cross-party support, says he fears the current administration is “shrinking” the party’s base, leaving Republicans at a serious disadvantage in their efforts to “reach a wider audience and to not alienate people and not to be as divisive.”He may be right. But that’s not an argument likely to win over Republican voters.Just ask Mr. Kasich.____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________If you’re a regular reader of this newsletter, you know we love dumping on early primary polls. At most, they are a decent gauge of name recognition — a metric that will quickly shift as candidates campaign.So we were really excited to see this far more enlightening question in the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released over the weekend. The survey left off the names and asked about characteristics — say, “a candidate who is a woman” — as a way of testing voter biases.The results held some good news for the historically diverse Democratic field. Only 10 percent expressed reservations with an African-American candidate and 14 percent with a female candidate. Comfort with a gay or lesbian candidate surged to 68 percent, up from 43 percent in 2006.But the biggest takeaway could be bad news for a candidate who looks awfully like Bernie Sanders.Sixty-two percent of voters said they were uncomfortable backing a candidate older than age 75. Seventy-one percent expressed reservations with a socialist.Hmmm … I happen to know an aging socialist who gave a big campaign speech in Brooklyn over the weekend.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________• Houses lay shredded and entire neighborhoods flattened in the wake of Sunday’s tornadoes in Alabama. At least 23 people are dead, and several are still unaccounted for.• The Académie Française — the official guardian of the French language — is so exclusive that most of France’s greatest writers never made it in. Now, four coveted lifetime seats are open.• We are living in a brave new world of high-tech veggie burgers. (Some even bleed!) But are they good for the environment? How We Get to Next investigates.____________________R.I.P. Dylan McKay … that is, Luke Perry. Riverdale will not be the same without you._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe InterpreterBy Max FisherLONDON — If you ask British voters what sort of plan for leaving the European Union they support, you tend to get hesitant, vague answers.But ask them what they oppose and you hear forceful clarity. No to Prime Minister Theresa May’s deal. No to leaving the European Union without a deal. No to “remoaners,” as tabloids call those who want to stay in the bloc.No to Ms. May herself, whose approval ratings are deeply negative. No to her rival and leader of the Labour party, Jeremy Corbyn, whose poll numbers are even worse.In a recent YouGov poll asking Britons whether Ms. May or Mr. Corbyn would make the better prime minister, the runaway winner was “not sure.”[Update: Democracy itself is on trial in Brexit, Britons say.]British politicians turn out to have a similar problem making any choice at all. On Wednesday, lawmakers said they would seize control of Brexit by holding votes on eight different ways forward — then voted them all down.Like the electorate, Parliament turned out to oppose everything. The result is chaos and drift.There is more than indecision or gridlock at play here. Britain’s breakdown, though particularly acute, represents a much wider phenomenon.Across Western democracies, politics are increasingly defined by opposition — opposition to the status quo, to the establishment and to one’s partisan rivals.People have always organized more easily around what they’re against than what they’re for, but this is different. Politics have grown viscerally tribal and voters instinctively destructive.This trend, driven by social change, economic upheaval and technological disruption, is worsening some of democracy’s gravest problems.It is feeding partisanship’s rancor and intransigence, as voters organize around opposing the other side. It is deepening instability, with elections that fracture parties and eject whoever holds power. And it is driving populist revolts, as citizens clamor to tear down establishments and status quos.Across Europe, mainstream parties have splintered, weakening centrist leaders and empowering hard-line populists. In the United States, all-out partisan warfare has made cooperative governance unthinkable.The trend is captured best by France’s “Yellow Vest” protesters, who can agree only on their anger at their status quo and distrust of institutions. Their tear-it-all-down ethos has left them, despite their impressive power to mobilize, politically inchoate.“This is happening everywhere,” said Steven Levitsky, a Harvard University political scientist, referring to the collapse of what scholars call Schumpeterian democracy, named for the Austrian theorist Joseph Schumpeter. Long the basis of modern democracy, in which establishments managed popular will and sought a common good, it is giving way to a new system that is both primal and distinctly 21st century.“For better and worse, the moderation, policy stability and informal checks imposed by the establishments’ monopoly over access to elected office are disappearing,” Mr. Levitsky said. With social distrust and political chaos rising, he added, “This is going to be a major challenge going forward.”In 2015, the political scientists Alan Abramowitz and Steven Webster identified a mystery: Americans expressed record levels of party loyalty and party-line voting, but were less likely than ever to identify as Republican or Democrat. How could people be simultaneously at their most partisan and least supportive of their own party?The answer, they found, was a rising force called negative partisanship. Americans increasingly voted based on their fear and distrust of the other side, not support for their own.This had a more destructive effect than merely widening partisan divides. It weakened parties, now less able to draw on a united base or enthusiasm for an affirmative agenda. And it empowered whoever would promise to tear down the other side.“This has generated an electorate that is more biased against and angry at opponents, and more willing to act on that bias and anger,” the political scientist Lilliana Mason wrote in a book-length study of the change, which she credited to the parties growing socially and demographically homogeneous.Parties organized around opposition have proven less able to govern. Republicans ran for three consecutive elections on opposition to Obamacare. But after taking the White House and both houses of Congress, the party failed to unite around any plan to replace it.In Britain, Brexit has been animated by opposition to the European Union, rather than any clear alternative to membership.The politics of destruction tend to lead to breakdown. Parties might do well in one election by promising to crush the other side — as Republicans did in 2016 and Britain’s Labour in 2017 — only to suffer their own humiliating defeat in the very next cycle.In Britain, every major political figure has higher disapproval than approval ratings, leaving politics rudderless. While polls are not so dire in the rest of Europe, the trend is similar.Voters are rejecting more than their opponents — economic, social and demographic change have sparked uprisings against any perceived fixture of the status quo.The 2008 financial crisis, along with skyrocketing income inequality, have stalled wages and social mobility across the West.When people hold “low trust in government and low or static expectations for their future lives,” according to research by The Gallup Organization, support for populist, anti-establishment politics surges.Research by Roberto Stefan Foa and Yascha Mounk found that as inequality rises, citizens become less likely to believe that their government is truly democratic — undermining legitimacy of the system itself.This anger, studies suggest, can be as much about dollars and cents as about fear of losing status relative to one’s neighbors and losing control of one’s future — a backlash layered with whites’ growing fears of demographic change.Populist parties, rising steadily since the civil rights movements of the 1960s, have surged amid recent immigration booms by championing nativist fears of lost national identity, and railing against establishments as having sold the people out.Brexit channeled these sentiments, framing the European Union as the ultimate establishment, and immigration as a perilous threat. So did European and American populists, running on hardening borders and retaking control from corrupt elites.But no set of renegotiated trade and visa arrangements could deliver on Brexit’s underlying promise of restoring a sense of order that, for some supporters, came from long-gone social orders. So no plan can win the support to prevail.Populist parties have suffered similarly Pyrrhic victories across the West, following their stunning successes in 2015 and 2016 with setbacks and stalls. Still, the underlying outrage and distrust remain, leaving mainstream politics unable to fill the vacuums opened by populists.“From the birth of liberal democracy through the late twentieth century,” said Mr. Levitsky, political establishments “more or less” controlled access to elected office.Change, much of it technological, has ended that era. Outsider candidates can raise money online, running without the consent of party chiefs or groups like organized labor. They can reach voters through social media, circumventing gatekeepers and mainstream media.The rise of primaries in the United States since the 1970s, and outsider parties in Europe, further weakened mainstream parties’ control over ballots. Voters, not establishments, now control access to office.“This, of course, is democratizing. But it is also destabilizing,” Mr. Levitsky said. Self-interested establishments often blocked popular ideas and minority groups. But they also formed what the French call a cordon sanitaire — quarantine — against nationalist or far-right politics.This quarantine has begun to crack, with right-wing populists claiming to represent the true will of the people against mainstream parties that want to suppress that will. Their battle for control has deepened voters’ sense that democracy itself is at stake.In Britain, supporters of Brexit often see delays and setbacks as proof that elites never really intended to allow popular will to prevail. Mainstream leaders, including Ms. May, have warned that revoking Brexit would shatter Britons’ already-tenuous faith in their democracy.Talk of remaining has become a political third rail even as polls suggest it now has majority support. Lawmakers are scrambling for any Brexit plan with a public mandate when none appears to exist.The Interpreter is a column by Max Fisher and Amanda Taub exploring the ideas and context behind major world events. Follow them on Twitter @Max_Fisher and @amandataub.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byTwo missing species: libertarian voters and populist racist politicians.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistHoward Schultz, the coffee billionaire, who imagined that he could attract broad support as a “centrist,” turns out to have an approval rating of 4 percent, versus 40 percent disapproval.Ralph Northam, a Democrat who won the governorship of Virginia in a landslide, is facing a firestorm of denunciation from his own party over racist images on his medical school yearbook page.Donald Trump, who ran on promises to expand health care and raise taxes on the rich, began betraying his working-class supporters the moment he took office, pushing through big tax cuts for the rich while trying to take health coverage away from millions.These are, it turns out, related stories, all of them tied to the two great absences in American political life.One is the absence of socially liberal, economically conservative voters. These were the people Schultz thought he could appeal to; but basically they don’t exist, accounting for only around, yes, 4 percent of the electorate.The other is the absence of economically liberal, socially conservative politicians — let’s be blunt and just say “racist populists.” There are plenty of voters who would like that mix, and Trump pretended to be their man; but he wasn’t, and neither is anyone else.Understanding these empty quarters is, I’d argue, the key to understanding U.S. politics.Once upon a time there were racist populists in Congress: The New Deal coalition relied on a large contingent of segregationist Dixiecrats. But this was always unstable. In practice, advocating economic inclusion seems to spill over into advocacy of racial and social inclusion, too. By the 1940s, Northern Democrats were already more pro-civil rights than Northern Republicans, and as the Northam affair shows, the party now has very little tolerance for even the appearance of racism.Meanwhile, the modern Republican Party is all about cutting taxes on the rich and benefits for the poor and the middle class. And Trump, despite his campaign posturing, has turned out to be no different.Hence the failure of our political system to serve socially conservative/racist voters who also want to tax the rich and preserve Social Security. Democrats won’t ratify their racism; Republicans, who have no such compunctions, will — remember, the party establishment solidly backed Roy Moore’s Senate bid — but won’t protect the programs they depend on.But why are there so few voters holding the reverse position, combining social/racial liberalism and economic conservatism? The answer, I’d argue, lies in just how far to the right the G.O.P. has gone.Polling is unambiguous here. If you define the “center” as a position somewhere between those of the two parties, when it comes to economic issues the public is overwhelmingly left of center; if anything, it’s to the left of the Democrats. Tax cuts for the rich are the G.O.P.’s defining policy, but two-thirds of voters believe that taxes on the rich are actually too low, while only 7 percent believe that they’re too high. Voters support Elizabeth Warren’s proposed tax on large fortunes by a three-to-one majority. Only a small minority want to see cuts in Medicaid, even though such cuts have been central to every G.O.P. health care proposal in recent years.Why did Republicans stake out a position so far from voters’ preferences? Because they could. As Democrats became the party of civil rights, the G.O.P. could attract working-class whites by catering to their social and racial illiberalism, even while pursuing policies that hurt ordinary workers.The result is that to be an economic conservative in America means advocating policies that, on their merits, only appeal to a small elite. Basically nobody wants these policies on their own; they only sell if they’re packaged with racial hostility.So what do the empty quarters of U.S. politics mean for the future? First, of course, that Schultz is a fool — and so are those who dream of a reformed G.O.P. that remains conservative but drops its association with racists. There’s hardly anyone who wants that mix of positions.Second, fears that Democrats are putting their electoral prospects in danger by moving too far left, for example by proposing higher taxes on the rich and Medicare expansion, are grossly exaggerated. Voters want an economic move to the left — it’s just that some of them dislike Democratic support for civil rights, which the party can’t drop without losing its soul.What’s less clear is whether there’s room for politicians willing to be true racist populists, unlike Trump, who was faking the second part. There’s a substantial bloc of racist-populist voters, and you might think that someone would try to serve them. But maybe the gravitational attraction of big money — which has completely captured the G.O.P., and has arguably kept Democrats from moving as far left as the electorate really wants — is too great.In any case, if there’s a real opening for an independent, that candidate will look more like George Wallace than like Howard Schultz. Billionaires who despise the conventional parties should beware of what they wish for.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jesse McKinley and Shane Goldmacher[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — A handful of the nation’s leading left-leaning Democrats, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, have picked a fight with an unexpected opponent: the New York State Democratic Party.They are fighting over an arcane, but critical, aspect of New York’s election laws that gives small parties the ability to wield significant influence in state politics.The practice, known as fusion voting, allows small political parties to cross-endorse major candidates, which has enabled organizations like the Working Families Party to become a darling of the progressive left and a growing irritant to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo.The State Democratic Party on Monday passed a resolution to get rid of fusion voting. New York is only one of a small handful of states that allow it.Mr. Cuomo has not taken a public position on fusion voting, but it seemed unlikely that the State Democratic Party — whose fealty to the governor is so pronounced that the prayer at the 2018 convention praised his accomplishments — would act without his approval.As such, the dispute could open another fault line between the party’s establishment — represented by Mr. Cuomo, a lifelong centrist who had banked to the left in his second term — and the party’s more insurgent wing, which is still suspicious of the governor’s history of working with Republicans.Mr. Sanders asked Mr. Cuomo on Twitter about his feelings on the issue, saying the state party’s proposed action “reeks of vengeance against progressives and the Working Families Party,” which endorsed Cynthia Nixon in her unsuccessful primary challenge against the governor last year.“What’s more, it’s anti-democratic,” Mr. Sanders said on Twitter. “We should be for more democracy, not less. Don’t you agree @NYGovCuomo?”That tweet was later deleted and replaced with a less confrontational comment. (Josh Orton, a spokesman for Mr. Sanders, said an early draft of the senator’s tweet was accidentally posted and then quickly replaced, and that Mr. Cuomo’s team had not communicated any reaction about the initial tweet.)Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, also on Twitter, conveyed her support for the practice, decrying “New York’s notorious closed-party primaries and calcified political machines,” and calling fusion voting “one of the few bright spots that allows independent NYers to vote their values.”“There isn’t a single good reason to eliminate it,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez wrote.A Cuomo administration official suggested on Monday that the Working Families Party was creating an imagined conflict to stir up support for itself.“I know they were humiliated in last year’s governor’s race, but that’s no excuse to run around spreading lies and ranting about conspiracies,” said Richard Azzopardi, a senior adviser to Mr. Cuomo. “It’s both sad and a bad look.”The state party’s resolution has little practical impact; any effort to eliminate fusion voting must be approved by the Democrat-controlled State Legislature, and such legislation would likely face a difficult path, even with the state party supporting the move. Many Democratic lawmakers benefit from appearing on multiple lines.Much of the Senate Democratic conference, which took control of Albany’s upper chamber in January, is opposed to eliminating fusion voting, including a bloc of six newly elected senators who in a letter released on Monday thanked the W.F.P., and fusion voting, for getting them into office.“Progressives want to make it easier for voters to express their values and viewpoints, not harder,” the six senators wrote. “That means mending our current system of fusion voting, not ending it.”A spokesman for the Senate Democrats, Mike Murphy, said there was “no legislative proposal” to end fusion voting and that the “Senate majority has been clear that we support efforts to empower voters and strengthen New York’s democracy.”By day’s end, nearly two dozen Democratic senators, in a letter to the Democratic leader, Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, said that abolishing fusion voting was a bad idea. They also called on Ms. Stewart-Cousins to decouple any negotiation over fusion voting from the budget, due April 1, when Mr. Cuomo could have some leverage over lawmakers. “The policy debate is too important to New York voters to be left to the 11th hour,” the letter read.On the other side of the Capitol, the Democratic speaker of the Assembly, Carl E. Heastie of the Bronx, was more circumspect, saying he and his conference had not yet discussed the issue.Fusion voting helps facilitate the survival of parties like the Conservative Party and the Independence Party, which often endorse Republicans. Under state law, any party which receives 50,000 votes in a gubernatorial election is guaranteed a spot on the ballot for the next four years.Mr. Cuomo collected votes on four different ballot lines, including the Working Families Party, on the way toward a record vote-tally in November. But the W.F.P. did not endorse Mr. Cuomo in the primary; party leaders, saying they wanted to support a “real Democrat,” chose Ms. Nixon.The W.F.P.’s bet backfired when Mr. Cuomo badly defeated Ms. Nixon in September, and the group subsequently endorsed Mr. Cuomo in the general election in a humbling reversal. Since then, the party has anticipated retribution from Mr. Cuomo, who has been known to hold a grudge.The W.F.P. continued to issue warning shots to the Democratic Party in the last several days, sending out a battery of letters from supporters of fusion voting — including Senators Chuck Schumer, Kirsten Gillibrand, and most of the state’s Democratic House of Representatives delegation — and issuing multiple online pleas for support tagged with #StandWithWFP and #NoFusionBan.After the vote on Monday, the group’s state director, Bill Lipton, also bashed the resolution, accusing the Democratic State Committee of “carrying Cuomo’s water to exact revenge” against progressives and his party. “Luckily, Democratic elected officials, activists and progressive leaders aren’t buying it,” Mr. Lipton said.At the party meeting in Westchester on Monday, several supporters of the resolution seemed to suggest that Democrats were fed up with the influence that small parties like the W.F.P. wield.“I’m tired of the tail wagging the dog,” said Tim Perfetti, the chairman of the Cortland County Democratic Party.Jay Jacobs, the newly elected party chairman and the head of the Nassau County Democratic Party, denied that Mr. Cuomo had called for the party to take up the ban, saying that he, other county leaders and members of the party’s progressive caucus had long wanted it passed, citing election wins by Republicans thanks to third-party votes.Still, Mr. Jacobs acknowledged that the resolution’s passage was unlikely to displease Mr. Cuomo.“Is the governor going to be unhappy about it?” Mr. Jacobs said. “Probably not.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byFractures are growing among both Democrats and Republicans.By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistIn case you haven’t noticed, long-established political parties across the democratic world are blowing up, with Britain’s Labour Party just the latest to fracture. Could America’s parties be next?Could we have our first four-party election in 2020 — with candidates from the Donald Trump far right, the old G.O.P. center right, the Joe Biden center left and the Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez far left all squaring off, as the deepening divides within our two big parties simply can’t be papered over any longer? It’s not impossible.Indeed, two phrases recently in the news that touch on core principles of the Democratic and Republican Parties are like fuses that could ignite much larger explosions in the coming year. Those phrases are: “unwilling to work” and “national emergency.”On Feb. 7, Ocasio-Cortez’s congressional office sent out an F.A.Q. explainer of the Green New Deal that she’s proposing. The initiative aims “to mobilize every aspect of American society … to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions and create economic prosperity for all.”I admire that goal and the huge energy she’s brought to it among young people. But one version of her office’s F.A.Q. stated that the Green New Deal would guarantee, among other benefits, “Economic security to all who are unable or unwilling to work.”Economic security for people “unwilling to work”? Who’s going to sign up for new taxes to support people unwilling to work or be retrained?When some commentators called this out, Ocasio-Cortez’s team said the F.A.Q. was an unfinished draft that never should have been released. I don’t buy it. It was also too late. That phrase — economic security even for people “unwilling to work” — was not just noted by conservatives. It rattled some center-left Democrats as well, because it hinted that the party’s base had moved much farther to the left in recent years than they’d realized, and it highlighted the most important fault line in today’s Democratic Party — the line between what I’d call “redivide-the-pie Democrats” and “grow-the-pie Democrats.”Grow-the-pie Democrats — think Mike Bloomberg — celebrate business, capitalism and start-ups that generate the tax base to create the resources for more infrastructure, schools, green spaces and safety nets, so more people have more opportunity and tools to capture a bigger slice of the pie.Grow-the-pie Democrats know that good jobs don’t come from government or grow on trees — they come from risk-takers who start companies. They come from free markets regulated by and cushioned by smart government.The wisest grow-the-pie Democrats have also learned something from the past few years: The benefits of Nafta, open trade with China and the rise of the digital economy — while vital for creating economic growth — don’t just automatically trickle down, any more than G.O.P. tax cuts did. They require trade insurance and surge protectors, free community college, portable health care coverage and pensions, and a very intentional strategy to more equitably spread the benefits of growth among bosses, workers and shareholders.Redivide-the-pie Democrats — think Bernie Sanders — argue that after four decades of stagnant middle-class wages — and bailouts for bankers and billionaires but not workers in 2008 — you can’t grow the pie without redividing it first. Inequality is too great now. There are too many people too far behind.The decision by Amazon to scuttle its big expansion in New York City marks the first big clash this election season between grow-the-pie Democrats, who insisted that tax breaks for Amazon would pay for themselves, and redivide-the-pie Democrats, who saw Amazon as pitting their community in a race to the bottom with other communities over which could lavish more subsides on a tech behemoth that didn’t need them.In truth, the episode was a huge failure of imagination by both sides. Virginia got it right, explained Amy Liu, urban affairs expert at the Brookings Institution, in an essay last week in The Times. Yes, it gave Amazon some $500 million in subsidies, but the state offered twice that amount in new investments in local transportation and schools to create a strong pipeline of technically skilled workers — something that will benefit the entire community for years.As for the G.O.P., it’s divided between a “limited-government-grow-the-pie” right — but one that wants to just let capitalism rip — and a “hoard-the-pie, pull-up-the-drawbridge” Trump-led far right.The limited-government-grow-the-pie faction is itself split between the Never Trumpers — who’ve refused to prostitute themselves to Trump’s serial lying, cozying up to Russia and other madness — and those who’ve hitched a ride on Trump’s wagon to get their tax cuts, conservative judges and deregulation.But Trump’s decision to declare a “national emergency” on the Mexico border has violated the party’s most core principle of limited government. In doing so it’s opened a fissure between the old limited-government-grow-the-pie Republicans and the anti-immigrant hoard-the-pie, pull-up-the-drawbridge Trumpers.The early signs are that the limited-government types — led by Mitch McConnell — are so morally bankrupt, after having sold their souls to Trump for two years, they’ll even abandon this last core principle and go along with Trump’s usurpation of Congress’s power of appropriation.Stay tuned. Over the years our two parties have usually managed to handle deep fractures. This time may be different.The level of outrage in both bases is sky high: Their ability to express that outrage through weaponized social networks, talk radio and cable television is powerful and pervasive, and the three accelerations — in globalization, technology and climate change — we’re going through are stressing everyone and demanding very different political choices.So here’s my hunch: The 2020 U.S. election will be unlike any in my lifetime.Think about it. Ever since World War II until the early 21st century, the major political parties in the West were all built on a set of stable binary choices: capital versus labor; big government/high regulation versus small government/low regulation; open to trade and immigration versus more closed to trade and immigration; embracing of new social norms, like gay rights or abortion, and opposed to them; and green versus growth.Across the industrial world parties mostly formed along one set of those binary choices or the other. But that is no longer possible.What if I am a steelworker in Pittsburgh and in the union, but on weekends I drive for Uber and rent out my kid’s spare bedroom on Airbnb — and shop at Walmart for the cheapest Chinese imports, and what I can’t find there I buy on Amazon through a chatbot that replaced a human? Monday to Friday I’m with labor. Saturday and Sunday I’m with capital.My point? Many of the old binary choices simply do not line up with the challenges to workers, communities and companies in this age of accelerating globalization, technology and climate change, but national governments are so paralyzed by partisanship that they can’t adapt. And most families are too weak to manage these forces and pass along the American dream to their kids.Fortunately, though, all is not lost. Creative adaptation is happening in many of America’s counties, cities and towns, where trust is much higher. The most successful are forging what I call “complex adaptive coalitions,” where business, labor, philanthropists, social entrepreneurs, educators and local government all network together to create jobs, attract businesses, grow housing, fix potholes and improve schools.These coalitions are not focused on splitting the differences between the old right-left binary choices. They’ve actually moved to a totally different grid — one that asks every day on every issue: “What works? Find it and share it, so we can get the best out of these accelerations in technology, globalization and climate change and cushion the worst for the most people in our community."Oxford economist Eric Beinhocker recently pointed out to me research that says there are only two ways to cure political tribalism: “A common threat or a common project.” We need a common project, and it’s obvious: Build a new foundation for the middle class. Ultimately that requires the local and the national levels to work together. But for now we should be glad that it’s at least happening at the local level.Don Baer, who served as President Clinton’s communications director, has a bumper sticker for anyone who wants to run for president in 2020 on the grid of rebuilding our country through complex adaptive coalitions — but it will take your whole bumper:“Make America work again, for those who are willing to work and for those who are willing to work together.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Santora and Steven ErlangerBUDAPEST — Fidesz, the party of Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary, was suspended from the European Union’s most powerful political coalition on Wednesday, endangering an alliance that has shielded him from serious repercussions as he has dismantled or co-opted nearly every check on his power.Over nine years, as Mr. Orban has created in Hungary what amounts to a soft dictatorship within the European Union, lawmakers in Brussels have largely stood by and watched.There have been speeches condemning his assault on fundamental human rights and threats of sanctions for undermining the core democratic values of the union, but Mr. Orban has continued to act with the swagger of a made man, confident that he was protected no matter how bold his provocation.One reason for that was that Fidesz plays a key role in the European Parliament’s largest political grouping, the generally center-right European People’s Party.There had been calls from many within the alliance to expel Mr. Orban and his party, arguing that he was making a mockery of the very political family to which he belongs. However, by not expelling Fidesz, the E.P.P. can count members of that party elected in European elections in May as part of its parliamentary grouping, and thus reduce the impact of an expected wave of populist, far-right candidates.Hungarian television featured a constant stream of programming questioning the legitimacy of the debate going on in Brussels, saying it was really about migration policy. Mr. Orban sought to cast the censure as a victory.Even though lawmakers voted nearly unanimously to suspend Fidesz, Mr. Orban said that his party had decided to suspend itself.“We would like the E.P.P. to remain the strongest party in Europe,” he said after the three-hour debate.Under the terms of the suspension, Fidesz will not be allowed to nominate candidates for jobs in the grouping or attend party meetings.It will also have to submit to a review by a three-person monitoring committee — Mr. Orban adopted a droll tone in referring to it as it is commonly known, “the council of the wise” — that will determine if the Hungarian government is meeting several conditions.Those conditions include ceasing its attacks on academic freedom. The committee will be led by a former European Council president, Herman Van Rompuy.The confrontation in Brussels was the culmination of more than a year of escalating tensions between Mr. Orban and the coalition, which also faces high stakes. Losing Fidesz’s legislators — currently, there are 12 — could cost the group its primacy in the European Parliament after May’s elections. And other parties could follow Mr. Orban out the door.“Since Fidesz got re-elected, the Hungarian government has been acting as if it was literally crying for expulsion,” said Edit Zgut, a political scientist at the University of Warsaw’s Center for Europe.In recent months, she said, the Hungarian government had stepped up attacks on academic freedom, criminalized humanitarian aid for refugees and migrants, and continued to undermine the independence of the judiciary.Wednesday’s coalition vote, she said, was a strategy to delay any hard choices and fit into a broader pattern of accommodation.At the height of Mr. Orban’s anti-democratic measures, between 2010 and 2015, he rarely faced significant censure within the European People’s Party, since his peers did not judge him a threat to European integration, and believed that they still had a moderating effect on the worst of his domestic policies.In more recent years, however, opinion has slowly shifted. Mr. Orban has relished attacking the European Union, even while enjoying the benefits that come with membership, including billions in funding that play a key role in the health of Hungary’s economy. He made clear that he no longer felt constrained by his European coalition colleagues — and even began to criticize them.In September, the European Parliament passed a resolution that raised concerns about the fairness of the courts, the independence of the news media and the freedom of academic institutions in Hungary. Dozens of European People’s Party lawmakers joined in the vote, but the grouping refused to expel him. At its annual conference in Helsinki in September, the grouping’s president, Joseph Daul, referred to Mr. Orban as the enfant terrible of the family, but a family member even so.In response to the September vote, Mr. Orban launched a domestic media blitz, accusing critics of his government of being part of a nefarious cabal bent on destroying Hungarian culture and sending hordes of migrants to the country.He also kept up his assault on the widely esteemed Central European University, which was founded by the American billionaire George Soros after the fall of the Soviet Union.Mr. Soros, who was born in Hungary, has long been used by Mr. Orban as an all-purpose villain, a symbol of sinister foreign forces that threaten the nation. His government’s relentless campaign against Mr. Soros has been widely condemned for both outright lies and for anti-Semitism.In December, the university announced that after two years of battling to stay in Hungary, it was being forced to move some of its operations to Vienna.Once again, Mr. Orban’s actions were met with widespread condemnation. But Mr. Orban seemed emboldened.In February, his government launched yet another assault on Brussels, using taxpayer funds to plaster tens of thousands of posters around the country warning that European lawmakers wanted to inundate the country with migrants.This time, however, instead of merely condemning faceless officials, the Orban government put the face of Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Union’s executive arm and a fellow member of the European People’s Party, alongside that of Mr. Soros.“You have the right to know what Brussels is planning to do,” the posters warned darkly.Mr. Orban has a bad history with Mr. Juncker, including an episode in 2014 when Mr. Juncker greeted Mr. Orban with an awkward joke, saying, “Hello, dictator,” and playfully tapping his face.But the Orban government’s direct attack on Mr. Juncker seemed a bridge too far. The propaganda campaign was denounced as a shocking promotion of a ludicrous conspiracy theory.Mr. Orban dismissed his critics inside the E.P.P., calling them “useful idiots.”It is a phrase freighted with historical resonance, sometimes attributed to Lenin, as his assessment of the naïve Western admirers of his brand of socialism.Manfred Weber, who leads the European People’s Party in the European Parliament and is running to succeed Mr. Juncker as the leader of the European Commission, rushed to Budapest, demanding an apology.Mr. Orban conceded only that he was sorry if anyone was offended. Even after the suspension, Mr. Orban denied that he had waged a campaign against Mr. Juncker, saying his government was simply informing the Hungarian people.Mr. Weber also demanded that the Central European University be allowed to once again operate in Budapest. Mr. Orban has been noncommittal, but his government signaled that he was ready to make some concessions.Given the stakes, the powerful German Christian Democrats tried to straddle the fence with support for suspension. “As long as Fidesz does not fully restore trust, there cannot be normal full membership,” Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, the leader of the party and a confidante of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, told Reuters earlier on Wednesday.Jörg Meuthen, a spokesman for the far-right Alternative for Germany party, said that Mr. Orban and Fidesz had their real home with the far right in the European Parliament.“With its clear and future-oriented positions, especially in central questions like migration and border control, Orban and Fidesz would fit much better into the family of parties in Europe that truly stands for conservatism and freedom,” Mr. Meuthen said.Marc Santora reported from Budapest, and Steven Erlanger from Brussels. Katrin Bennhold and Patrick Kingsley contributed reporting from Berlin.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — The searing portrait that Michael D. Cohen delivered on Wednesday — of a lying, cheating, racist president who used money and threats to conceal immoral and illegal behavior — will test both parties as they hurtle toward a confrontation over the fate of the presidency.Mr. Cohen, President Trump’s former personal lawyer, ripped away the veneer of loyalty that he had maintained for more than a decade and further imperiled the president by offering an insider account at the heart of the criminal investigations that have consumed Washington for nearly two years.The five-hour hearing offered a glimpse of a confrontational year ahead between Republicans still loyal to Mr. Trump and newly empowered Democrats seeking to investigate and weaken the president by demanding his tax returns and business records, and appearances before Congress by his former advisers and associates.But the year will also be a test for both parties, particularly Democrats, who after Wednesday’s testimony from Mr. Cohen will face a rising chorus from the liberal wing of the party to impeach Mr. Trump for what it says is a clear case of a president who defrauded the public about hush payments and business dealings before an election and then lied about it from the White House.“Mr. Cohen, I am upset and know that my residents feel the same way, that a man you worked for for the past 10 years is using the most powerful position in the world to hurt our country solely for personal gain,” said Representative Rashida Tlaib, Democrat of Michigan.Faced with that pressure, how long will Democratic leaders be able to argue against impeachment proceedings? And if they move ahead, with little hope of attracting bipartisan support, will they risk a backlash at the polls from voters?“The more you do this, it just fires up the base that thinks that each day he stays in office it endangers the republic,” said Thomas M. Davis, a former Republican congressman from Virginia who once led the Oversight Committee when his party controlled the House. “It’s the old thing about be careful what you ask for.”For Republicans, Mr. Cohen’s allegations will once again require Mr. Trump’s followers to decide how long they will stand by a president whose actions threaten not only his administration but also the fate of politicians in the party he now leads.Republican lawmakers on the committee reacted to Mr. Cohen’s testimony with derision, attacking him as a convicted perjurer, a Democratic patsy, a liar and a cheat. And yet, as Mr. Cohen noted in one of the most powerful moments of the day, their fierce loyalty to Mr. Trump was not unlike his own.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Alexandra Leigh Young and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa TobinIn an extraordinary public hearing, Donald Trump’s former fixer — once known for being unflinchingly loyal — became the star witness against him.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Michael Cohen is headed to prison for lying on behalf of Donald Trump. Yesterday, he told Congress he’s done protecting the president. It’s Thursday, February 28. Maggie Haberman, how does this hearing actually begin on Wednesday morning?maggie habermanThe hearing began in very dramatic fashion with Elijah Cummings, who chairs the committee, a Democrat, holding the gavel. Michael Cohen walking in through this crush of photographers and reporters, trailed by Lanny Davis, his attorney and sometimes spokesman, trailed by another of his attorneys, not by any member of his family, who I believe he was worried about attending this hearing. He sat down. His face was wan. His eyes were puffy. He looked exhausted, and defeated, and beaten down. And you could hear a pin drop as he sat down.archived recording (elijah cummings)The committee will come to order.maggie habermanSo Cummings out of the gate —archived recording (elijah cummings)I now recognize myself for five minutes to give an opening statement.maggie haberman— addressed the issue of Michael Cohen’s credibility.archived recording (elijah cummings)He admitted to lying about his actions to protect the president. Some will certainly ask, if Mr. Cohen was lying then, why should we believe him now?archived recordingGood question.archived recording (elijah cummings)This is a legitimate question.maggie habermanIt was very clear that Republicans were going to go right at Cohen, accusing him of being a liar, somebody who has admitted to lying, including admitting to lying to Congress when he gave testimony before them in 2017. So Cummings was hoping to put that to bed at the outset.archived recording (elijah cummings)This is an important factor we need to weigh. But we must weigh it, and we must hear from him.michael barbaroAnd Maggie, I found it fascinating what Cummings did at the close of this opening statement. He delivers this message straight to Cohen.archived recording (elijah cummings)Martin Luther King, Mr. Cohen, said some words that I leave with you today before you testify. He said, faith is taking the first step, even when you can’t see the whole staircase. There comes a time when silence becomes betrayal. Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that truly matter. In the end, he says, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.maggie habermanAnd with that quote, he’s trying to set up Michael Cohen’s testimony — why he’s being truthful, that what he said before is a lie, and what he is saying now is the truth. And this was important for him to set this out as a way forward as the hearing began.archived recording (elijah cummings)Raise your right hand. Do you swear or affirm that the testimony that you are about to give is the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God? Let the record show that the witness answered in the affirmative. And thank you, and you may be seated.maggie habermanSo then Michael Cohen begins his opening statement. And it was long.archived recording (michael cohen)I hope my appearance here today, my guilty plea and my work with law enforcement agencies are steps along a path of redemption that will restore faith in me and help this country understand our president better.maggie habermanAnd he began again by apologizing for lying to Congress.archived recording (michael cohen)I am here under oath to correct the record, to answer the committee’s questions truthfully and to offer the American people what I know about President Trump.maggie habermanAnd then he turned to Donald Trump.archived recording (michael cohen)I am ashamed that I chose to take part in concealing Mr. Trump’s illicit acts rather than listening to my own conscience. I am ashamed because I know what Mr. Trump is.maggie habermanAnd he depicted Donald Trump as a unsavory, unethical, immoral character.archived recording (michael cohen)Mr. Trump is a racist. The country has seen Mr. Trump court white supremacists and bigots. You have heard him call poorer countries [expletive]. In private, he is even worse. He once asked me if I can name a country run by a black person that wasn’t a [expletive]. This was when Barack Obama was president of the United States. And while we were once driving through a struggling neighborhood in Chicago, he commented that only black people could live that way. And he told me that black people would never vote for him because they were too stupid.maggie habermanSomebody who told him from the Oval Office, in an Oval Office meeting, that he would be sending him a reimbursement for hush money payments.archived recording (michael cohen)Trump is a con man. He asked me to pay off an adult film star with whom he had an affair and to lie about it to his wife, which I did. And lying to the first lady is one of my biggest regrets.maggie habermanHe portrayed Donald Trump as a cheat.archived recording (michael cohen)And it should come as no surprise that one of my more common responsibilities was that Mr. Trump directed me to call business owners, many of whom are small businesses, that were owed money for their services, and told them that no payment or a reduced payment would be coming. When I told Mr. Trump of my success, he actually reveled in it.maggie habermanAs a schemer, who would inflate his net worth or devalue it, depending on what was useful for him at various points.archived recording (michael cohen)It was my experience that Mr. Trump inflated his total assets when it served his purposes, such as trying to be listed amongst the wealthiest people in Forbes, and deflated his assets to reduce his real estate taxes.maggie habermanAt one point, Michael Cohen told a very detailed story of Donald Trump’s relationship to the Vietnam War. Remember that Donald Trump has said that he had a deferment from the draft because he had, quote, unquote, bone spurs.archived recording (michael cohen)But when I asked for medical records, he gave me none, and said that there was no surgery. He told me not to answer the specific questions by reporters, but rather, offer simply the fact that he received a medical deferment. He finished the conversation with the following comment: “Do you think I’m stupid? I’m not going to Vietnam.”maggie habermanAnd at that moment, Michael Cohen looked directly into the camera.archived recording (michael cohen)And I find it ironic, Mr. President, that you are in Vietnam right now.michael barbaroRight.maggie habermanIt was damning stuff.archived recording (michael cohen)A lot of people have asked me about whether Mr. Trump knew about the release of the hacked documents, the Democratic National Committee emails, ahead of time. And the answer is yes. In July of 2016, days before the Democratic Convention, I was in Mr. Trump’s office when his secretary announced that Roger Stone was on the phone. Mr. Trump put Mr. Stone on the speakerphone. Mr. Stone told Mr. Trump that he had just gotten off the phone with Julian Assange, and that Mr. Assange told Mr. Stone that within a couple of days there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Mr. Trump responded by stating to the effect, wouldn’t that be great.michael barbaroAnd then he brings up, of course, the now-infamous Moscow project.maggie habermanRight.archived recording (michael cohen)I lied to Congress when Mr. Trump stopped negotiating the Moscow tower project in Russia. I stated that we stopped negotiating in January of 2016. That was false. Our negotiations continued for months later during the campaign.maggie habermanHe says that there were, you know, a handful of these conversations that went on into 2016, when it was clear that Donald Trump was going to be the Republican nominee.archived recording (michael cohen)Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates. In conversations we had during the campaign, at the same time I was actively negotiating in Russia for him, he would look me in the eye and tell me, “There’s no Russian business,” and then go on to lie to the American people by saying the same thing. In his way, he was telling me to lie. So to be clear, Mr. Trump knew of and directed the Trump Moscow negotiations throughout the campaign and lied about it.michael barbaroCohen’s almost describing, in this moment, a code, where, if Trump is saying to him, there is no Russia project, it’s almost like saying, there’s no Russia project, right? You’re never going to say there’s a Russia project. It’s like he’s trying to explain a foreign language in which Donald Trump is communicating to him, you should probably lie about this, without having to say it.maggie habermanThat’s exactly right. And he said that in his testimony, made very clear that this is how Donald Trump talks. He sort of knows where the line is, and he doesn’t speak overtly. It is what former federal prosecutors have described as mob speak, the style that mafia bosses speak in to avoid crossing a legal line. And while Michael Cohen did not explicitly say that part, he did say that Donald Trump spoke in a code and that Michael Cohen understood that code.archived recording (michael cohen)He doesn’t give you questions. He doesn’t give you orders. He speaks in a code. And I understand the code, because I’ve been around him for a decade.michael barbaroMaggie, did it come as a surprise to you to hear Michael Cohen saying any of this? You’ve known both of these men for years. And you’ve known them as a unit. What was it like to hear Cohen saying these things about Donald Trump?maggie habermanEven knowing that this was coming, it was mind-blowing hearing Michael Cohen saying this in public. No one who has worked for Trump in recent years has gone on the record to say things like this. And it was staggering. And it was so at odds with the portrait of fealty that Michael Cohen had presented with reporters, with everyone, toward Donald Trump over a decade.michael barbaroMm-hmm.maggie habermanAnd remember, Donald Trump creates an eagerness in people around him to get something of a head pat from him, to get an encouragement, to get an attaboy. Cohen got very skilled at trying for that attaboy.michael barbaroAnd seemed to be kind of addicted to it.maggie habermanAnd seemed to be addicted to it, seemed to revel in it, clearly reveled in his proximity.archived recording (michael cohen)Over the past year or so, I have done some real soul-searching. And I see now that my ambition and the intoxication of Trump power had much to do with the bad decisions, in part, that I made.maggie habermanHe was involved in taking care of messes that Donald Trump wanted taken care of. He was willing to do those things. One of them was payoffs to women. And the notion that somebody who was so closely involved in that would be willing to discuss it publicly, not just behind closed doors with investigators, not just as prosecutors were bearing down on him, but freely, in public, in a hearing, under oath, was just breathtaking.michael barbaroThere’s a moment where Cohen says to the members of the committee —archived recording (michael cohen)The last time I appeared before Congress, I came to protect Mr. Trump. Today —michael barbaroToday, I’m here to tell you the truth —archived recording (michael cohen)I am here to tell the truth about Mr. Trump.michael barbaro— about Mr. Trump. As if to say, the spell has been broken. I’m out of that world now. And I kind of wonder if that’s really possible, but also how it happened.maggie habermanWell, I think it is really possible, because I think their break has been so incredibly clean, given what has happened to Michael Cohen. Remember, when the F.B.I. raided his hotel and apartment and office in April of 2018, he was still standing by Trump. That clearly has changed. We saw Republicans argue that the reason that changed for Michael Cohen was because he was facing charges of his own. And the president has certainly suggested that. Cohen has been utterly stripped of everything that he valued, his business, his law license. He has been humiliated publicly. He has been abandoned by a lot of friends, and by the president, and by the president’s circle. And so I do think that it is certainly a real split. I think that people are going to have to assess, looking at his testimony, whether they think it’s a real conversion, but it’s definitely a real break.archived recording (michael cohen)I am not a perfect man. I have done things I am not proud of. And I will live with the consequences of my actions for the rest of my life. But today, I get to decide the example that I set for my children and how I attempt to change how history will remember me. I may not be able to change the past, but I can do right by the American people here today. And I thank you for your attention. And I’m happy to answer the committee’s questions.archived recording (elijah cummings)Thank you very much, Mr. Cohen. I now recognize myself.michael barbaroSo then the questions begin from the committee members.maggie habermanRight.archived recording (elijah cummings)You said you brought some checks, is that right?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, sir.maggie habermanAnd first we have Cummings asking Cohen to elaborate on the details of these reimbursement checks that he got, that he brought with him.archived recording (elijah cummings)So let me make sure I understand. Donald Trump wrote you a check out of his personal account while he was serving as president of the United States of America to reimburse you for hush money payments to Ms. Clifford, is that what you are telling the American people today?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, Mr. Chairman.maggie habermanAnd it was among the more dramatic moments that we saw. Because Cummings is getting to the fact that the sitting president was part of this scheme that was, at minimum, sleazy and illicit, and at maximum could have some criminal exposure. And they were leaving nothing to doubt as to what Cohen was saying took place.archived recording (elijah cummings)Is there any doubt in your mind that President Trump knew exactly what he was paying for?archived recording (michael cohen)There is no doubt in my mind. And I truly believe there is no doubt in the minds of the people of the United States of America.archived recording (elijah cummings)With that I’ll yield to —maggie habermanJim Jordan, another ally of the president, quoted something that Michael Cohen once said to a reporter from The Daily Beast.archived recording (jim jordan)“I will make sure that you and I meet one day while we’re in the courthouse and I will take you for every penny you still don’t have.”maggie habermanAnd this has now become a famous anecdote, where he threatened a reporter who was pursuing a story about an old court claim from the divorce filing between Ivana Trump and Donald Trump, where she had alleged marital rape. And Cohen said —archived recording (jim jordan)“And I will come after your Daily Beast and everybody else that you possibly know. So I’m warning you — ”maggie haberman“So I’m warning you, tread very f-ing lightly” — it wasn’t f-ing.archived recording (jim jordan)“Because what I’m going to do to you is going to be f-ing disgusting, you understand me?”maggie habermanAnd he was then asked by Jim Jordan, “Mr. Cohen, who said that?”archived recording (jim jordan)Mr. Cohen, who said that?archived recording (michael cohen)I did.maggie habermanAnd it’s an incident that I think he would say that he really was doing for Trump and not for himself. But it was a way to sully his character and create a portrait of thuggishness.archived recording (jim jordan)And did you say that, Mr. Cohen, was that statement that I just read that you admitted to saying, did you do that to protect Donald Trump?archived recording (michael cohen)I did it to protect Mr. Trump, Donald Trump, Jr., Ivanka Trump and Eric Trump.michael barbaroBut I wonder, who does it look worse for, the person who did it, or the person on whose behalf it was done?maggie habermanRight. I understand that Jim Jordan is trying to muddy Michael Cohen with that. But I think for most people, they are going to look at that, and especially after the president takes to Twitter and suggests that people ought to be looking into Michael Cohen’s family, I think most people are still going to see that as looking worse for Trump, because Michael Cohen was doing this as Trump’s lawyer.michael barbaroSo while Republicans are largely avoiding talking about the president at all costs in this hearing, in focusing on sullying Cohen’s character and reputation, they may be actually sullying President Trump’s.maggie habermanCorrect. They were essentially trying to peel Cohen off from Trump. And what became clear as their efforts went on throughout the hearing is that that is impossible to do. When you have had somebody serve as a lawyer for Donald Trump, so identified with him publicly over 10 years, you can’t take a shot at Cohen and not end up having it ricochet onto Trump too.archived recordingSo we’ve established that you lie on your taxes, you lie to banks, and you have been convicted of lying to Congress. It seems to me that there’s not much that you won’t lie about when you stand to gain from it.michael barbaroAnd where do the questions go from here?maggie habermanSo —archived recordingEverything’s been made of your lies in the past. I’m concerned about your lies today.maggie habermanAfter that it became a, you know —archived recordingBut there’s no truth with you whatsoever.maggie haberman— one by one, down the line, Republicans suggesting that Michael Cohen was —archived recordingLiar, liar, pants on fire.maggie habermanReally in it for the fame.archived recordingIs your appearance here today motivated by your desire to remain in the spotlight for your personal benefit?archived recording (michael cohen)No, ma’am.maggie habermanOr he was really in it for the money. They asked him —archived recordingIs there a book deal coming or anything like that?archived recording (michael cohen)I have no book deal right now.maggie habermanOne after the other about prospective book deals or movie deals.archived recordingIsn’t it true you tried to sell a book about your time with President Trump, entitled “Trump Revolution: From the Tower to the White House, Understanding Donald J. Trump“?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, that happened —maggie habermanOr had he pitched a book of his own?michael barbaroAnd what did he say?maggie habermanHe said yes.archived recording (michael cohen)I have been contacted by many, including for television, a movie. If you want to tell me who you would like to play you, I’m more than happy to write the name down.michael barbaroAnd what about the Democrats?archived recording (elijah cummings)Mr. Raskin.archived recording (jamie raskin)Mr. Cohen, thank you for your composure today. Our colleagues are not upset because you lied to Congress for the president. They’re upset because you’ve stopped lying to Congress for the president.maggie habermanThe Democrats tried to keep it really mostly on Trump and the things that Michael Cohen did for Trump.archived recordingAnd nothing at the Trump Organization was ever done unless it was run through President Donald Trump, correct?archived recording (michael cohen)That’s 100 percent certain.archived recordingO.K.maggie habermanHe described, and it was really interesting, he described everybody as being solely devoted to protecting the brand and reputation of one man, Donald Trump. He said that nothing happened at the company unless Donald Trump was aware of it or signed off on it. He argued that Trump was a demanding and exacting and punishing boss. He described the entire effort as being about maximizing the gold-plated version of Donald Trump that we have all become very familiar with.archived recordingThere’s a recurring refrain in your testimony that says, and yet, I continued to work for him. But at some point you changed. What was the breaking point at which you decided to start telling the truth?archived recording (michael cohen)There are several factors — Helsinki, Charlottesville.maggie habermanHe went on this litany of moments that he said disgusted him. There were the president’s comments after Charlottesville, that it was, you know, various instance of discourteous behavior by the president, of untoward behavior toward citizens.archived recording (michael cohen)Watching the daily destruction of our civility to one another, putting up silly things like this.archived recordingOh, that’s silly.archived recording (michael cohen)Really unbecoming of Congress.maggie habermanHe clearly got angry. And then he sort of turned it back on Republicans and said to them, essentially —archived recording (michael cohen)It’s that sort of behavior that I’m responsible for. I’m responsible for your silliness. Because I did the same thing that you’re doing now, for 10 years. I protected Mr. Trump for 10 years.maggie habermanYou are what I was. You are all blindly following him. And there is a real risk to doing that, because you could end up like me someday.archived recording (michael cohen)And I can only warn people, the more people that follow Mr. Trump, as I did blindly, are going to suffer the same consequences that I’m suffering.maggie habermanIt was a gripping and captivating moment.michael barbaroRight, it was a sort of surprising level of self-awareness, and I guess also self-loathing too.maggie habermanIt was both. It was self-effacing. It was clearly uncomfortable. It was acknowledging that he is a deeply imperfect person who did imperfect things that he is not proud of, and he said a version of that earlier in the hearing. But it was really striking, because this is a comment that Republicans who opposed Donald Trump, and they’re not very many of them who are that vocal anymore, but that they have said repeatedly that the Republican Party has become a cult of personality, or just a cult. And that people just blindly follow along with what Donald Trump wants, whether it is wise or not, whether it is safe or not, and whether he is telling the truth or not. And that is what Cohen was getting at.archived recordingWhat do you want your children to know?archived recording (michael cohen)That I’m sorry for everything. And I’m sorry for the pain that I’ve caused them. And um — I wish I could go back in time.archived recordingThank you, I yield back.archived recording (elijah cummings)The gentlelady’s time has expired.michael barbaroMaggie, I wonder if you feel like you understand what’s motivating Michael Cohen throughout this hours-long hearing, to say what he’s saying, to concede what he’s conceding, to kind of humble himself the way he did. He’s been convicted of a crime. He’s headed to prison. He has been disbarred. What exactly is animating him at this point?maggie habermanI think a number of things are animating him. But I think among them is that he doesn’t want to be the leper of this story forever. He said months ago that he does not want to be the villain in the Trump story. And I think that’s how he feels. I think that he does not want to be remembered as this footnote in history. I think he’s going to prison. And I think he doesn’t have a whole lot left to lose. And I think that he would like to try to make people remember other things about him and tell a more nuanced tale.michael barbaroAnd so, what did this hearing, in your mind, achieve? How will this hearing be remembered in this larger story?maggie habermanI think this hearing is either going to be, on its own, just a breathtaking historical moment, the likes of which I don’t know if we’ll ever see again. But it was pretty striking to see. Or it is going to be the initial phases of a much broader, deeper governmental investigation by House Democrats into the Trump presidency, not just his own personal activities, but the activities of his government. And allowing Michael Cohen to have a setting where he talks about these things, and where he can be questioned, and where he is a key starting witness could be the first step in paving the way toward an impeachment process, if that is where Democrats go. If that ends up leading to something bigger, then Democrats will feel as if this was a key foundation for it. But it’s too early to say, I think.archived recording (michael cohen)I have some closing remarks I would like to say myself. Is this an appropriate time?archived recording (elijah cummings)You can do it now.archived recording (michael cohen)Thank you.michael barbaroMaggie, how does this one of hearing finally come to an end?maggie habermanSeven and a half hours after Michael Cohen first entered this room, sitting pretty patiently through all of these questions, not losing his temper, he was given an opportunity to speak not just to the committee members, but to the president.archived recording (michael cohen)In closing, I’d like to say directly to the president, we honor our veterans, even in the rain. You tell the truth, even when it doesn’t aggrandize you.maggie habermanAnd he used that opportunity to send a message to his former boss, saying, you don’t need to be this person.archived recording (michael cohen)You take responsibility for your own dirty deeds. You don’t use your power of your bully pulpit to destroy the credibility of those who speak out against you. You don’t separate families from one another or demonize those looking to America for a better life. You don’t vilify people based on the God they pray to. And you don’t cuddle up to our adversaries at the expense of our allies.maggie habermanAnd what he was saying to the president, you and I both know who you are, and he was saying to the members of the committee, you should believe me when I say that I understand this man.archived recording (michael cohen)So to those who support the president and his rhetoric, as I once did, I pray the country doesn’t make the same mistakes that I have made or pay the heavy price that my family and I are paying. And I thank you very much for this additional time, Chairman.archived recording (elijah cummings)Thank you very much.maggie habermanAnd when Michael Cohen was done, Elijah Cummings closed with this note of grace toward Michael Cohen.archived recording (elijah cummings)So you wonder whether people believe you. I don’t know. I don’t know whether they believe you. But the fact is that you’ve come, you have your head down. And this has got to be one of the hardest things that you could do.maggie habermanThat was the moment when Michael Cohen started crying. And he really hadn’t done that. He was clearly weeping.archived recording (elijah cummings)I know that you face a lot. I know that you are worried about your family. But this is a part of your destiny.maggie habermanAnd Cummings basically told Cohen, you are doing what you should be doing. You are heading toward the light in this moment.archived recording (elijah cummings)And hopefully, this portion of your destiny will lead to a better — a better Michael Cohen, a better Donald Trump, a better United States of America and a better world.michael barbaroMaggie, thank you very, very much. We appreciate it.maggie habermanMichael, thanks for having me.archived recording (elijah cummings)And we have got to get back to normal. With that, this meeting is adjourned. [MUSIC PLAYING]michael barbaroWe’ll be right back. Here’s what else you need to know today. On Wednesday, Pakistan said it had shot down two Indian fighter jets and captured a pilot from one of them in the latest escalation of hostilities between the two countries. The attack is heightening fears that the decades-old animosities between India and Pakistan could spiral into war. The latest episode began on February 14th, when jihadis operating out of Pakistan killed 40 Indian soldiers, prompting airstrikes from India, and now, a military response from Pakistan.archived recording[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] Bomb blast victims in [INAUDIBLE].michael barbaroIn a speech on Wednesday, the prime minister of Pakistan urged restraint, citing the two countries’ arsenals of nuclear weapons, saying quote, “All big wars have been due to miscalculation. My question to India is that given the weapons we have, can we afford miscalculation?”archived recording[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]michael barbaroAnd in North Carolina on Wednesday, a campaign operative at the center of allegations of election fraud, McCrae Dallas, was arrested and indicted over his handling of absentee ballots in 2016 and 2018. Dallas, who collected absentee ballots for Republican congressional candidate Mark Harris last fall, was charged with obstruction of justice and possession of absentee ballots. As a result of Dallas’ conduct, North Carolina will hold a new election for the 9th congressional district. Harris, who hired Dallas, has withdrawn from that race. [MUSIC PLAYING] That’s it for The Daily. I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.“I’m responsible for your silliness because I did the same thing that you’re doing now, for 10 years,” Mr. Cohen said. “I protected Mr. Trump for 10 years. I can only warn people — the more people that follow Mr. Trump as I did blindly, are going to suffer the same consequences that I’m suffering.”Yet Republicans on the panel from conservative districts have little to lose. Representatives Mark Meadows of North Carolina and Jim Jordan of Ohio, who harshly criticized Mr. Cohen as a liar headed to prison, appeared to play to the many faithful Trump voters at home, not to mention the president himself. They seemed to conclude that the best way to support Mr. Trump was by attacking Mr. Cohen’s credibility. They did so repeatedly, each lawmaker returning to the same accusation each time the chance arose: Why should we believe someone who is going to jail for lying to us before?“They accomplished what they wanted to,” David Axelrod, the former senior adviser to President Barack Obama, said of the Republicans on the committee. “The more that they polarize this and present it as a political exercise, the more everyone runs to the red corner and blue corner. And Trump sits there very popular with the base.”He added, “The Republicans are making a political decision about the cost of sticking with him.”Mr. Cohen’s appearance, broadcast live on cable networks, was a political milestone with echoes of the 1973 congressional testimony by John Dean, Richard M. Nixon’s White House counsel, whose admission that he discussed the Watergate cover-up with Nixon dozens of times helped drive the embattled president from office 14 months later.The power of Mr. Cohen’s testimony on Wednesday was less about the details in his answers, even though he revealed some new information that Democrats seized on as further proof of presidential misdeeds.Instead, what Mr. Cohen offered to the committee was a highly personal narrative and the kind of insider description largely missing from the legal documents of federal prosecutors.Mr. Cohen recounted the time, for example, that Mr. Trump mentioned that he was reimbursing him for hush payments Mr. Cohen made to a pornographic film actress even as he gave Mr. Cohen his first tour of the Oval Office.“He’s showing me all around and pointing to different paintings,” Mr. Cohen said during his opening statement, his words echoing through the hearing room. “And he says to me something to the effect of: ‘Don’t worry, Michael. Your January and February reimbursement checks are coming.’”Mr. Cohen also recounted an incident in a car when Mr. Trump called Mr. Cohen and then handed the phone to Melania Trump, his wife, so that his lawyer could falsely deny to Mrs. Trump that Mr. Trump had had an affair.“That was my job. Always stay on message. Always defend,” said Mr. Cohen, who once said he would take a bullet for Mr. Trump.It is unclear how Mr. Cohen’s testimony — alternately self-confident, exasperated, ashamed — will reverberate inside the two political parties, whose most partisan and committed voters view Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump through radically different prisms.Mr. Axelrod, who has spent much of his life helping to craft effective political messages, said the highly personal nature of Mr. Cohen’s testimony — including accusations that the president is a racist — may have detracted from the effectiveness.“His statement would have been more damning or damaging if it were slightly less personal. It seemed like a catharsis for him,” Mr. Axelrod said, noting the many gratuitous asides that Mr. Cohen seemed to relish in delivering for the cameras. “Maybe that is a product of his frustration.”Mr. Davis said he thought Mr. Cohen’s testimony would do little to change the political dynamic in the country.“A lot of this stuff is baked in the cake,” he said, talking about his colleagues in the Republican Party. “People accept him regardless of what some would call character flaws.”OpinionCaroline FredricksonAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byIf Trump is a Carter figure, there’s an obvious candidate to play the Gipper.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistFrom the beginning the presidency of Donald Trump has inspired analogies to the years of Jimmy Carter. Though personally the two men are ever so slightly different, they seem to occupy a similar space in the arc of political history — both outsiders who seized control of a divided, exhausted, yet still powerful political party, both men who tried to push their coalitions into a new ideological formation, both presidents who commanded legislative majorities but accomplished next to nothing with them.The term that seems to fit them both is “disjunctive,” from the categorizations of the Yale political scientist Stephen Skowronek. As Carter straddled the old New Deal-Great Society liberalism and the age of Reaganism and neoliberalism to come, so Trump’s presidency is at once the seeming last gasp for the Reagan coalition and a possible doorway into a future where socialism and right-wing populism contend for mastery instead.But if Trump is a Carter figure, trying and probably failing to build a new conservative majority inside the decaying institutions of the old one, then who is ready to play Reagan — the ideologically ambitious rival who wins the presidency and actually ushers in realignment?The correct answer might be nobody, because history doesn’t actually repeat or mirror or rhyme that simply, and because the decadence of American institutions threatens to make every president effectively disjunctive, keeping real realignment forever out of reach.But if you’re eagerly looking for the repetition or the rhyme, the 2020 primary campaign supplies an obvious figure: The Reagan to Trump’s Carter, the left-wing answer to the first movement-conservative president, can be only Bernard Sanders.If you doubt me, consider the parallels. Like Reagan following his attempt to primary Gerald Ford in 1976, Sanders is coming off a near-miss insurgent campaign against an embodiment of the party establishment, who then went to an excruciatingly narrow general election defeat.Like Reagan, Sanders is widely judged too old to be elected president; he is older than the Gipper, but just as Reagan’s age in 1980, 69, roughly matched American life expectancy at the time, so does Sanders’s age of 77 match life expectancy today.Like Reagan, Sanders is widely considered too extreme to be nominated, and certainly too extreme to win: Some Democrats fear that his nomination would give oxygen to a third-party centrist (with Howard Schultz ready for that role) as Reagan’s prompted John Anderson to run as a liberal Republican; some Republicans hope that a Sanders-led ticket would help the unpopular incumbent sneak to re-election.And like Reagan, Sanders comes by his supposed extremism honestly, having been ideologically left-wing for his entire public life, preaching socialism in the midst of the Reagan and Clinton eras just as Reagan made himself a spokesman for the Goldwaterite right in 1964, at its moment of epic political defeat.Of course the analogy is imperfect — don’t come at me with Bernie never governed a major state and Reagan was a New Deal Democrat and had a whole celebrity career before he went into politics, I’m well aware. But it’s an interesting echo, at the very least. And the parallels between the arguments used to dismiss Sanders and the Reagan-can’t-win assumptions of late-1970s pundits have kept me moderately bullish on the Vermont socialist’s 2020 chances.With Sanders officially in the race, the reasons for bullishness have grown. Whether he is technically the front-runner or not depends on how you assess the impressive poll numbers of the undeclared Joe Biden: Are those a real signifier that the Democratic Party’s moderate wing is ready to have the former vice president as its champion, or just an artifact of name recognition that will collapse once Biden starts having to answer for his record?But every normal metric makes Sanders a front-runner, and a stronger-looking candidate than all his declared rivals: His fund-raising is impressive, his crowds are big, and his early poll numbers give him both the expected 20-25 percent floor and room to grow. (In the weekend’s poll of Iowa, he would claim almost a third of Biden’s supporters if the ex-vice president decided not to run.) And he’s facing a field sufficiently large that the advantages of having a core of unshakable supporters are likely to be magnified.Meanwhile his campaign so far is suggestive of the ways — again, like Reagan — that a long history of ideological extremism can actually be helpful to a presidential candidate. Precisely because Sanders is a known quantity, because nobody doubts his commitment to left-wing policies, there may be less pressure on his campaign to embrace every idea floated by reporters or touted by activists. (It’s probably a good sign, for instance, that he was just attacked from the left by Julián Castro for insufficient zeal on reparations.)Nor does he need to adopt the strident tone of younger would-be revolutionaries or the politicians pandering to them to prove his socialist bona fides. As the conservative writer Ben Domenech noted recently, “the truth is that Sanders, despite his socialist label, seems to have a less harsh vision of politics than many others within the party.” Because his record is what it is, he won’t always have to be the most zealous candidate on stage — and like Reagan, he might even be able to promise certain kinds of moderation while keeping his base secure in his fundamentally revolutionary intentions.Of course this last possibility is just a hypothetical, and Sanders’s rumpled-professor style of socialism (and all those Soviet-friendly video clips lurking on YouTube) might ultimately inspire more backlash than Kamala Harris running hard to the left or Elizabeth Warren filling in all the policy details that Sanders leaves a little hazy. To argue that Sanders has qualities in common with Reagan is not to argue that he’s necessarily the most electable Democrat, or that in nominating him the party wouldn’t be taking a substantial risk — as Reagan really was a risky choice in 1980, and his victory by no means foreordained.But it is to argue that if you want a new president to be transformative — as, obviously, many people on the left desire — there are clear advantages in electing somebody whose entire career is associated with an ideological insurgency, and whose victory would shock the more adaptable sort of politician into understanding themselves as inhabitants of a new political reality, in which no matter what poll numbers show on any given issue, it’s taken for granted that the former world has passed away.You can’t get that change just by electing an ideologue as president; his actual presidency also has to be understood (as Reagan’s was, rightly, despite the vigorous critiques offered by a certain Vermont mayor at the time) as a success. And there are good reasons, conservative and otherwise, to doubt that a President Bernie would be successful enough to run on his own version of “morning in America” in 2024.But Bernie-ism is obviously where a large fraction of the Democratic Party wants to go, and with Trump weak and Carter-esque the chances that someone will get elected on a very left-wing platform are reasonably strong. In which the case for Sanders will remain simple and intuitive throughout the primaries to come: If we’re going to do this thing, let’s do it with the guy who’s actually spent years or decades planning for a realigning moment.Sanders 2020: Accept No Substitutes. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jonathan Martin and Sydney Ember[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.]DES MOINES — The sharp left turn in the Democratic Party and the rise of progressive presidential candidates are unnerving moderate Democrats who increasingly fear that the party could fritter away its chances of beating President Trump in 2020 by careening over a liberal cliff.Two months into the presidential campaign, the leading Democratic contenders have largely broken with consensus-driven politics and embraced leftist ideas on health care, taxes, the environment and Middle East policy that would fundamentally alter the economy, elements of foreign policy and ultimately remake American life.Led by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a democratic socialist who is the top candidate in the race at this early stage, many vocal leaders in the party are choosing to draw lessons from liberal victories in 2018 rather than the party’s breakthroughs in moderate suburban battlegrounds that delivered Democratic control of the House.These progressive Democrats risk playing into Mr. Trump’s hands — he has repeatedly branded them “socialists” — yet they argue that their ambitious agenda can inspire a voter revolt in 2020 that elects a left-wing president.“Those ideas that we talked about here in Iowa four years ago that seemed so radical at the time, remember that?” Mr. Sanders, returning to Iowa this week for the first time as a 2020 candidate, crowed on Thursday. “Shock of all shocks, those very same ideas are now supported not only by Democratic candidates for president but by Democratic candidates all across the board, from school board on up.”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]The sprint toward populism amounts to a rejection of the incremental and often-defensive brand of politics that has characterized the party’s approach to highly charged issues for 40 years. Yet when nearly half of voters indicate in polls that they will not support the president’s re-election, many moderates say the cautious strategy in 2018 that helped the party pick up 21 House seats that Mr. Trump carried two years earlier should be the playbook for next year.“What we saw in the midterms is a lot of people from the center and moderate part of the party really win and take back the House,” said Senator Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire, alluding to the careful and poll-tested campaigns many Democrats in Republican-leaning districts ran last year. “We need to make sure we’re being as pragmatic as we can.”This moderate wing of the party lacks an obvious standard-bearer. Former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, who would have run a centrist campaign, begged off this week; Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, a Midwestern progressive who favors a within-the-system style of pragmatic politics, also decided not to run. Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who is running, has presented herself as a centrist but has not yet gained traction.Should former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. enter the race, as his top advisers vow he soon will, he would have the best immediate shot at the moderate mantle. (And if he does not run, Democrats like former Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia or Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York might try to seek that role.)Mr. Biden’s candidacy would immediately thrust a fundamental dispute to the center of the Democratic race: Do Americans simply pine for a pre-Trump equilibrium, less chaos and more consensus, or do the yawning disparities of these times call out for a more transformational administration?[Read more: A “beat Trump” fervor is producing big turnouts for 2020 Democrats.]Mr. Sanders and other Democratic candidates, like Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, are plainly wagering that voters want more than a return to normalcy.“In 2016 Iowa helped begin the political revolution,” Mr. Sanders recalled on Saturday at a rally in Des Moines, referring to his near-victory in the state’s caucuses that year. “Now as we move to 2020 our job is to complete that revolution.”The liberal candidates have dominated the policy debate in the race so far. Ms. Warren proposed on Friday that the government break up big tech giants like Amazon and Facebook, the latest, and perhaps boldest, proposal to come from her campaign. And Mr. Sanders’s platform — “Medicare for all,” free college tuition and an aggressive plan to combat climate change — has grown in popularity, according to polls.Speaking at the University of Iowa as part of his campaign swing, Mr. Sanders also took aim at “establishment Democrats” and won his loudest and most sustained applause by pledging to push through his universal health care bill.Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren, along with a new generation of high-profile progressives like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, have emerged this winter as the clearest and most vocal arbiters of Democratic aspirations, if not the immediate congressional agenda.They are, at least, hastening the tectonic shifts taking place in the party. It was no accident that House Democrats modified a resolution targeting Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota — for her controversial claim that pro-Israel advocates carry an “allegiance” to a foreign country — after Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, other lawmakers of color and the party’s leading presidential hopefuls rebelled against singling out Ms. Omar. The episode marked a striking departure from the down-the-line support for Israel that has characterized the upper ranks of most Democratic primaries.Relying on wealthy donors has also been standard fare, and unremarkably so, in past White House races. But Mr. Sanders elevated the issue of campaign finance in his 2016 race, and his jeremiads against the billionaire class have all but made super PACs verboten in this race; he and Ms. Warren are refusing to hold high-dollar fund-raisers.Representative Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts, who won her seat after defeating an incumbent Democrat last year, conceded that the first months of 2019 had inflicted “growing pains” on Democrats, but she argued it was merely a necessary side effect in the party’s evolution.“After we build that muscle, we’re going to flex it,” Ms. Pressley said.Yet Mr. Biden, in speeches at home and abroad, has used much of the first part of this year pledging to restore the dignity he believes that the country has lost in the Trump years, promising a restoration rather than a revolution. And, as his supporters put it less subtly, his campaign would represent something else.“Overwhelmingly, the primary electorate of the Democratic Party wants to win,” Senator Chris Coons of Delaware said. He argued that Mr. Biden could “repair a lot of the ways in which our position in the world has been harmed” while offering a “hopeful, optimistic, positive” vision at home that would heal the divisions he said Mr. Trump has exacerbated.To such moderate Democrats, the most instructive recent election is not that of Mr. Trump in 2016 but rather the 2018 midterms, when many of the Democrats who won in battleground House districts and governor’s races were decidedly less confrontational than Mr. Sanders.“The overwhelming majority of seats we picked up were by center-left candidates representing more centrist-type districts,” said Representative Brendan Boyle of Pennsylvania, adding, “There’s still lots of folks on our side who are O.K. with compromise.”Other Democrats are even blunter, fretting that the party risks alienating the broad middle of the electorate at a moment Mr. Trump is making no attempt to appeal to such voters.“You live for the day in politics when the other guy is conceding the majority of the country,” said Larry Grisolano, a longtime Democratic strategist.Yet for many Democrats — especially younger voters who have largely known only Mr. Trump and another once-unlikely president for eight years before that — it is a hopelessly outdated notion that the party must be prudent about who it nominates and tread only within centrist confines on animating issues like climate change, racial justice and universal health care. These progressives have no more experience with a right-of-center, Reagan-era framework than their parents did with the New Deal.“We have had enough of the centrist, corporatist Democratic — the type of Democrat that my mom would have voted for back in the ’90s,” said Jake Peters, a 23-year-old Iowan and Sanders volunteer who drove two hours to see him speak in Council Bluffs this week. “We just don’t have patience for the platitudes.”And Mr. Trump has emboldened these young activists, heightening the urgency they feel about enacting a progressive agenda, and convincing them that Mr. Sanders’s blunt-force message about injustice is what’s needed to defeat the president. Chris Kivlahan, 22, who came to the Iowa City rally, described a Sanders presidency this way: “I think if it’s going to happen, now is the time and Trump is the candidate to be running against.”Democrats in Washington are seeing the tensions within the party firsthand as they try to balance an agenda that their newly elected moderates can support while also mollifying more liberal newcomers who are eager to impeach Mr. Trump and pursue far-reaching goals, such as the Green New Deal.“A lot of young people have come into a world where there was more diversity, more opportunities and where they had use of social media,” said Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland about the expectations of next-generation activists and lawmakers, some of whom serve on the oversight committee he chairs. “A guy like me, I had to fight to even get in the door.”To tell some of these younger Democrats that a uncompromising progressive platform may be unattainable, let alone who can and cannot be elected president, is difficult given Mr. Trump’s victory and the chasm they see between the scale of the problems they will confront and the policies in place today.And unlike many in the party’s pragmatic wing, these Democrats believe the recipe for success in the general election is not to nominate another seemingly safe candidate like Hillary Clinton, who was unable to galvanize the base and lost crucial votes to a Green Party nominee, but to put forward somebody who will energize reluctant voters.“Obviously we’ve shown that we’re at a place where we’re O.K. with nontraditional candidates,” said Riley Wilson, a 29-year-old Nebraskan who crossed the Missouri River to see Mr. Sanders. He added: “I think so many people just aren’t involved at all in politics, and I think he would be able to bring some of those people into the fold because they’ll feel like they have options that they haven’t had before, politically speaking.”And about the Republican strategy, led by Mr. Trump himself, to pin the “socialism” label on the Democrats in 2020?Senator Brian Schatz of Hawaii said it was mostly just his party’s elite “donor class” that had anything to fear from a sweeping, progressive agenda.Well, them and the arbiters of conventional political wisdom, he added.“What we’ve learned from last two presidential elections is that nobody knows anything,” Mr. Schatz said of the election of former President Barack Obama and Mr. Trump. “The people who write op-eds and stroke their chins and tell us how to win are the people who have been getting it wrong for almost two decades now.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin RooseIn 2016, after a torrent of targeted Facebook ads helped lift President Trump to a surprise victory, it seemed like the dawn of a new age of digital-first campaigning.But three years later, online advertising by political campaigns is still largely an afterthought, according to a new report by Tech for Campaigns, a group of technology workers who volunteer to help Democratic candidates with digital outreach.On average, campaigns in the 2018 midterm election cycle spent no more than 5 percent of their overall media budgets on digital advertising, according to the group’s report, which was compiled using political ad reports issued by Facebook and Google and publicly available spending data.Television ads and direct-mail campaigns remained the biggest expenses for campaigns, accounting for about half of all media spending, the group said.According to the report, Democrats outspent Republicans on digital ads in 2018, with the median Democratic House campaign spending 5 cents of every media dollar on digital ads, compared with 4 cents for every dollar spent by the median Republican campaign.In all, the group estimates, campaigns and outside groups spent $623 million on digital advertising before the midterm elections, with $284 million going toward Facebook ads and $90 million going to Google ads.Political campaigns’ hesitation contrasts sharply with the private sector’s approach to digital advertising, where corporate ad budgets have shifted quickly from traditional media to digital platforms. Companies in the United States will spend an estimated 54 cents of every advertising dollar online this year, according to the research firm eMarketer.Despite being a political lightning rod for candidates from both parties, Facebook and the company’s other services, like Instagram and Messenger, remain the favored platform for campaigns.“You have to be on Facebook and Instagram right now,” said Jessica Alter, a founder of Tech for Campaigns. “There’s no other choice. That’s where people are.”The group’s analysis led to several other notable findings. It showed that vertically oriented “selfie” videos shot by candidates in a loose, conversational style performed better on social media than slicker, more expensive videos adapted from TV commercials. On average, homespun videos cost 20 percent less to run on Facebook than more professional footage, even before factoring in production costs. (Facebook’s ad platform runs on an auction system that rewards more engaging ads by lowering their cost of distribution.)The group also found that negative video ads were 24 percent more efficient than positive ads for generating “ad recall” on Facebook, a measurement that estimates an ad’s effectiveness.And although campaigns often use social media to target younger voters, the group’s analysis found that older voters were much more likely to engage with digital ads. According to the group’s data, Facebook users 65 and older clicked on campaign ads roughly three times as often as younger users.Google appears to be the platform of choice for Republican campaigns and outside groups, which spent 48 percent of their digital advertising budgets on the platform in the four months leading up to the 2018 midterm elections, compared with just 25 percent for Democrats, according to the report. The gap narrowed since 2016, when state and federal Republican campaigns spent three times as much as Democratic campaigns on Google ads.Several Democrats running for president, including former Representative Beto O’Rourke, have poured large sums of money into digital advertising. But when it comes to buying digital ads, President Trump is still far ahead.Even as Mr. Trump attacks tech companies, saying they are politically biased against conservatives, his campaign has spent roughly $3.5 million on Facebook ads, and another $1 million on Google ads since December, according to an analysis by the Democratic consulting firm Bully Pulpit Interactive that was released this week.Mr. Trump’s spending on digital ads, which was first reported by Axios, is nearly double the amount spent by all of his Democratic challengers combined.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byPolitical MemoBy Jonathan MartinANKENY, Iowa — When Senator Kamala Harris came to Iowa last month shortly after entering the presidential race, she surprised some in her own party by breezily stating her support for a single-payer health care plan that would end private insurance.“Let’s eliminate all of that,” Ms. Harris said during a prime-time town hall event on CNN. “Let’s move on.”Her comments caused an immediate stir in the political world — and Republicans saw a chance to link her to a more extreme policy proposal than she perhaps intended. So when she returned to the state on Saturday, she had a much more precise answer ready when asked about universal health care.“In my vision of ‘Medicare for all,’ there would be a phasing in of it, and there would still be the option to have private insurance for the purposes of supplemental coverage,” she told a voter in suburban Des Moines whose question had actually been about how best to finance a single-payer system.Few other Democratic presidential hopefuls have enjoyed as splashy a start as Ms. Harris has: She drew 20,000 people to her formal campaign launch in Oakland, Calif.; raised $1.5 million in her first full day in the race; and has been talked about on social media more than any of her rivals, vaulting to the top tier of the rapidly growing field.But the candidate is still catching up to the campaign — and not just on health care policy.On issues ranging from breaking up big technology companies to the crisis in Venezuela to reparations for African-Americans — and even the allegations against the actor Jussie Smollett — Ms. Harris has not offered positions when asked, had to clarify her views and softened her previous comments.It is hardly unusual for candidates to stumble or appear ill at ease at the outset of the grueling political crucible that is a presidential campaign; even former President Barack Obama, who is remembered as a political phenom, struggled at times in the early weeks of the 2008 campaign.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]But the scrutiny has grown even more intense since that race, and the margin for error is minuscule in a field with so many candidates.With the growth of political news outlets, the rise of social media, and the global interest surrounding President Trump and his re-election, high-profile candidates do not have the luxury of honing their stump speeches before a few dozen voters, and even fewer reporters, in a cozy Concord living room.Instead, there have been hundreds of attendees at many of the early gatherings featuring the best-known candidates — as well as dozens of writers and photographers eager to capture every moment.“There is no on-ramp today,” said Stephanie Cutter, a top aide in John Kerry’s 2004 presidential campaign. “It’s instantaneous, which means it is harder for the candidates to work out their positions or decide their positions.”In this environment, it is perhaps not surprising that Ms. Harris’s first response on private health care echoed as loudly as it did. It was not just because of the implications for the nearly 60 percent of Americans who receive employer-based insurance — it was also because she made her remarks on live national television.Past campaigns did not feature made-for-cable-TV town halls more than a year before the first primary.Yet health care is not the only issue Ms. Harris, who was elected in 2016 to represent California in the Senate, has handled with uncertainty since she entered the race.Asked Saturday morning about the growing tensions in Venezuela, and specifically how to get aid into the country and whether America should consider using force there, she offered a brief answer with few particulars.“We need to take it very seriously,” Ms. Harris told reporters. “But I don’t know that at this point we need to, and I would not condone, military action at this point.”Later that afternoon, though, she offered a more detailed response on Twitter about what she called “a crisis” stemming from President Nicolás Maduro’s rule.“As President, I would immediately extend TPS status to Venezuelans,” she said, referring to temporary protected status for migrants. “It’s the right thing to do. America must show moral leadership in this hemisphere.”[Who’s in, who’s out, who’s still thinking: Check out our candidate tracker.]On reparations, Ms. Harris said, “Yes, I am,” in a radio interview this month when she was asked if she was in favor of what her interviewer called “some type of reparations” for black Americans affected by slavery.But when asked in another interview last week to be more specific, she highlighted her tax proposal for middle-class families, a more universal approach that is inconsistent with the definition of reparations.“I’m not going to sit here and say I’m going to do something that’s only going to benefit black people,” Ms. Harris told theGrio, a news website focused on African-American issues.In other instances, she appears uneasy committing to a policy at all, perhaps sensing a political hazard.On Saturday, for example, an Iowan asked Ms. Harris if she would favor eliminating the filibuster if Democrats controlled both chambers of Congress and the presidency, to more easily push through the party’s agenda. The urgent necessity of doing so has become an article of faith to many on the left.She initially joked that she wanted to change the subject, twice allowed that she was “conflicted” and did not offer a direct answer. “Sorry I can’t give you more than that right now,” she told the voter.Similarly, when a reporter asked Ms. Harris last month on her first campaign trip to South Carolina about Senator Elizabeth Warren’s suggestion that technology giants like Amazon should be subject to antitrust laws, the California senator sidestepped the issue, which is a delicate matter in her state. “I don’t know enough about what she’s proposing, but I’m happy to follow up with you,” Ms. Harris said twice.At a voter forum in Des Moines on Saturday, Ms. Harris said she did not want to be pegged in any fixed ideological category — a posture that can frustrate some progressive Democrats.“That was evasive,” said Ed Fallon, a liberal Iowa activist who attended the forum. “It’s clear that she wasn’t being clear.”Her how-will-it-play hesitation is also frustrating to some more pragmatic Democrats who believe the candidates should not try to meet some imagined standard of ideological orthodoxy.“They’re playing too assiduously to the critics of Twitter,” said Paul Begala, the longtime Democratic strategist. “And the truth is that doesn’t matter.”Mr. Begala said party activists were overwhelmingly fixated on defeating Mr. Trump and were unlikely to penalize a candidate if they think he or she is up to that job.“The scrutiny is far more harsh this time, but the voters are much more forgiving if they think you can win,” he said.Yet her response to the Smollett case may only reinforce her instinct for caution.Immediately after the actor, a gay African-American, said he had been attacked in Chicago by a pair of Trump supporters in what he described as a hate crime, Ms. Harris wrote on Twitter that the incident represented “an attempted modern day lynching.”But after the Chicago police last week accused Mr. Smollett of staging the attack and charged him with filing a false police report, Ms. Harris was caught flat-footed. Reminded by a reporter that she had called the case a “modern day lynching,” she appeared to look back toward her aides before offering a halting answer.“I think the facts are still unfolding,” she said. “I’m very concerned about obviously the initial allegation that he made about what might have happened.”The good news for Ms. Harris and all the Democratic candidates, Ms. Cutter said, is that “it’s O.K. not to have a position today” on some issues.“Voters just need to know you’re thinking about issues and are intellectually curious,” she said.That kind of leeway, she said, will disappear in just over three months, when candidates gather for the first Democratic debate.“When they have to stand onstage next to each other and debate each other, platitudes aren’t going to win the day,” said Ms. Cutter.Astead W. Herndon contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveSYDNEY, Australia — Australia has canceled the residency of a wealthy political donor tied to the Chinese government, officials confirmed Wednesday, denying his citizenship application and stranding him overseas in a widening conflict with Beijing over its efforts to influence Australian politics.The donor, Huang Xiangmo, is a successful developer who has lived in Sydney since 2011 and who has donated millions of dollars across the Australian political spectrum in recent years. He has done so while leading organizations tied to the United Front Work Department, an arm of the Chinese Communist Party that promotes Chinese foreign policy abroad and works with various groups inside China.Mr. Huang’s office did not respond to requests for comment, and his whereabouts were unknown.He has previously rejected claims that his political donations were linked to Beijing. But experts said that keeping him out of Australia reflected deepening global skepticism about China — and a tougher stance toward its alleged proxies.“It’s a very punitive measure,” said Euan Graham, executive director of La Trobe Asia, a regional research and engagement arm of La Trobe University in Melbourne. “It’s a signal of the pushback against foreign interference — the government remains committed to that despite whatever softer line there may have been in the official diplomatic relationship.”Some experts cautioned that it was still not clear exactly why Mr. Huang was turned down for citizenship; his permanent residency was canceled for a range of reasons, including character grounds, according to The Sydney Morning Herald, which first reported the citizenship rejection.What is clear is that Mr. Huang, a billionaire property developer who founded Yuhu Group Australia in 2012, has become the most visible target of concern and debate about Chinese influence in Australian politics.His political gifts totaling at least 2.7 million Australian dollars, or about $1.95 million, have gone to both major parties. And while the contributions were perfectly legal (Australia lacks a ban on foreign donations), his efforts have been increasingly viewed with suspicion.Records shows that between 2014 and 2016, Mr. Huang made more than a dozen large donations, including $50,000 to the Liberal Party of Victoria and $55,000 paid to the opposition Labor Party for a seat at a boardroom lunch with the party’s leader, Bill Shorten.He was also at the center of a political scandal involving a young Labor Party senator, Sam Dastyari, an aggressive fund-raiser who resigned in 2017 after he made comments at a news conference defending China’s aggressive military posture in the South China Sea — comments that contradicted his own party’s opposition to China’s actions there.He was invited to the event by Mr. Huang, who stood by him as he spoke.Mr. Huang also financed a think tank, the Australia-China Relations Institute, that was run by Bob Carr, a reliably pro-China voice who was Australia’s foreign minister from 2012 to 2013.And Mr. Huang’s ties to organizations affiliated with Beijing are well documented. He has led several organizations that work closely with the Chinese Consulate, including the Australian Council for the Promotion of the Peaceful Reunification of China, which experts describe as a United Front group aiming to influence foreign policy abroad and the ethnic Chinese diaspora.“Australia has woken up to the threat posed by authoritarian states and their attempts to influence and undermine our democratic institutions,” said Andrew Hastie, a Liberal Party lawmaker who is chairman of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security. “We are pivoting to protect our sovereignty,” he said.The process, however, is far from over. Mr. Huang has the right to appeal the decision by Australia’s Home Affairs Department, and there will be challenging questions ahead about whether his family can stay in Australia, and about his assets.His companies own and manage several properties across Australia worth tens of millions of dollars.The rejection also comes at an uncertain time in Australian-Chinese relations. Last month, the Chinese authorities detained a well-known writer and former Chinese official with Australian citizenship, Yang Hengjun, after he flew to China from New York.He is still being held on charges of “endangering national security,” making him the third foreigner to have been detained on that ominous charge since December.In a few weeks, on March 1, Australia’s new espionage and foreign interference laws will also take effect, suggesting to some that this will be the first of several actions to disclose and resist Beijing’s more covert attempts to shape politics.“There may be a sense of trying to get things in a row,” said Mr. Graham. “This is obviously a big signal that underlines the commitment to doing that.”Jamie Tarabay and Isabella Kwai contributed reporting from Sydney.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catherine Porter and Ian AustenTORONTO — Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada promised a fresh approach to politics, one that was based on openness, decency and liberalism.Now he is embroiled in a scandal involving accusations of back-room deal-making and bullying tactics, all to support a Canadian company accused of bribing the Libyan government when it was run by the dictator Muammar el-Qaddafi.Canadian newspapers are filled with outrage and opposition parties are calling for a resignation. Elections are still seven months away, but some members of Mr. Trudeau’s own governing party fear the scandal has armed opposition parties with rich campaign fodder against its leader, who promised “sunny ways” in politics.“This is a huge, huge blow to Justin Trudeau’s personal brand and Justin Trudeau’s promise of doing politics differently,” said Shachi Kurl, the executive director of the Angus Reid Institute, a nonprofit polling firm based in Vancouver.She added: “That shine is not dented or scratched. It’s been completely scuffed.”The case revolves around accusations that SNC-Lavalin, a multinational engineering company based in Quebec, paid 47.7 million Canadian dollars in bribes to officials in Libya to win contracts there, and defrauded the Libyan government and its agencies of 129.8 million Canadian dollars.The prime minister and his aides have been accused of pressuring his justice minister at the time, Jody Wilson-Raybould, to drop the criminal inquiry against the company because a conviction could potentially cost thousands of jobs in Canada, and diminish his Liberal Party’s political fortunes.She did not drop the inquiry, and in January was demoted to a lesser position in the cabinet, a reassignment that many of Mr. Trudeau’s critics believe was punishment for letting the case continue. Ms. Wilson-Raybould later quit that post.[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]The scandal has been building slowly over weeks and already led to the resignation of Mr. Trudeau’s top political aide, and to Parliament’s ethics commissioner opening an investigation into potential conflicts of interest.And on Wednesday, Ms. Wilson-Raybould appeared before the House of Commons justice committee, breaking weeks of silence.On live television, she calmly described the demands and “veiled threats” she received over four months from Mr. Trudeau’s office to accept a settlement in the criminal case.“There was a concerted and sustained effort to politically influence my role as attorney general,” said Ms. Wilson-Raybould, who, as the first Indigenous person to hold the prestigious post of justice minister and the only Indigenous person in Mr. Trudeau’s cabinet, was a powerful symbol of his government’s commitment to both women and Indigenous rights.Mr. Trudeau has denied that he or anyone else acted inappropriately in their dealings with Ms. Wilson-Raybould. He has stressed that he has been trying to protect Canadian jobs, as “Canadians expect their government” to do, while respecting the country’s laws and independence of the judiciary.But so much of politics is appearances, and the optics are terrible — of a self-described feminist, who had promised a new, open and transparent way of governing, sending aides described as his henchmen to gang up on an Indigenous woman in efforts to bend her will.Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s appointment to justice minister had seemed proof to many that Mr. Trudeau was serious about correcting the country’s wrongs against its Indigenous population and treating Indigenous people as respected partners in the country, as he had promised during the election.Now, that legacy is in question because of Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s demotion to the post of veterans affairs minister, which she quit last month.“Reconciliation also means respecting the voices of Indigenous people,” said Sheila North, a former Indigenous leader in northern Manitoba. “This whole display has shown, in the end, money and power is more important than building reconciliation.”In her testimony, Ms. Wilson-Raybould, who is a former high-ranking leader of Indigenous groups on Canada’s west coast, reminded the country that its government had a history of ignoring the law when it came to Indigenous people, and said she had witnessed the “negative impacts” of that firsthand.“I come from a long line of matriarchs and I am a truth teller in accordance with the laws and traditions of our Big House,” she said, referring to her Kwakwaka’wakw nation’s center of governance and cultural activities. “This is who I am and who I will always be.”Many of Mr. Trudeau’s opponents are saying that the entire controversy proves that Mr. Trudeau, who appointed the country’s first gender-balanced cabinet, is a “fake feminist” who uses women instead of supporting them.“Why are not all women in that caucus, and their so-called feminist allies, calling for the prime minister’s resignation?” said Michelle Rempel, a Conservative member of Parliament in the House of Commons.The leader of the Conservative opposition, Andrew Scheer, has asked the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to open an obstruction of justice investigation.In her testimony, Ms. Wilson-Raybould described the pressure she received as “inappropriate,” but said — twice — that it was not illegal.The pressure, she said, came in the form of 10 meetings, 10 conversations and a series of emails about the criminal case with senior government officials.Perhaps the most troubling of the meetings she described was one with Mr. Trudeau himself, who asked her to “find a solution here for SNC,” stating that “there would be many jobs lost and that SNC will move from Montreal,” she said.There was a provincial election coming up, the prime minister reminded her during that meeting, she said, and he personally had been elected from that area.But what many legal experts found most problematic about her testimony was the suggestion that the prime minister and his top aides brought up political concerns.Errol Mendes, a law professor at University of Ottawa who studies the role of the attorney general, said that while it was legitimate for the prime minister and others to raise the job losses, when they raised political issues, “that’s straying into absolutely inappropriate pressure.”Though the country seems stunned by the sudden darkening of its prime minister’s image, the story is not finished.Mr. Trudeau’s former principal secretary, Gerald Butts, who quit over this scandal, has asked to publicly speak before the judicial committee. And the country is waiting to see if Mr. Trudeau himself, as well as others called out by Ms. Wilson-Raybould, will give a full accounting.“People who are predicting the demise of Justin Trudeau or the Liberals are not making safe bets,” said Emmett Macfarlane, a professor of political science at the University of Waterloo. Much depends on what happens over the next few months and whether the prime minister’s office is able to ward off a full-blown public inquiry into the scandal.“If the election was next month, it would probably be devastating and it would directly shape the campaign,” Professor Macfarlane said. “It’s hard to say if this will be on Canadians’ minds in August or September.”Meanwhile, Mr. Trudeau has seven months to regain what he can of his reputation and hope the scandal fades from voters’ minds by the time they return to the polls.“He has to stop any pretense and veneer that he’s the ‘sunny ways’ guy or Mr. Clean,” said Ms. Kurl, the executive director of the nonprofit polling firm.She added, “Now he’ll have to compete in the old-style politics.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated when Jody Wilson-Raybould resigned as veterans affairs minister. She resigned on Feb. 12, not the last week of February.Catherine Porter reported from Toronto, and Ian Austen from Ottawa.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Raphael MinderEL EJIDO, Spain — Wedged between the mountains and the Mediterranean Sea, the Almería province of southern Spain was once a setting for the spaghetti westerns that turned Clint Eastwood into a star.These days, shimmering miles of plastic greenhouses stretch to the horizon, incubating the tomatoes, peppers and other produce that have transformed this once impoverished region into a farming hub.But the most important seed growing here along Spain’s southern coast may be that of Vox, Spain’s first far-right party since the end of the Franco dictatorship in 1975.With Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez’s decision on Friday to call for new elections, Vox, which got its election breakthrough in El Ejido, will now have a chance to test its appeal on a national stage. Its entry will break a taboo for Spain, which until now has resisted the pull of far-right nationalism alive in much of Europe.In regional elections last December in Andalusia, where Almería is located, Vox won 11 percent of the vote. In El Ejido, a local municipality of about 90,000, it came out on top with almost 30 percent.What animates Vox, its supporters say, is an urge to reclaim and defend Spanish nationalism in the face of perceived threats to the country’s integrity.For Vox, that includes migration, though this region is heavily dependent on seasonal labor, and the independence drive in Catalonia, seen as an attempt by the affluent northeastern region to turn its back on poorer southern Spaniards.“Illegal migration is a problem for the whole of Spain,” said Juan Francisco Rojas, the president of Vox in Almería, where about 14,000 migrants arrived from Africa last year as the populist government in Italy tightened its borders.As for Catalan secessionism, he said, “Anything that affects one part of our territory also impacts the rest of Spain, which is why Vox wants to guarantee nobody can threaten our unity.”While much of the country favors a hard line toward Catalonia, Spain has been relatively tolerant on the issue of migration.Just how far Vox’s message will carry beyond the coastal south, then, is unclear. But the party’s emergence in a country with a long chapter of dictatorship under Francisco Franco has unsettled many.Santiago Abascal, the founder of Vox, has quickly found like-minded company in Europe, joining the French nationalist Marine Le Pen on her presidential campaign in 2017. Vox has also sought advice from Stephen K. Bannon, the former chief strategist of President Trump.In fact, the party also wants to follow Mr. Trump’s example and erect walls around two Spanish enclaves in North Africa, to block migrants.“If you look at Trump in America or Bolsonaro in Brazil, you see that people now want politicians who are tough enough to do what they promise,” said Juan Carlos Perez Carreño, the owner of a fleet of refrigerated trucks that transport produce picked in the greenhouses, referring to Jair Bolsonaro, the right-wing leader of Brazil.“The problem with those who say horrible things about Vox is that they preach democracy, but only when their favorite candidates get elected,” he added.Vox has not officially taken up the Fascist symbols often used by much smaller groups in Spain, which have become more visible as the Catalonia dispute simmers.Instead, Vox has promised to abolish a 2007 “law of historical memory,” which calls for the removal of Francoist symbols from public places. The party considers itself a defender of Catholic values and says it would close mosques suspected of radical preaching.So far, Spain’s established conservative parties, far from shunning Vox, have indicated they will partner with it if needed.After Andalusia’s election, Vox helped form a regional right-wing coalition government — a role of kingmaker that it could repeat at a national level in Spain’s fractured politics.This month, when tens of thousands of right-wing protesters gathered in Madrid to demand that the replacement of Mr. Sánchez, a Socialist, the Vox founder, Mr. Abascal, occupied the front row, alongside the leaders of the Popular Party and Ciudadanos.In fact, Mr. Abascal is hoping to take votes away from the conservative Popular Party, which he abandoned in 2013 to form Vox.Andalusia showcased the decline of mainstream parties, left and right, as the election ousted the Socialists from power for the first time in four decades.Pepe Moreno, 67, who has turned his home into a museum for his collection of vintage automobiles, said he had always voted for the Popular Party, but considered switching to Vox, mainly over concerns about corruption. But migration was also on his mind.“I’m fine with letting some migrants in,” he said, “but not with an open-door policy that means nobody even knows who gets into Spain.”Elsewhere, at the Fuente Nueva secondary school, Javier Adolfo Iglesias, a teacher, started his class by arguing that “xenophobia cannot be the reason for Vox, because I’ve never seen it in my classroom, nor in my local bar.”Still, when his 15 students were asked whether they would vote for Vox, five raised their hands, prompting a debate about the lack of integration among adolescents of different backgrounds.Many migrants live apart, next door to the greenhouses, in smaller towns like Las Norias de Dazas, which has been “taken over by the Moors,” remarked Fernando Fuentes, a bar owner.“I’ve got the last truly Spanish establishment,” along his street, claimed Mr. Fuentes, who keeps a Franco-era flag hanging in the back room and spoke with some patrons about how migrants bring infectious diseases.In the early mornings, migrants gather at roundabouts to seek day-labor on farms. Ibrahim Hantar, 30, picks tomatoes and lives in a makeshift shelter with four other migrants from Morocco.They share two mattresses and a set of dirty blankets, and cooked two pieces of chicken for their dinner on a portable gas stove.Mr. Hantar said his problem was that local farmers wanted him to pay about 3,000 euros to help him get work documentation.“I’ve got no problem with Spanish people, but if you don’t pay them, you get no papers,” he said.El Ejido witnessed a rare episode of racial violence in Spain, in 2000, when residents launched attacks against migrants whom they blamed for a series of murders, forcing Spanish riot police to intervene.But no such confrontation has occurred recently, according to officials, even as the migrant population has grown.“Thanks probably to Catalonia, Vox has managed to tap into a moment of nationalist exaltation in which the most vulnerable also always become scapegoats,” said Juan Miralles, the president of Almería Acoge, a nongovernmental organization that helps migrants.In the absence of solid official statistics, Mr. Miralles said far-right factions had used social media to spread false figures about rising crime and disease.Sitting with other members of the local Muslim community over a couscous dinner in a mosque, Issam Mehdaj, who distributes water to local households, sounded unworried about Vox’s emergence.“Whatever Vox or any other party says,” he shrugged, “people need us to come and work here.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Javier C. HernándezBEIJING — China’s ruling Communist Party expelled the former chief of Interpol on Wednesday, accusing him of abusing his power to finance an extravagant lifestyle and committing “serious” violations of the law.The disappearance of the former Interpol chief, Meng Hongwei, during a trip to China last fall drew global attention and highlighted the perils of being on the wrong side of China’s opaque, highly politicized legal system.The Chinese authorities later said he had been placed under investigation, but the move damaged China’s reputation and raised doubts about President Xi Jinping’s efforts to expand China’s global presence.Mr. Meng, 65, the first Chinese citizen to lead Interpol, has not been heard from since.The harsh punishment of Mr. Meng is probably an effort by Mr. Xi, China’s most powerful leader since Mao, to signal that political loyalty is paramount, experts said.“This shows they’re much more insecure about their own domestic issues than sometimes we think,” said Julian G. Ku, a Hofstra University professor who studies China’s relationship with international law.The announcement — a rare official update on Mr. Meng since his disappearance in October — came as Mr. Xi was back in Beijing after concluding a visit this week to France, where he met with President Emmanuel Macron.Mr. Meng’s wife, Grace Meng, had appealed to Mr. Macron in recent days to raise her husband’s case with Mr. Xi and to demand answers about his whereabouts, according to Agence France-Presse.Since coming to power in 2012, Mr. Xi has led a wide-ranging campaign against corruption and perceived political disloyalty that has ensnared thousands of people, including many high-profile officials.The party’s anticorruption agency, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, said in a statement Wednesday that Mr. Meng had abused his power for personal gain. It said that he “recklessly squandered state capital and property to satisfy his family’s extravagant lifestyle.” The agency accused Mr. Meng of routinely ignoring decisions by top party leaders.“His family tradition is corrupted,” the statement said. “His view on power is twisted.”Ms. Meng, the former official’s wife, has said that she has not heard from her husband since late September, when he sent a phone message with an emoji of a knife as he left on a trip to China, which she interpreted as a sign of danger. Ms. Meng is seeking asylum in France.In the statement on Wednesday, the anticorruption agency also accused Mr. Meng of encouraging his wife to use his power and prestige for personal benefit.Mr. Meng, a former vice minister of security who was appointed to lead Interpol in 2016, will now probably face a trial on corruption charges.Jude Blanchette, a political analyst who is a senior adviser and China head at Crumpton Group, said Mr. Xi’s anticorruption drive would very likely become a permanent part of China’s political system. The campaign has given Mr. Xi a way to sideline political enemies while also going after venal officials at all levels of government.“We’re now glimpsing how the Chinese Communist Party’s internal political culture often clashes with global norms and institutions,” Mr. Blanchette said.Follow Javier C. Hernández on Twitter: @HernandezJavier.Albee Zhang contributed research from Beijing.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byPrime Minister Narendra Modi and his party seem to be exploiting the deaths of paramilitary soldiers in a terrorist attack for political gains ahead of national elections.By Hartosh Singh BalMr. Bal is a journalist.On Feb. 14, a 19-year-old drove a vehicle filled with explosives into a convoy of Indian paramilitary forces in Indian-administered Kashmir and killed 49 soldiers. Jaish-e-Muhammad, or the Army of Muhammad, a Pakistan-based terrorist group, claimed responsibility for the attack.Over the past five years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party has governed India and been part of the local government in Kashmir as well, thus controlling India’s policy approaches to the disputed, conflict-torn region. Mr. Modi embraced a militaristic approach and shunned a political process involving dialogue with the separatists in Kashmir. Consequently, the number of civilian and security personnel killed in the region have increased, and a growing number of young Kashmiris, like Adil Dar, the 19-year-old suicide bomber, joined militant groups.These are inconvenient facts for Mr. Modi, who has continually attacked India’s opposition parties for being soft on terror and compromising national security. As the deaths of the soldiers come three months before a general election, an honest evaluation of Mr. Modi’s failed policy should have led to him to being held accountable.Such questions, naturally, receded into the background in the immediate aftermath of the Kashmir bombing, in a national outpouring of grief. Before those pertinent questions would return to the national conversation, Mr. Modi spun the bad news to his advantage by turning the grief into an emotive and prolonged commemoration of the deaths of the soldiers.As Indian television networks followed the coffins of the slain troops draped in the Indian flag on their final journey home, Mr. Modi’s party directed its senior leaders to attend the cremations, which were telecast live. The funerals became occasions for patriotic avowals, some genuine, some orchestrated, as politicians sought to ensure they were part of the frame.Mr. Modi ratcheted up the rhetoric against Pakistan and suggested that India would retaliate militarily. “Security forces have been given complete freedom, the blood of the people is boiling,” he said. On social media and television networks, retired military generals, such as G.D. Bakshi, echoed Mr. Modi’s words and described the bombing in Kashmir as an act of war. “They started it but we will finish it,” he said.The venerable Cricket Club of India, a colonial institution founded in 1933, decided to do its part by draping a portrait of Pakistan’s prime minister, Imran Khan, which had been put up to honor his cricketing feats in the last century. The mourning took on a more sinister note as gangs of young men started parading the streets of many Indian cities, including New Delhi, shouting slogans directed at Pakistan and “anti-nationals” — the preferred term of the Hindu nationalists for perceived foes and undesirables ranging from liberals to Muslims.Several Hindu nationalist affiliates of Mr. Modi’s party led a campaign that targeted students from Kashmir studying in educational institutions across India. They managed to extract promises from a few colleges that they would not admit Kashmiri students. The tone and tenor of the marches and the threats to Kashmiri students were not lost even on Mr. Modi’s own allies. In an editorial in its party newspaper, Shiv Sena, the Mumbai-based Hindu nationalist party, cautioned the prime minister that “there were political allegations that Prime Minister Narendra Modi could wage a small-scale war to win elections …. The rulers should not behave in a manner that these allegations gain credence.”Mr. Modi’s political use of the deaths of “martyrs” is not new to India, but we haven’t seen it at such a scale since India and Pakistan fought a limited war over Kashmir in 1999. In the past two decades, Indian security forces have periodically been targets of violent insurgent attacks, some causing even larger numbers of casualties, but the grief has run its normal course.Mr. Modi and his party seem to be working on a template of exploiting calamitous deaths that they have used before. In February 2002, soon after he took over as chief minister of the western Indian state of Gujarat, a train carrying Hindu religious volunteers was allegedly set on fire in the town of Godhra by a group of Muslims. Fifty-nine people died. Mr. Modi ensured the bodies of the dead were taken to the Ahmedabad, the largest city in the state, and paraded through the city. Violence broke out soon after. Hindu mobs fueled by incendiary rhetoric from leaders of organizations affiliated with the Bharatiya Janata Party, targeted homes and businesses owned by Muslims. Over a thousand people were killed, over 700 of them Muslims.In his campaign for the state elections held a few months after the violence, Mr. Modi barely disguised his hatred and contempt for the Muslim minority, describing them as a demographic threat to India and seeking to connect them with Pakistan. The insurgency in Kashmir, which is the only Muslim majority state in the country, is often invoked in the same fashion by Mr. Modi's Hindu nationalist party.Mr. Modi is at his political best with an electoral campaign run on sectarian and polarizing themes. Before the attack in Kashmir, he was facing an opposition campaign dominated by questions about unemployment being the highest in 45 years and distress in Indian villages. His party had already lost state elections in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, partly as a result of an acute farm crisis in India.This was the campaign that the Congress Party and other opposition parties were looking to fight; this is the campaign that Mr. Modi is seeking to avoid with the emotive call of martyrdom. Ironically, a vast majority of the soldiers who died were drawn from India’s lower and middle castes with largely rural backgrounds, a far cry from the upper-caste, urban Hindu voters who are Mr. Modi’s most ardent and hawkish supporters.What has largely gone unspoken in the aftermath of the Kashmir attack is that the C.R.P.F., the paramilitary force these young men joined, is heavily understaffed and underequipped, a stark contrast to Mr. Modi’s bluster on national security.In 1999, I was working as a reporter in the northern state of Punjab. I covered the cremations of soldiers who had died in Kargil in the war between India and Pakistan. Each body draped in the Indian flag was accompanied by a soldier from the fallen man’s unit. Those men were angry with the government and willing to speak on record with their names and ranks about being been sent to battle in the icy Himalayan mountains without proper equipment to shield them from the cold and the snow. When I wrote their stories, my editors refused to publish them and argued that it was not the time to report such things because they were damaging to the “national interest.”In the rhetoric of martyrdom that prevails in Mr. Modi’s India, editors across the country are making similar calls and leaving out inconvenient facts and questions. It may or may not be in the national interest, but it certainly is in Mr. Modi’s interest.Hartosh Singh Bal, the author of “Waters Close Over Us: A Journey Along the Narmada,” is the political editor of The Caravan magazine.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe most successful economic system shouldn’t be a dirty word.By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistJohn Hickenlooper ought to be a poster child for American capitalism. After being laid off from his job as a geologist during the oil bust of the 1980s, he and his business partners turned an empty warehouse into a thriving brewery. It launched his political career, first as a problem-solving two-term mayor of Denver, then as a pragmatic two-term governor of Colorado, and now as a centrist candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination.Yet there he was on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” squirming in his seat as Joe Scarborough asked if he would call himself “a proud capitalist.” Hickenlooper protested the divisiveness of labels. He refused to reject the term “socialism.” He tried, like a vegetarian who still wants his bacon, to have it both ways: “There are parts of socialism, parts of capitalism, in everything.”But Hickenlooper did allow this: “We worked 70, 80, 90 hours a week to build the business; and we worked with the other business owners in [Lower Downtown Denver] to help them build their business. Is that capitalism? I guess.”He guessed right.Today, despite Friday’s disappointing jobs report, unemployment in the United States clocks in at a rock-bottom 3.8 percent. Wage growth, at 3.4 percent, is at a 10-year high. The median household income is as high as it has ever been. The United States is the world’s most competitive economy, as well as the wealthiest once you exclude small countries like Qatar. None of this should be difficult to celebrate. An economy in which private property is protected, private enterprise is rewarded, markets set prices and profits provide incentives will, over time, generate more wealth, innovation and charity — and distribute each far more widely — than any form of central planning. This is not a theory. It’s as true in Nordic countries like Denmark (often mislabeled “socialist”) as it is in hyper-capitalist Singapore. It’s the empirically verifiable conclusion from the 20th century’s bitter contest between capitalist and socialist states. It’s not a race we should have to run twice.Nor should it be hard for someone like Hickenlooper to acknowledge as much — while also insisting on the distinction between unrestrained and regulated capitalism, market prices and moral values. One of the reasons why the right-wing charge of “socialism” against the Democratic Party rarely stuck was that it was generally untrue. To smooth the edges of capitalism, even to save it from itself, doesn’t mean to disdain and disavow it. There’s a difference between taming a horse and shooting it.Until about, oh, a year ago, few Democrats would have disagreed. Not anymore. Moderate Democrats are by no means an endangered species, but increasingly they act like a hunted one. Watching Hickenlooper, you could read his mind as if it were a chyron at the foot of the screen. Don’t say “proud capitalist,” John. Don’t say it. Twitter will kill me if I do. Death by Twitter mob — or pre-emptive surrender to it — is how politics is largely conducted these days.Is this good politics? I doubt it. As Geoffrey Kabaservice noted in the Guardian last November, “Nearly all of the Democrats who flipped the seats of moderate Republicans are themselves moderate. Few support the socialist agenda of Senator Bernie Sanders.” Progressive favorites like Andrew Gillum lost his race against a weak Republican opponent. And Joe Biden tops most Democratic primary polls by a wide margin. It’s also especially bad politics for someone like Hickenlooper, who can’t get away with filibustering about the merits of capitalism if he hopes to get near the nomination. To the extent that Sanders’s concept of democratic socialism has gained traction, it’s not because capitalism has failed the masses. It’s because Sanders, beyond any of his peers, has consistent convictions and an authentic persona. To prevail, a moderate Democrat will need to behave likewise. The message can go like this: Capitalism has worked for millions of Americans. It worked for me. We need to reform it so it can work for everyone.Is Hickenlooper the guy to do this? Doubtful. Then again, Donald Trump is gearing up to run a campaign based on a thriving economy (check), a country at peace (check), a mess of congressional investigations that will quickly confuse and bore the public (check), Democrats who want to turn Silicon Valley into a giant utility (check), an inconclusive Mueller report (likely check), and a Democratic Party that can neither bring itself to censure an anti-Semitic congresswoman nor publicly embrace the free-market system (check, check).Democrats still seem to think 2020 is going to be a referendum on the president. It’s not. It’s going to be a choice. Right now, the Trump campaign could hardly ask for a bigger favor from its overconfident opponents.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kimiko de Freytas-TamuraWOLVERHAMPTON, England — To understand the contradictions that are tearing the Labour Party apart, consider Ruth Wilkinson and Philip Handley, both Labour supporters. Ms. Wilkinson, 24, voted for Britain to remain in the European Union. Mr. Handley, 60, to leave.The only bond that unites them is their fury at Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, and his handling of the opposition to the government’s plan for Britain’s departure from the European Union, known as Brexit. Both are ready to ditch the party altogether.“I’m absolutely devastated about the direction we’re traveling in,” Ms. Wilkinson, who works for a charity, said. “The party that I hold dear, and the party that I would stand behind, is not doing anything to offer a solution or an alternative.”Mr. Handley said Labour had misled people like him.“I’ve always voted for the Labour Party,” said the retired transport manager, who would prefer that Britain leave the bloc with no deal. “But this is the only thing I disagree with Jeremy Corbyn — how he handles Brexit.”[Follow our Brexit Vote live briefing for the latest updates.]Eighteen months ago, Mr. Corbyn, 69, a longtime Labour outsider cast as a kind of far-left revolutionary, was riding a wave of popularity.Labour had far exceeded modest expectations in a 2017 snap general election, and Mr. Corbyn had emerged as a surprisingly appealing figure, with young people memorably chanting his name at a music festival. He was seemingly primed to capitalize on the Conservatives’ infighting and missteps over the exit negotiations.Instead, he is now openly at war with his own members of Parliament, nine of whom have defected in the space of two weeks. And the party is bleeding both Remain and Leave voters, while facing serious accusations of institutional anti-Semitism. There is talk of an existential threat.Labour’s crisis is “much deeper than earlier crises,” said Mark Leonard, director of the European Council on Foreign Relations. “There is a standoff between the party and the country, the party and Parliament, and it’s difficult to see how you could cut your way through it.”Brexit has proved to be politically lethal. Rather than pitting left against right, or the government against the opposition, it cuts across ideological lines, eating away at the cohesion of Britain’s largest parties, the Conservatives and Labour.But Labour faces even broader forces.[Read more on the UK Parliament’s crucial Brexit vote.]In recent years, center-left, socialist-leaning parties across Europe have been fragmenting under an onslaught of right-wing populist parties catering to a broad swath of voters — older working classes and younger, urban people, loaded down with student debt.Labour had seemed to be bucking that trend, but now is scrambling to avoid a devastating split.Much of the blame, fairly or not, falls on Mr. Corbyn.From the beginning of the Brexit debate, he has sought to lie low, content to criticize Prime Minister Theresa May while placating the main Labour constituencies — urban Remain voters and Leave supporters in rural areas or working communities, who make up about a third of the party’s electorate.But as the Brexit deadline draws near, his efforts to appeal to both sides seem to be inflaming tensions rather than soothing them.Labour is running the risk of “trying to compromise in several directions and antagonizing everyone,” said Robert Ford, professor of politics at the University of Manchester.Even after suffering a string of setbacks and humiliations, Mrs. May is still seen as the more capable leader, and the Tories consistently outpoll Labour in opinion surveys. Mr. Corbyn, never popular with the majority of his own Labour lawmakers, has suffered a slump in his personal ratings.The right-leaning Sunday Times recently claimed that 150,000 Labour members have already ditched the party over Mr. Corbyn’s position on Brexit, a number the party vigorously denies.But there is no denying the defection of eight Labour members of Parliament, who left last month to form the Independent Group, citing Mr. Corbyn’s ambivalence over Brexit and his handling of anti-Semitism inside Labour. (Another lawmaker left, too, though that was because he supported Brexit and said he was disaffected by Mr. Corbyn’s leadership.)“What we’re seeing now is that a series of deep divides, both recent and more longstanding, are coming out in the open, because a tipping point has been reached for many,” said Mr. Ford of the University of Manchester.Mr. Corbyn moved quickly to stanch the rebellion, announcing that he would support a second referendum in the event of a “Tory Brexit.” But that seemed sure to anger Labour’s Remain voters.Labour has always been divided between a moderate, internationalist, social democratic Left, and a radical, pacifist anti-imperialist Left.“But the moderate side of the party has basically nearly always won,” Mr. Ford said. “Corbyn was the first time, probably since the 1930s, that the radical side of the party was in charge, and the rest of the party really doesn’t really like that, especially the members of Parliament.”Mr. Corbyn himself embodies some of these contradictions: a lifelong Euroskeptic, he only grudgingly campaigned for Britain to remain in Europe during the 2016 referendum.Since seizing the party leadership in 2015, Mr. Corbyn has enjoyed spurts of popularity, with party membership shooting up to an all-time high of more than 500,000 in 2016. But he was never able to win over the majority of Labour lawmakers, mostly moderates, who dismissed him as unelectable.His success in the 2017 election shattered that notion, a point that paradoxically may be working against him now, analysts say.“A lot of M.P.s in the party were basically expecting that he would go down to a crushing defeat,” said Mr. Ford, “and that then they would be able to regain control of the party, and this whole flirtation with the far-left would be some sort of horrible mistake and everyone would move on.”So far, that has not happened, and Labour lawmakers are “starting to lose any reason to stick around,” he said.Other tensions are playing out as well, especially between a pro-Corbyn grass roots movement and more socially conservative, working-class voters who believe Mr. Corbyn is too far to the left.“He’s too Marxist for me,” said Stuart Williams, 73, a retired law lecturer, in Wolverhampton. Unable to abide the idea of voting for a Conservative, he plans to sit out the next election.The stresses pulling Labour in opposite directions are equally reflected in the splintering of center-left parties across Europe in recent years, experts say.In Germany, for example, the Alternative for Germany, a new far-right movement, is appealing to former industrial communities that the Social Democratic Party once owned. The Green Party is drawing young, urban voters away from the S.P.D., squeezing the Social Democrats from both sides.In an effort to prevent even more M.P.s from defecting and to heal some of the divisions, Tom Watson, deputy Labour leader and a vocal critic of Mr. Corbyn, recently announced the creation of a moderate, social democratic group, the Future Britain Group, inside Labour.“The departure of our colleagues is a real blow to us,” Mr. Watson recently told “The Andrew Marr Show,” “and we need to understand why they felt they need to go.”But even impassioned Labour activists like Ms. Wilkinson are becoming disillusioned, long before Mr. Corbyn — or Labour — has a chance at making Downing Street his home.“I haven’t seen them do anything effective in opposition at all,” Ms. Wilkinson said. “They are failing on Brexit, failing us on Brexit.”“I’m angry at Corbyn,” she added.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byPolitical MemoBy Lisa LererThe country is 337 days away from the Iowa caucuses and 611 days from the general election for president. But that’s not stopping Democrats from debating the politics of entering the race really, really early or just, well, plain old-fashioned early.A dozen candidates, half of whom are women, rushed into the contest in the first two months of 2019, creating the most diverse primary field in history. Now, the party is on the cusp of a second round of announcements: A wave of white men, most of whom have targeted March as their do-or-die moment.“Amy and I have made a decision about how we can best serve our country,” former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas aid in a brief statement on Wednesday. “We are excited to share it with everyone soon.”Michael R. Bloomberg gave himself a timeline of “three more weeks” to decide — two and a half weeks ago.Asked last Sunday whether he was running, Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington answered, “We’re getting to that point where we can talk to you about that.”Mr. Inslee announced his bid Friday morning, and former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado is expected to enter the race as soon as next week. Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio is wrapping up his tour of early primary states, leaving him a week or two away from making a decision, say those who have spoken to him.“We are in a period of campaigns starting earlier,” said Joel Benenson, a Democratic pollster who played a top role in Barack Obama’s and Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaigns. “I don’t think that you’re dead in the water if you don’t get in by April 1, but you don’t have a lot of time after that.”[Make sense of the 2020 election with our newsletter, On Politics With Lisa Lerer.]There are arguments for both an early and a late start. A winter launch means more time to raise money, attract coveted staff members and build grass-roots support. But a spring announcement could bring the appeal of a fresh face into a crowded field.Some of those considering joining the race are not household names, and an earlier entrance might have gotten lost in the sea of announcements from prominent Democrats like Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Kamala Harris, Cory Booker and Kirsten Gillibrand.The exception, of course, is former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who polls show would instantly be the early front-runner if he ran. His indecision has fed a constant stream of will-he-or-won’t-he speculation.Mr. Biden, in an appearance Tuesday at the University of Delaware, said his family is urging him to run. But, he added, “I’m not there yet.”“I have not made the final decision — but don’t be surprised,” he said. If he were to run, he said, he expected he would enter the race in the second quarter of the year.Mr. O’Rourke, whose strong showing in his failed challenge to Senator Ted Cruz boosted him to political stardom, has kept his decision-making process far more closely held.While Mr. O’Rourke has spent his time since his Senate defeat traveling the country, posting viral Instagram videos and talking to voters, others’ presidential aspirations have been complicated by their day jobs. Gov. Steve Bullock of Montana, another potential candidate, is reluctant to spend much time traveling to early primary states during his state’s legislative session, a gathering that happens only once every two years and isn’t expected to finish until April, his aides say.Mr. Hickenlooper was governor until early January, making it difficult for him to fully focus on a presidential campaign until after the new year, aides said. He has argued taking the extra time is worth the potential cost.“To me, it’s better to be late a few weeks and lose money on it, and not have raised as much money as you would have, but actually have everybody unified,” Mr. Hickenlooper told Colorado reporters, who traveled to Iowa to cover his not-quite-yet-campaign.Of course, in 2020, “late” is still really early. Democratic candidates have packed the field far faster in 2019 than in any other primary contest in the modern era.[Just how early are candidates joining the race? We looked at every primary since 1972.]For those outside the race, the whole discussion over whether to announce in January or April seems slightly insane.“The primaries are in a few weeks, right?” joked Gov. Gavin Newsom of California, who has endorsed Ms. Harris. “The whole thing, it’s absurd. ‘Biden really needs to decide right now.’ Really, does he? I mean come on.”But whether Mr. Biden is out or in, Democrats haven’t seen a race this wide open in over a decade. Competition for donors and staff is fierce, with some early-state operatives being courted by nearly a dozen candidates, candidates-to-be and potential candidates.Already, fund-raising requests flood Democrats’ inboxes, a reflection of the frenzy around small-dollar donations that has taken hold as candidates try to court the party’s base by rejecting corporate and big-dollar donations — at least for the primary contest.The earlier candidates enter the race, the more time they have to build up their political ATMs — a roster of potential supporters they can tap again and again for contributions. They will be competing with grass-roots fund-raising behemoths, some of whom have millions left over from past campaigns and expansive lists of supporters. Mr. Sanders, for instance, collected over $10 million in his first week as a candidate, according to campaign officials.Much of the fund-raising anxiety stems from the looming deadline of April 15, the date candidates must file their first financial reports of the year with the Federal Election Commission. With early polling measuring little more than name recognition, those numbers are typically viewed as the first real demonstration of relative strength.“I would not wait much longer,” said Stephanie Schriock, the president of the political action committee Emily’s List and an early proponent of online fund-raising as Howard Dean’s national finance director. “If they’re going to run they’ve got to go. The money isn’t just going to come immediately.”Supporters of Ms. Warren, who effectively pushed up the start date of the race with her surprise New Year’s Eve announcement, say her early entrance allowed unfettered political space for her message. But she has still faced fund-raising struggles, as Mr. Sanders — who poses perhaps her toughest competition for economic progressives — has raised far more money.“Being first in has one downside: People can applaud your big bold ideas while also thinking, ‘I’d like to wait six months before picking a horse and making my first donation,’” said Adam Green, co-founder of the liberal Progressive Change Campaign Committee, which has endorsed Ms. Warren.Julián Castro, the former housing secretary and former mayor of San Antonio, who launched his exploratory committee more than two weeks before Ms. Warren, described his early start as a strategic choice to give himself the best shot at building a following against better-known and better-financed rivals.“What I need is time. I need the fight to start earlier,” Mr. Castro said.But some Democrats question whether the traditional rules of the so-called “invisible primary” — the pre-voting period when candidates rack up endorsements, donors and media attention — still apply. In 2015, President Trump entered the primaries in June, and Mr. Sanders at the end of April.Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster who is working for Mr. Hickenlooper, says the real sorting of the field will begin with the first primary debate in June, a potentially two-night event that she believes will have “off-the-chart” viewership.“I just think all these traditional trappings of primary campaigns were upended in 2016 and are already being upended in 2020,” Ms. Greenberg said. “Nobody really knows what the rules are now.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy David M. HalbfingerJERUSALEM — The Israeli election on April 9 was supposed to be a referendum on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Facing indictment on bribery charges and a stiff challenge from a career soldier who retired as the military’s chief of staff, Mr. Netanyahu, for the first time, was both deeply vulnerable and unable to persuade Israelis that he was clearly the best prepared to keep them safe.Again and again this past week, Mr. Netanyahu appeared to lay bare those weaknesses. Yet suddenly it is the fitness of his opponent, Benny Gantz, that is being questioned.Nothing played out as expected when Mr. Netanyahu flew to Washington on Sunday. It had promised to be a crowning moment, in which President Trump would proclaim United States recognition of Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights, and Mr. Netanyahu would remind voters back home of his mastery of international diplomacy.But a Gaza rocket strike north of Tel Aviv on Monday not only set off a new round of violence, it also reminded voters that Mr. Netanyahu’s policy in Gaza, such as it is, has been to count on the Iron Dome antimissile system, order largely symbolic retaliatory airstrikes that cause few casualties, hope for cooler heads to prevail, and then do little if anything until the next flare-up.To worsen matters, as thousands of Israeli citizens repeatedly ran for cover, forcing Mr. Netanyahu to cut his trip short, he complained to Israeli reporters as he boarded his flight home about how little attention their news outlets had paid to the Golan Heights event, saying, “The fact that you covered it for no more than a minute is something you will pay for.”An editorial cartoonist for Yediot Ahronot captured the prime minister’s tone-deaf self-involvement, depicting him gleefully asking Israelis pondering the smoldering wreckage of their home: “Did you hear about the Golan?”Yet a series of unforced errors by Mr. Gantz and his campaign have now allowed Mr. Netanyahu not only to move on but to raise doubts about Mr. Gantz’s readiness for the scrutiny that comes with being prime minister.After delivering a well-received speech to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee’s annual conference on Monday, Mr. Gantz gave back-to-back satellite interviews from Washington on the most-watched Israeli evening news broadcasts, and handed Mr. Netanyahu’s video- and meme-makers ammunition to use against him.Asked how he would handle Gaza differently from Mr. Netanyahu, Mr. Gantz rambled between platitudes about “rebuilding our deterrence” and “using our strength,” but offered no actual solutions. He botched the name of one interviewer, stammered the name of the other and struggled to adjust to the satellite delay.Asked about a leaked recording in which, speaking privately, he had speculated about Mr. Netanyahu’s willingness to have him harmed physically, Mr. Gantz tried to sidestep the matter as gossipy and unimportant, but fueled interest in it, saying, “I’m not paranoid.”Mr. Netanyahu’s campaign jumped to the attack, questioning Mr. Gantz’s mental stability and releasing a new ad, with the interviews edited to amplify Mr. Gantz’s embarrassment, declaring that the job of prime minister was evidently “too big for him.”To top it off, on Wednesday, the Israeli state comptroller released a report faulting the Israeli police for contract irregularities that names Mr. Gantz’s bankrupt former company, Fifth Dimension, which had sought to sell the police artificial-intelligence technology.The company is accused of exaggerating its experience, clientele and product readiness at the time it won a no-bid contract worth about $1.1 million for a test of the technology.Mr. Netanyahu did not hesitate to demand a full-blown criminal investigation. “Netanyahu must not be subjected to one set of laws while Gantz is to another,” said his party, Likud.“Investigate Benny Gantz now,” Mr. Netanyahu said on Twitter.Mr. Netanyahu is known as a swift and no-holds-barred political fighter, but the past few days also showed that Mr. Gantz can be slow on his feet and that his party can be lumbering on the attack.The Labor Party’s leader, Avi Gabbay, was first to slash Mr. Netanyahu for his complaints about news coverage when rockets were falling on Israeli homes, releasing an ad Wednesday morning saying, “Excuse me, Bibi, we were busy with life itself.”“If you’d take the Labor campaign and put it with Gantz, maybe he’d have a chance,” quipped Tal Shalev, the political reporter for Walla News, one of Israel’s top news sites.By Wednesday night, Mr. Gantz had responded forcefully, but from the relative comfort of behind a teleprompter. He said Hamas leaders needed to be “eliminated,” accused Mr. Netanyahu of losing “all control,” and said the Likud campaign had “become a factory of lies and ugly slander.”“This is what happens when you are in the job for too many years,” Mr. Gantz said. “The corruption, the money, the self concern. The citizens bore him.”But defeating Mr. Netanyahu, indictments or not, has always been a challenge with little room for errors, given his longevity, powerful base of support and political talents. And now, Mr. Gantz has made more than his share.His campaign hopes to regain its footing, and the upper hand, by refocusing public attention on the latest scandal to embroil Mr. Netanyahu: Allegations that he improperly authorized the sale of advanced German-made submarines to Egypt without the approval of top military officials, possibly at a cost to Israel’s national security, and engaged in self-dealing, through a financial stake in a company that supplied the shipyard that built the Egyptian subs and several Israeli warships.“Making mistakes is something that happens in life,” Mr. Gantz said Wednesday night, “but putting a country at risk, and the submarine affair in particular — for this there can be no forgiving.”Overlooked during Mr. Netanyahu’s and Mr. Gantz’s detours to Washington was word from Germany that an investigation had been launched into Israel’s purchase of the warships from the shipyard, ThyssenKrupp.Still, any political benefit Mr. Gantz might derive from the submarine scandal may be fleeting.The Gaza tensions could escalate on Saturday, as Hamas marks the anniversary of the border-fence protests against Israel with a big demonstration. And that is unlikely to aid Mr. Gantz, who as army chief oversaw the last Gaza war, in 2014, said Tamir Sheafer, a political communications scholar at Hebrew University.“Most of the people who want a harsher military action, that see the solution with power and might, naturally they are right-wing,” he said, and likely would not support a centrist like Mr. Gantz.“They’d vote for another right-wing party, one that’s another coalition partner for Bibi,” he said.In an appeal to those voters, Naftali Bennett of the New Right party, who wants to become minister of defense if Mr. Netanyahu is re-elected, created an ad in which, speaking Arabic but donning a skullcap like armor, he threatens Hamas with devastation.Even Mr. Gantz’s admirers can sound fatalistic about the political ramifications of renewed fighting in Gaza.Hours after the first rocket from Gaza on Monday struck the Wolf family home in Mishmeret, a pastoral village about 20 miles north of Tel Aviv, a hedgerow nearby had become a living billboard for banners of Mr. Gantz’s Blue and White party and for Yair Lapid, his political partner.But their supporters feared that the rocket attack would help only Mr. Netanyahu.“I think Bibi will get stronger,” said Avi Rahamim, 63, a farmer who described himself as a centrist. “Who votes for Bibi? The people who don’t believe in peace.”Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Mishmeret, Israel.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jamie TarabaySYDNEY, Australia — Julie Bishop, the popular former Australian foreign minister, said Thursday that she would not run in coming federal elections, adding to the conservative government’s already-bleak image as a place that is inhospitable to women.Hers is the highest-profile departure in what has become an exodus of women from the government, which is run by a coalition led by the center-right Liberal Party. The departure of several female Liberal lawmakers in recent months has reignited a debate about sexism in Parliament that could shape the next election.“It’s no secret the Liberal Party has a problem with women,” said Clementine Ford, a feminist commentator. Ms. Ford said she was surprised that Ms. Bishop had remained in the party for as long as she had.Until last year, Ms. Bishop had been deputy leader of the Liberal Party for more than a decade, standing stalwart while an ever-revolving door for the top job roiled the party and upset voters. In her tenure as deputy, the party had three different male leaders, one of them serving twice.Last August, Ms. Bishop was one of three candidates who vied for the party’s leadership after Malcolm Turnbull, who was then the prime minister, was ousted in a back-room revolt. Despite having higher public approval ratings than her two male opponents, she lost on the first ballot with less than 13 percent of the vote. Scott Morrison, who was then the treasurer of Australia, was elected by Liberal Party lawmakers as the next prime minister.After the vote, Ms. Bishop opted to leave the cabinet and become a rank-and-file lawmaker.Ms. Ford said she did not think “it even occurred” to male party members to elect a woman as their leader. Ms. Bishop was the first woman to formally stand for leader of the Liberal Party.“She was hugely popular with the electorate,” Ms. Ford said. “To ignore not only her skills and ability and merit, but to do it so blatantly, must have been a huge slap in the face for her.”Ms. Bishop’s loss in the leadership vote sent waves of relief through the opposition Labor Party, which is favored in polls to win the next election. Though the exact date has not been set, elections must be held this year.If Ms. Bishop had won, the Labor Party “might have had a real fight on their hands in the next election,” said Jane Caro, an Australian author and commentator. “So the Liberal Party really cut off its own nose to spite its face, but such is the strong belief among many conservative people that women should not be in charge.”After the leadership vote last summer, Ms. Bishop addressed Parliament and said that women in both chambers had long been subjected to “appalling behavior,” including bullying and sexist comments about their appearance, clothing and personal lives.“It is evident that there is an acceptance of a level of behavior in Canberra that would not be tolerated in any other workplace in Australia,” she said at the time, referring to the Australian capital.Julia Banks, another Liberal Party lawmaker, said in August that she was quitting politics after the next election, and called for Parliament to enact a code of conduct to curb inappropriate behavior.“Women have suffered in silence for too long,” she said.Women in Australia are underrepresented at the federal level. Of the 58 Liberal members of Parliament, 11 are women, as are eight of the party’s 24 senators. In the Labor Party, 29 of 69 members of Parliament and 14 of 25 senators are women.Speaking in Parliament on Thursday, Ms. Bishop, 62, said a number of people, including women, had shown interest in running for her seat and that it was time for a new member to take her place.Her announcement came just over a month after Kelly O’Dwyer, the minister for women and the minister for industrial relations, said she would not run in the next election because she wanted to spend more time with her family.Ms. O’Dwyer, who was Australia’s youngest female cabinet member and the first sitting cabinet member to give birth, is one of six women holding the top 23 positions in Mr. Morrison’s government.Since last summer, there has been a growing call for the Liberal Party to adopt quotas promoting women, something the party has so far rejected. The Labor Party, by contrast, aims to have 50 percent female lawmakers by 2025.Earlier this year, Foreign Minister Marise Payne said that while the Liberal Party should consider quotas, she had not yet decided if she supported the idea.“I do know that as an organization there is more that we can do,” Ms. Payne told The Sydney Morning Herald. “All options should be on the table. It’s not something which we are ignoring. It’s something which we take very seriously.”Ms. Bishop was Australia’s first female foreign minister, a role that thrust her in the international spotlight in July 2014, when Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot out of the sky and crashed in Ukrainian territory controlled by pro-Russian rebels. The crash killed all 298 people onboard, including 28 Australians and nine permanent residents.“Julie’s judgment, determination and energy helped secure a United Nations Security Council resolution that ensured Australia and its partners could repatriate the victims of that terrible crime,” Mr. Morrison said in Parliament on Thursday after Ms. Bishop’s announcement. “Australia has not forgotten those terrible days and still waits for the perpetrators of that crime to be brought to justice.”It was a sentiment echoed by Bill Shorten, the Labor Party leader.“If any of us were ever to be privileged to be in the position that she was in, dealing with the Russians and other people, I hope that any of us would show the same strength that she showed. That’s to her everlasting credit,” Mr. Shorten said.Mr. Turnbull, the former prime minister, said on Twitter that Ms. Bishop had been Australia’s “finest” foreign minister, “eloquent, elegant and always courageous advancing our national interest in these challenging times.”Ms. Bishop departed the legislature after her farewell speech, before Mr. Morrison and Mr. Shorten spoke their praise.Along with Ms. Bishop’s political legacy, however, the prime minister made reference to a part of Ms. Bishop’s wardrobe that has dogged the lawmaker much as leopard-print kitten heels have Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain.“Her successor will have big shoes to fill,” Mr. Morrison said, “and we all know Julie has the best shoes in the Parliament.”Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.Before we get to today’s newsletter, we wanted to let you know about some big news that’s developing this evening.Today, the Senate voted to approve a compromise on the border that includes funding for some security measures, but not for President Trump’s wall. The bill would prevent another government shutdown, and the president was expected to sign it.Just minutes before the vote, though, the White House announced that Mr. Trump plans to declare a national emergency to build the wall. The story is still developing; you can read the latest here.(And for those of you wondering, here’s an explanation of the president’s emergency powers, and what exactly they allow him to do.)____________________While we wait for the dust to settle from this latest fight between President Trump and Congress, we wanted to tell you about an under-the-radar change the Democrats are making in how they handle voter data — and why it could make a big difference in the 2020 presidential race.Political campaigns collect all kinds of information. Your address, of course, but also things like your age, your interests, if you have kids, your donation records. The more they know, they better they can target ads — so, say, a retired veteran in Oshkosh, Wis., doesn’t get the same message as a vegan freshman at New York University.For years, Republicans had an edge in gathering this kind of information. They had developed a platform that allowed them to share data among state parties, the national party, campaigns and outside groups like PACs. When Mr. Trump became the Republican nominee, the G.O.P. exchange was there to make up for his lack of political organization.Now, the Democrats are taking concrete steps toward establishing their own, similar organization. While the Democratic Data Exchange isn’t as headline-grabbing as the president declaring a national emergency, it might just be one of the most significant steps Democrats can take in their efforts to win in 2020.“What we are announcing today is something that should have been in place years ago,” said Tom Perez, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, who negotiated the deal. “In 2016, it appeared all too frequently that Republicans knew more about voters than we did.”The exchange will be an independent, for-profit enterprise that will allow the national party, state parties and some independent groups, like Planned Parenthood or labor unions, to share data. Organizations won’t know which groups contributed which information, keeping the system from running afoul of Federal Election Commission rules.Democrats have tried to set up such a system twice in the past and failed. Friend of the newsletter Julie Bykowicz broke the news in December that the D.N.C. and state parties were locked in a deep internal battle over who would control the data. Essentially, state parties didn’t want to get shut out of controlling their own voter files — a step they believed would put them on a slippery slope toward irrelevance.It’s a fear rooted in recent history: Advisers to Barack Obama scoffed at the Democratic establishment, believing that running against the state parties would help cast him as the outsider against Hillary Clinton in 2008. After Mr. Obama won the election, his team established its own organization, Organizing for America, and let the Democratic National Committee languish.But Mrs. Clinton’s loss in 2016 helped Democrats realize they could not depend on a presidential nominee to reach voters. They have appointed Howard Dean, the former D.N.C. chairman who still has a strong following among state party leaders, as head of the new exchange, helping to reassure local parties.“People have spent years and millions of dollars collecting that information and ultimately no one wants to give it away,” said Ken Martin, president of the Democrats’ organization of state party leaders. “But what good is data if it just sits in your file?”Want to read more about the Democrats and 2020? Today the party unveiled a new system for their first debate in June. And this graphic looks at the historical precedent for the field being so large, so early (spoiler: there is none).____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________It has been a year since a gunman walked into a high school in Parkland, Fla., and killed 17 people. We were curious what, if anything, has changed politically since then. So we asked Margaret Kramer and Jennifer Harlan, who wrote about the post-Parkland landscape for The Times. Here’s what they told us: From walkouts and calls to action to a national bus tour, the movement led by the students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland has had a clear message: Gun control is imperative, and young people’s votes are critical to making it happen.Their message seems to have resonated at the state level. Over the last year, states have passed 76 gun-control laws. Here are three big ones:• The Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Public Safety Act in Florida. The bill expanded mental health services, raised the minimum age for all gun purchases to 21, established a waiting period for background checks and allowed superintendents and sheriffs to arm school personnel. It also banned bump stocks, but not the AR-15, the gun used in the Parkland shooting.• Ban on the sale of semiautomatic assault rifles to people under 21 in Washington State. I-1639 raised the age of assault rifle purchases to 21, mandated enhanced background checks and added a required firearm safety course for buyers. But sheriffs are reportedly not enforcing the initiative, and the N.R.A. has filed a lawsuit to have it overturned.• The Safe Act in New York. The state banned bump stocks, extended the waiting period for buyers, prohibited teachers from carrying guns in school and blocked individuals who pose a threat from buying or possessing guns — a provision known as a “red flag law.”But aside from a bump stock ban — spurred on by the 2017 Las Vegas massacre — partisan gridlock blocked any national changes in the last year, even as gun deaths rose to their highest rates in 50 years. Democrats, now in control of the House, passed two gun-control bills on Wednesday, the day before the Parkland anniversary. But Senate Republicans and President Trump will most likely prevent the bills from ever becoming law.Read Margaret and Jennifer’s story: Parkland Shooting: Where Gun Control and School Safety Stand TodayAnd for more coverage, read about how Parkland students remembered the day, a moving story about the survivors in their own words, and a look at how many children have been killed by guns since Parkland. ____________________• Amazon canceled its plans to build an expansive corporate campus in New York City after facing an unexpectedly fierce backlash. The decision — a victory for left-wing politicians and activists — represented a reordering of New York’s political power structure.• This visual article takes you to the Alps, to see how climate change is destroying glaciers there — and how Switzerland plans to handle it.•  Vicki Ibarra, an I.R.S. worker, prided herself on her self-sufficiency. Then came the government shutdown. From The Washington Post, a haunting portrait of the long-term effects of the 35-day stalemate.____________________Sure, Valentine’s Day is sappy, overly commercialized and out of step with modern relationships. But a pickle, bacon or doughnut bouquet? That’s an idea we can get behind._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]Do you remember the old days of the Democratic Party? Universal health care was controversial. Boasting about taxing the rich was political suicide. And socialism was a dirty word.It was a different time. It was three years ago.In 2016, Bernie Sanders started a "revolution,” as he liked to say, testing the bounds of what liberal Democrats believed could win national support. As he embarks on his second presidential bid, though, the question for voters is whether he’s still the guy to lead it.Mr. Sanders certainly thinks he is.“Now it’s time to complete that revolution and to take that vision and implement it into reality,” he said this morning in an interview with CBS News, shortly after he officially entered the race.When asked how this campaign would be different from his last, Mr. Sanders responded, “We’re going to win.”[Read the full story on Bernie Sanders’s entrance into the 2020 race, and see where he stands on the issues.]But it may not be that simple. Though we refer to elections as “races,” the term isn’t quite right. A presidential campaign isn’t a 10K fun run; you don’t win just because you get there first. You win when you match the moment.Mr. Sanders enters the contest with some significant advantages. He is the only candidate in the field who has run for president before, meaning he has spent time on a national debate stage, built operations in early primary states and dealt with national scrutiny.And he boasts a list of more than two million donors, a roster that is six times as large as any other candidate’s. Less than four hours after he made his announcement today, his campaign said, he had pulled in $1.2 million in donations.But that may be where the advantages end.Four years ago, Mr. Sanders positioned himself as the underdog against Hillary Clinton, a liberal alternative to a politician carrying hefty baggage from a lifetime in party politics. Now he will face a crowded field of fresh-faced candidates, including some of his past supporters.Two Democrats who endorsed him, Representative Tulsi Gabbard and the spirituality author Marianne Williamson, are running for president. Senator Jeff Merkley, the only senator to back Mr. Sanders in 2016, is himself weighing a bid. He can’t even count on the support of Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who worked as an organizer in his 2016 campaign but has said she is unlikely to endorse anyone in the 2020 race.And when it comes to policy, it seems Mr. Sanders is a victim of his own success.Most of the candidates running in 2020 have embraced his signature “Medicare for all” legislation and plans to raise taxes on the ultrarich. Senator Elizabeth Warren, who shares supporters with Mr. Sanders, is beating him to economic policies that should fall firmly in his domain. Even public opinion on socialism is becoming more positive.An often underrated piece of Mr. Sanders’s success in 2016 was that he faced a fraction of the attacks that he could have on his past and positions. The Clinton campaign felt he had no real chance of winning and did not want to risk alienating their left flank by really going after him. That’s not going to happen this time around, when Mr. Sanders enters the campaign in the top tier.Already, Mr. Sanders has faced new scrutiny, fielding questions about gender bias on his past campaign, his struggles with minority voters and his age — something Mr. Sanders almost never discussed in his race against the 68-year-old Mrs. Clinton. He would be 79 years old when he entered the White House.In 2016, the toughest questions Mr. Sanders faced were about the political future he envisioned. Now, he’s the one answering for his past.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________Remember North Carolina’s Ninth Congressional District?A quick refresher: Officials are investigating whether L. McCrae Dowless Jr., a contractor for the Republican Mark Harris’s campaign, may have been involved in tampering with absentee ballots. State officials refused to certify the vote, which Mr. Harris appeared to win by a narrow margin, and the House seat remains empty.There may soon be a resolution. This week the North Carolina State Board of Elections is holding hearings on the matter, and it will ultimately decide whether there will be a new vote.Alan Blinder has been covering the story for The Times, and he wrote a guide for those looking to catch up. Here’s an abridged version:What’s the standard to trigger a new election?The elections board has the power to order a new vote if it finds that “irregularities or improprieties occurred to such an extent that they taint the results of the entire election and cast doubt on its fairness.” The state board has five members — three Democrats and two Republicans — and it takes four members to call a new election.Will there be criminal charges?Maybe. The board can send any findings to prosecutors, some of whom have already been investigating irregularities.What can Congress do about all of this?Under the Constitution, the House is “the judge of the elections, returns and qualifications of its own members,” and Congress could eventually determine that November’s balloting was compromised. A formal refusal by Congress to seat a prospective member from the Ninth District would lead to a new election.What has happened in the hearings so far?On Monday, the elections board’s executive director said that investigators had concluded there had been “a coordinated, unlawful and substantially resourced absentee ballot scheme” during the 2018 election. Mr. Dowless’s stepdaughter was among the day’s witnesses, and she testified that she had personally collected ballots — a violation of state law — and that people working for Mr. Dowless had sometimes filled in incomplete ballots. Through his lawyer, Mr. Dowless declined to testify.And today, the chief strategist for Mr. Harris’s campaign, Andy Yates, took the stand and said he had not known of any wrongdoing by Mr. Dowless. Mr. Harris could still be asked to testify.Read the latest story from Alan: ‘I Was Shocked,’ Says Campaign Consultant of Illegal Effort in House Race____________________• For the first time, the Vatican has confirmed to The Times that it has secret guidelines for what to do when priests break celibacy vows and father children.• McKinsey & Company, the world’s most prestigious consulting firm, has a mostly hidden $12.3 billion hedge fund. A Times investigation examines the potential for conflicts of interest between the fund’s investments and the advice the firm sells to clients.• Did you know that Cory Booker is vegan? He talks about his history with a plant-based diet (and some of his favorite places to eat) in this interview with the vegan website VegNews.____________________“I’m just trying to get some ranch.” A hero is born at a Kirsten Gillibrand event in Iowa.(Of course, there’s a recipe for that!)_____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy David M. HalbfingerJERUSALEM — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has made something of an art form of cutting deals with small Israeli political parties, but his latest alliance has earned him denunciations from quarters where he has usually been able to count on unshakable support.Mr. Netanyahu, his future imperiled by prosecutors and political challengers alike, has enraged Jewish leaders in Israel and the United States by striking a bargain with a racist anti-Arab party whose ideology was likened by one influential rabbi to Nazism. Even pro-Israel groups in the United States that prefer to air their disagreements quietly have issued public condemnations.The furor has aggravated already fraught relations between Israel and Jews in the diaspora, undercutting American and European Jewry’s efforts to fight anti-Semitism at a time when it is on the rise on both continents.The embattled Mr. Netanyahu, grasping for every potential vote, has turned to the extremist party Otzma Yehudit, or Jewish Power, whose leaders have a long history of expressing support for violence against Palestinians, expulsion of Arabs from Israel and the occupied territories, and a ban on intermarriage or sex between Jews and Arabs.The prime minister arranged for the organization to merge into a somewhat more mainstream party of religious Zionists, the Jewish Home. That pact, announced Wednesday, could easily catapult Otzma Yehudit from the disreputable fringe into Israel’s next governing coalition.Otzma Yehudit’s leaders proudly call themselves disciples of Meir Kahane, the Brooklyn-born anti-Arab militant who served a term in Israel’s Parliament in the 1980s before his Kach party was outlawed in Israel and declared a terrorist group by the United States. He was assassinated in 1990.Much as Kach did, Otzma Yehudit’s platform calls for annexing the occupied territories, rejecting a Palestinian state, expelling “enemies” of Israel — a euphemism for Arabs — and taking “ownership” of the Temple Mount. The site, in Jerusalem, is holy to both Muslims and Jews, and is overseen by Muslim clerics under Jordanian supervision.The pact between Mr. Netanyahu and the Kahanists set off a predictable eruption from liberal Jewish groups like J Street and Americans for Peace Now, as well as the Union of Reform Judaism, which normally stays out of Israeli politics.But the outrage was not limited to the left.On Friday, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the American lobbying group known as Aipac, and the American Jewish Committee, both of which rarely weigh in publicly on Israeli politics, declared Otzma Yehudit’s ideas “reprehensible.” They vowed not to have any contact with its leaders even if they become part of the next government.In an equally extraordinary step, Rabbi Benny Lau of Jerusalem, a pillar of religious Zionism, repeatedly assailed the merger over the weekend, warning on social media that “the defilement and destruction of the land serves as a guarantee for the loss of the land.”Rabbi Lau lamented that the prime minister seemed concerned only with winning re-election, and, from his pulpit at the Ramban Synagogue, likened Kahanism to Nazism and its ideas to the Nuremberg Laws.“The entry of the racist doctrine into the Knesset is the destruction of the Temple,” he wrote on Facebook on Sunday.In Israel’s chaotic parliamentary system, small parties like the ultra-Orthodox Shas can be make or break when it comes to forming a majority coalition after an election, and Mr. Netanyahu has routinely struck deals giving them outsize influence.But this time, he is running with his indictment on corruption charges widely expected, and facing his toughest challenge yet from Benny Gantz, a centrist and popular former army chief. So desperate to prevent any right-wing ballots from being squandered on a party unable to win its own seats in the Knesset, Mr. Netanyahu has pre-emptively stretched his coalition’s margins farther to the right than ever before.The two leaders of Otzma Yehudit who could win Knesset seats, depending on the merged party’s share of the vote in April, are Michael Ben Ari and Itamar Ben Gvir. They are co-founders of Lehava, a group that opposes Jewish-Arab relationships and was implicated in a 2014 arson attack on a school for Jewish and Arab children in Jerusalem.Mr. Ben Ari calls Arabs the “enemy” and advocates expelling them. He was denied a visa to the United States in 2012 as a member of a terrorist organization.Mr. Ben Gvir, who was a legislative aide for Mr. Ben Ari, has acknowledged having a picture in his home of Baruch Goldstein, the Kahane follower who massacred 29 Palestinians while they were praying at a mosque in Hebron in 1994.He first gained notoriety in 1995, as a radical opponent of the Oslo peace process, when he stole the hood ornament from Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin’s car and said, “We got to his car, and we’ll get to him, too.” Weeks later, Mr. Rabin was assassinated by a member of a group that also had roots in Kahanism.The chorus of outrage over Mr. Netanyahu’s actions reflected pent-up concern and frustration in the United States and elsewhere over the prime minister’s right-wing and ultra-Orthodox-approved policies and how difficult they are making it for liberal Jews to defend Israel against growing opposition, including among new members of Congress.Aipac did not comment beyond a terse Twitter post on Friday, but that alone was exceptional: In 2017, when Mr. Netanyahu infuriated American Jews by reneging on a deal to improve access to the Western Wall for non-Orthodox worshipers, the group sent emissaries to register objections but said nothing in public.Rabbi Jeffrey K. Salkin of Temple Solel in Hollywood, Fla., called Mr. Netanyahu’s actions a “slap in the face to American Jews” as they grapple with new political challenges posed by Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, and other supporters of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement against Israel.Aipac clearly understood “that if they need to defend Israel to America, then Israel needs to be able to be morally defensible,” Rabbi Salkin said.Yohanan Plesner, president of the Israel Democracy Institute, said it was the first time Aipac had spoken out on domestic issues involving Israel’s character as a democratic state. Mr. Netanyahu’s move, he said, had made it harder both to preserve bipartisan American support for Israel and sustain enthusiasm among American Jews.“There’s a difference between a racist party entering the Knesset — the fringes of Israeli democracy can unfortunately contain such elements — and their being encouraged by the prime minister,” Mr. Plesner said. Still, on Sunday, Aipac said it was “honored” to announce that Mr. Netanyahu would attend its conference next month.For Mr. Netanyahu, his push to harvest every last right-wing vote is not merely about winning re-election. With the attorney general expected any day now to announce that he will seek Mr. Netanyahu’s indictment in a sprawling bribery scandal, the prime minister hopes to line up enough lawmakers to keep him in power even if he is put on trial — “what you may label an indictment-proof coalition,” said Mr. Plesner.“He’s entering this campaign with much fewer inhibitions than in the past,” Mr. Plesner said.Indeed, in just the past few weeks, to score political points Mr. Netanyahu has antagonized Arab diplomats by leaking a video of a private meeting with them; attacked members of his own party he sees as potential successors; bragged publicly about secret military strikes in Syria; warned darkly that a victory by Mr. Gantz would give Arab politicians enhanced power; and warned that “a Palestinian state would endanger our existence,” just months before the United States is expected to issue its peace plan.In pushing the Otzma Yehudit deal, Mr. Netanyahu even threw his own party, Likud, under the bus, giving away one of its Knesset candidacies to a member of Jewish Home as recompense for the merger. Moreover, he promised Jewish Home both the housing and education ministries.That itself raises concerns among more moderate right-wing Israelis. A leader of Jewish Home, Bezalel Smotrich, who could be handed one of those posts, has called himself a “proud homophobe,” supported segregated maternity wards for Arab and Jewish women, said Jewish developers should not have to sell homes to Arabs and favored a shoot-to-kill policy against Palestinian stone-throwers.With old lines between Likud and the farthest right wing growing blurry, Yossi Klein Halevi, a scholar at the Shalom Hartman Institute in Jerusalem, observed that campaign ads had popped up on city buses showing Moshe Kahlon, the finance minister, who heads his own center-right party, alongside Menachem Begin, the first Likud prime minister.“The sane right,” the ads say, in an implicit attack on today’s Likud.Mr. Halevi, who was a Kahane follower in the 1970s but renounced his ideas long ago, said Israelis had yet to absorb the ramifications of the Otzma Yehudit-Jewish Home merger. “We’re in for a major moment of self-reckoning,” he said. “More and more Israelis are going to realize what that means.”An earlier version of this article misidentified Moshe Kahlon, a member of Benjamin Netanyahu’s government. He is the finance minister, not the foreign minister.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn WashingtonBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON — Members of Congress like to say that governing is not a game, but they are increasingly playing round after round of gotcha.As a watershed election looms next year and little of real significance is happening on the legislative front, lawmakers are consumed with trying to trap one another with hot-button votes that don’t have much to do with real legislative business.Whether such show votes really matter when it comes to actual voters is another issue entirely. It is hard to find a case in which an incumbent senator or representative was knocked off solely because of an ill-considered decision in a postmidnight vote-a-rama in the Senate or on a particularly devious motion to recommit in the House.“It’s unlikely that a single vote will undermine a member’s re-election chances,” said Nathan L. Gonzales, the nonpartisan political handicapper and editor and publisher of Inside Elections.Still, that is not going to stop anyone — particularly Republicans at the moment — from trying. Much of the activity on Capitol Hill these days is more akin to trolling on Twitter than tackling national priorities.For instance, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, is gleefully preparing to force Democrats to take a stand on the so-called Green New Deal resolution, which, among other things, calls for 100 percent of American energy to come from clean sources within 10 years.The nonbinding document is essentially a set of ambitious progressive goals that has zero chance of passage in a Republican-controlled Senate with Donald J. Trump as president. As legislation, it would take years to develop and push through Congress. But Republicans are itching for a vote now to get Democrats, notably the presidential contenders, on the record. They have relentlessly mocked the Green New Deal as a framework for eliminating airplane travel and cheeseburgers because of restrictions on fossil fuels and cow emissions.“We have done some wacky things on our side, but this is the wackiest thing I have ever seen,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee.Democrats call the coming Republican maneuver a cynical stunt. They have suggested they will simply vote “present” and not be recorded on the resolution — a stance that may cost them with progressives who want Democrats to have the courage of their convictions no matter how premature the vote might be.At the same time, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, has demanded that Republicans offer an alternative, an offer they seem unlikely to accept. He also wants a vote on a separate Democratic resolution that would call for immediate action on climate change. His trap is to try to either force Republicans to admit climate change is real or deny it — a result that could hurt them no matter the outcome.“When is Leader McConnell going to schedule time for consideration of this and other climate change legislation?” asked Mr. Schumer, who is newly embracing climate change as an issue that appeals to younger voters.While the Senate is playing green deal or no green deal, the House is caught up in an arcane struggle that gives the term “inside baseball” a bad name. Newly relegated to the minority, House Republicans have been tormenting the Democratic majority with what is known as a motion to recommit.It is basically one final opportunity for the minority party to amend legislation about to pass on the floor. It has been transformed by both parties over the years as minority leaders have learned to spring politically charged M.T.R.s, as they are known, on the majority at the last minute. Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago, a former member of the House Democratic leadership who cut his political teeth on House races, was one of the early adapters of a weaponized motion to recommit and considered it a form of psychological political warfare.“Obviously, they are ‘gotcha’ amendments designed to give people political problems,” said Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader. “And by the way, that’s what we did. So this is not a new, you know, invention of the Republicans.”For Democrats, the problem is that Republicans seem to be better at drafting the motions. Now some are passing with the support of nervous new Democratic lawmakers from tough districts who don’t want to be caught on the wrong side of issues such as gun sales, immigration, anti-Semitism or domestic violence. The split has incited an internal party fight and has leaders worried that the more the motions pass, the more they will be considered serious rather than procedural and lead to political problems down the road.“You have members who won by less than a percentage point, and I have sympathy for them,” said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, who oversees the Rules Committee. But he said Democrats could not allow Republicans to carry the day with their political guerrilla attacks. “We cannot legitimize their underhanded tactics. It is just to put people in a bad spot.”The Republican success has some Democrats calling for a rules change to either dilute or eliminate the motion to recommit, talk that has Republicans crying foul. They say Democrats are already retreating on their pledge to make the House more transparent and bipartisan than it was under Republican control the previous eight years.“Here we are just two months into the new Democratic majority, which was touted to be about open debate, with an issue about process,” said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, the top Republican on the Rules Committee. He called discussion of changes to the motion to recommit “an affront to the institution.”Mr. McGovern said that any consideration of changes would be part of an extensive dialogue. After spending a fair amount of time in the minority himself, he showed some reluctance to tinker with the motion to recommit no matter the potential penalty for Democrats.“I still believe the minority should be guaranteed a constructive voice in the legislative process,” Mr. McGovern said. “You can’t just shut everybody out. That is not what this place is about and shouldn’t be about.”It probably also shouldn’t be about a running game of gotcha.Follow Carl Hulse on Twitter: @hillhulse.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen CastleLONDON — Britain’s opposition Labour Party said on Monday that it was prepared to support a second referendum on withdrawal from the European Union, a shift that could have significant ramifications for the fate of Brexit and for the country’s future.After the resignations of nine Labour Party members last week, and amid the prospect of more, the party’s leader, Jeremy Corbyn, dropped his longstanding resistance to a second vote on leaving the bloc.Mr. Corbyn’s support for a new vote is certainly no guarantee a new vote will happen. Still, it will cheer pro-European Britons, who have been fighting to reverse the outcome of the 2016 referendum decision.The Labour statement on Monday was lacking in detail, and it was not immediately clear when the amendment for a second vote would be put forward in Parliament and what question, exactly, it proposed to put to the people.Britain is scheduled to leave the European Union on March 29, but so far there is no agreement among lawmakers on how to proceed. An exit deal negotiated by Prime Minister Theresa May was rejected by an overwhelming 230-vote margin last month.If there is no agreement, the country risks a possibly chaotic “no-deal exit” from the bloc, without any negotiated agreement.Analysts raised doubts about whether a Labour amendment calling for a second vote would come this week, when Parliament is scheduled to vote on a series of amendments proposed by lawmakers. They suggested it was more likely that Labour would make its move next month, when Mrs. May’s Brexit proposed deal is scheduled to be reconsidered.At the moment, it is unlikely that a second vote would win a majority in Parliament because most lawmakers still oppose the idea. But if Mrs. May’s Brexit plan is rejected next month for a second time, then the calculation in Parliament could change.Mr. Corbyn could choose to support two Labour lawmakers, Peter Kyle and Phil Wilson, who are drawing up an amendment that would support Mrs. May’s deal — but only in return for a referendum on it, with voters given the alternative of backing the May deal or remaining in the bloc.While Labour lawmakers have long opposed a no-deal Brexit, they have been divided on whether to put the stay/leave question back to the people.The party campaigned in the 2016 referendum against Brexit, but many of Labour’s traditional supporters in the north and middle of the country ignored its advice. That has left lawmakers representing those areas in a quandary, with some insisting that Brexit must go ahead to respect the views of their voters.The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.But most Labour members and voters in London and other big cities adamantly oppose Brexit.One of the reasons cited by the Labour rebels, eight of whom quit last week to join an independent grouping, was Mr. Corbyn’s failure to oppose Brexit strongly enough. Without his support, there was no chance of a second referendum ever being authorized by lawmakers.Monday’s announcement suggests that their departure has already proved effective in pressuring Mr. Corbyn, who is a lifelong critic of the European Union, to fall into line with those in the party who support a so-called people’s vote.“One way or another, we will do everything in our power to prevent No Deal and oppose a damaging Tory Brexit based on Theresa May’s overwhelmingly rejected deal,” Mr. Corbyn said in the statement.“This is why, in line with our conference policy, we are committed to also putting forward or supporting an amendment in favor of a public vote to prevent a damaging Tory Brexit being forced on the country,” Mr. Corbyn said.At last year’s Labour Party conference, members agreed that the party’s main priority would be to push for a general election, but if it failed to secure one, all options would remain under consideration, including a people’s vote.Labour failed to bring down the government through a confidence motion last month but has been slow to move toward a second referendum. Mr. Corbyn has been accused of keeping in the background on Brexit, preferring to criticize and oppose Mrs. May’s Brexit plan, rather than stopping it, as long as he can avoid blame for its consequences.On Monday David Lammy, a lawmaker who favors another referendum, welcomed Mr. Corbyn’s statement backing a second vote.“This is a big step toward uniting our party and most importantly our country,” he wrote on Twitter. “No Brexit deal meets the fantasy promised in 2016. So the only way any specific form of Brexit can be made legitimate is through ratification in a #PeopleVote which includes the option to remain.”Richard Corbett, the leader of Labour’s lawmakers in the European Parliament, described the move toward a second vote as a “very important step.”“Given that we don’t want a catastrophic no deal, we don’t want Theresa May’s disastrous deal, and as it becomes clearer that she won’t go for an alternative deal, the only option left is stopping Brexit via a public vote,” he said.One analyst said Mr. Corbyn’s shift on the issue was more about internal Labour Party politics than securing a second vote.“It was always likely Corbyn would edge toward supporting some kind of referendum as the Brexit endgame approached,” said Steven Fielding, a professor of political history at the University of Nottingham. “But he has not done this in the expectation that the Commons will support a referendum — it won’t. This is him trying to keep a divided party united and shoring up a decline in his poll numbers.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byAnd why and how that case might fail.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistDebates about the Electoral College, like the one that Democrats have lately instigated, often get bogged down in disputes about the intentions of the founding generation — whether they were trying to check mob rule, prop up Southern power, preserve the power of small states, or simply come to a necessarily arbitrary constitutional compromise.These disputes are historically interesting but somewhat practically irrelevant, because everyone agrees that the college doesn’t work the way the founders expected. It doesn’t allow wise electors to veto demagogic candidates, it doesn’t throw most presidential elections to the House of Representatives — and as my colleague Nate Cohn pointed out last week, it doesn’t always give extra influence to the smallest states. (Donald Trump won because he overperformed in big swing states, not because he cobbled together a coalition of small ones.)[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Instead the Electoral College really just does one big thing that a popular-vote system wouldn’t do: It makes it possible for close elections to yield a president supported by a minority of voters, especially in circumstances where that minority is regionally concentrated rather than diffuse.Is there a case for a system that sometimes produces undemocratic outcomes? I think so, on two grounds. First, it creates incentives for political parties and candidates to seek supermajorities rather than just playing for 50.1 percent, because the latter play is a losing one more often than in a popular-vote presidential system.Second, it creates incentives for political parties to try to break regional blocs controlled by the opposition, rather than just maximizing turnout in their own areas, because you win the presidency consistently only as a party of multiple regions and you can crack a rival party’s narrow majority by flipping a few states.According to this — admittedly contrarian — theory, the fact that the Electoral College produces chaotic or undemocratic outcomes in moments of ideological or regional polarization is actually a helpful thing, insofar as it drives politicians and political hacks (by nature not the most creative types) to think bigger than regional blocs and 51 percent majorities.Thus the electoral/popular split of 1888 pointed the way to William McKinley and Teddy Roosevelt’s national Republican majorities, and the near-splits of 1968 and 1976 pushed us toward Reagan’s nationwide landslides and Bill Clinton’s successful center-left campaigns. Time and again a close election leads to hand-wringing about the need for Electoral College reform; time and again, politicians and parties respond to the college’s incentives, and more capacious and unifying majorities are born.Does this theory fit our current situation? In a sense, yes. Donald Trump could win the presidency without a popular-vote majority only because both parties have been locked into base-turnout strategies that are partially responsible for our government’s ineffectiveness and gridlock. And to the extent that Hillary Clinton’s campaign leaned into this polarization (writing off many constituencies that her husband competed for), she deserved her electoral-college loss.Trump could also only win the presidency without a popular-vote majority because a large region of the country, the greater Rust Belt and Appalachia, had been neglected by both parties’ policies over the preceding decades, leading to a slow-building social crisis that the national press only really noticed because of Trump’s political success. In this sense, Clinton’s weird post-election boast that her half of the country was way more economically dynamic indicated the advantages of a system where a declining region can punch above its popular-vote weight — because it makes it harder for a party associated with economic winners to simply write the losers off.However: This defense of occasional countermajoritarian presidencies assumes that the political system will, over the medium-term, be responsive to the Electoral College’s incentives — that parties will be capable of overcoming polarization and addressing specific regional grievances, that politicians will be capable of working toward Rooseveltian or Reaganesque majorities, that presidents who win with a popular-vote minority will either adapt and gain a majority the next time (as George W. Bush did) or lose like Benjamin Harrison and John Quincy Adams.And neither political party has responded to 2016 the way my defense of the Electoral College predicts they should. A countermajoritarian outcome has not produced supermajoritarian ambitions. Instead of trying to expand its base, the Trump-era G.O.P. seems to be relying on the Electoral College to actively avoid any sustained outreach, while Trump’s likely Democratic rivals seem to be taking Clinton’s popular-vote margin as a license to march leftward.This points to a reality that the college’s defenders need to recognize: If neither party can escape 50-50 politics, if polarization makes electoral/popular splits recur cycle after cycle, then the Electoral College’s arguable virtues will no longer apply, and it will just be one more delegimitizer in a system shadowed by partisan disillusionment, one more potential catalyst for a true constitutional crackup.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jason HorowitzVERONA — In a City Hall office decorated with ultrasound images of his children, a Crucifix and nesting dolls of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Mayor Federico Sboarina explained why he had sought to make Verona the first “Pro-Life City” in Italy.“This is the city of love, the city of Romeo and Juliet,” he said, “and the fruit of love is life.”Under his leadership, Verona passed an ordinance last year requiring women seeking an abortion, legalized in Italy in 1978, to first consult with anti-abortion groups offering financial assistance.The measure, which puts additional obstacles in front of women in a country where abortion can already be difficult to obtain, established Verona as Italy’s conservative center, a reputation that will receive further burnishing starting Friday, when this city in Italy’s north plays host to the annual World Congress of Families.The gathering is an international who’s who of anti-abortion and anti-gay hard-liners and has links to allies of Mr. Putin, who has emerged as a global icon for promoters of societies based on what they call “identity” and “tradition.”Verona’s anti-abortion campaign fits nicely with the broader aims of Italy’s new hard right, which is led by the interior minister, Matteo Salvini, the leader of the League Party, who is the conference’s headliner.Mr. Salvini has supplemented his anti-immigrant, law-and-order appeal by joining with traditionalist leaders in the Roman Catholic church to crusade for conservative social values.“The body of women has become a political battlefield,” said Giulia Siviero, a feminist activist who is planning to demonstrate against the World Congress of Families. “Slowly but surely, brick by brick, they are weakening the law.”Last year, she and others protested the anti-abortion ordinance in Verona by donning the red cloaks of a “Handmaid’s Tale” and crowding onto a gallery overlooking the City Hall chamber, where one city counselor greeted them with a fascist salute.Mr. Salvini and his allies contend that an erosion of the traditional family by liberal values has contributed to Italy’s troublingly low birthrate and loss of identity. Basically, they argue, that if Italians don’t have babies, they risk replacement by migrants — and Muslims — from Africa.“I can’t repopulate Calabria, Sardinia or Trentino with migrants paid with the money of Italians,” Mr. Salvini wrote on Twitter in November, referring to areas of Italy where the population is declining. He added that his plan was to repopulate the country with Italians, “not taking pieces of Africa and bringing them to Italy.”Women’s rights activists and others are concerned that Verona, once a stronghold of Mussolini, is slipping back into a flirtation with Fascism.They say Mr. Salvini is exploiting the abortion issue to promote an Italians First agenda, which includes an argument that abortion needs to be limited to increase the number of native Italians.Members within Mr. Salvini’s own governing coalition have raised objections about the families congress, which takes place from March 29-31. It was called a summit for “right-wing losers” by Deputy Prime Minister Luigi Di Maio, a leader of the anti-establishment Five Star Movement.On Tuesday, Mr. Salvini responded to concerns about the gathering’s agenda by asserting that the legality of abortion and divorce in Italy were not up for discussion.But activists are skeptical, especially when they talk about Italy’s families minister, Lorenzo Fontana — an arch-conservative, a Verona native and a member of Mr. Salvini’s League party — who is a driving force behind the gathering.Mr. Fontana marched at Verona’s 2015 anti-gay marriage demonstration behind a banner reading Verona Family Pride, along with Mr. Sboarina, the mayor, as well as local leaders of fascist, soccer hooligan and extremist groups. Mr. Salvini was part of his wedding party.The families minister has also said gay marriage, gender studies and mass migration are weakening traditional families and risk “the cancellation of our people.”Reversing Italy’s plunging birthrate has been made a priority of his ministry, and Mr. Fontana has chastised officials in Brussels for arguing that “an aging Europe needs migrants.”“For us,” he said, “an aging Europe needs a new generation of children.”An avid fan of Mr. Putin, he has also expressed hope for the return of a Christian Europe and called the fight against abortion “the final battle,” because “our populations are under attack.”Some former allies of Mr. Salvini and Mr. Fontana say that the two are purposefully echoing a sinister era in Italian history.“It recalls the fascist period when the argument about the birthrate was a main point,” said Flavio Tosi, the former mayor of Verona who himself came to power in 2007 with racially charged language and the support of far-right extremists.Mr. Tosi, a former patron of Mr. Fontana and Mr. Sboarina, lost a power struggle to lead the League to Mr. Salvini and was subsequently kicked out of the party.He added that his administration refused to bring the anti-abortion ordinance up for a vote because “it was insane,” and would have drawn national outrage. But now, he said, “the atmosphere has changed.”The measure was introduced by Alberto Zegler, a member of Verona’s City Council and the League party. Mr. Zegler, who wears a lapel pin in the shape of a baby’s foot, is also pushing to require the burial of aborted fetuses.He argued that the new ordinance was in no way a rollback of abortion rights but instead gave economic help to women in difficulty, whether single, “or maybe raped” or perhaps “having become a prostitute.”Plus, the demographic trends made abortion a danger to the nation’s future, he said.“If we don’t reverse the trend, in 50 years there will maybe be a huge reduction in the number of Italians,” he said.Similar demographic concerns, especially in Russia, led to the founding of the World Congress of Families in the 1990s. Now led by Brian Brown, who is also the president of the National Organization for Marriage, the organization’s funders have included Russian oligarchs, like Konstantin Malofeev, who is under American sanctions for his support of Russia’s annexation of Crimea.Mr. Malofeev figures prominently in Italian media allegations, so far unproven, that Mr. Salvini secretly received Russian funding to finance his campaigns. He is also close to the Russian representative of the World Congress of Families, Alexey Komov.Mr. Komov, in turn, is close to the Italian anti-abortion group Pro-Vita, a sponsor of the Verona conference, and which has links to Italy’s post-Fascist Forza Nuova party.The city councilor who gave the fascist salute to the feminist protesters is close to an extreme-right splinter group of Forza Nuova. Asked about the councilor, Mr. Sboarina, Verona’s mayor, said, “Let’s say he has that political area as his reference point” and added with a shrug, “I know a lot of people on the extreme right.”Around Verona, several people saw the anti-abortion ordinance and this week’s conference as an expression of the ascendance of right-wing politics.“If we really want to reduce the number of abortions, we should not be passing these ridiculous laws,” said Maria Geneth, 64, a gynecologist, as she attended Mass at the medieval Basilica of San Lorenzo in Verona. “We should be educating women about contraceptive measures and helping them improve their economic situation.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael M. GrynbaumNot long ago, Donna Brazile was the interim chairwoman of the Democratic Party and a strident critic of Fox News, accusing the network of bias and hyperbole.On Monday, Ms. Brazile announced that she had accepted a new job: on-air commentator on Fox News.Cue the record scratch.A deep-blue Democrat who managed Al Gore’s 2000 presidential campaign, Ms. Brazile has confounded expectations by taking a role at President Trump’s favorite cable news channel.“This is an opportunity to reach across the political aisle,” she told viewers during her debut appearance on Monday. Her interviewer, the host Dana Perino, called it “a bold move for you and for Fox.”It was also another step in Ms. Brazile’s gradual drift away from the Democratic establishment.Ms. Brazile became interim chairwoman of the party in July 2016. Days before Mr. Trump’s election in November, emails obtained by WikiLeaks revealed that Ms. Brazile, who worked for CNN at the time, had leaked debate questions in advance to her allies on Hillary Clinton’s campaign staff. CNN promptly fired her. Within a year, she antagonized Democrats with a provocative memoir that accused the party of taking steps to favor Mrs. Clinton over Senator Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primary campaign.Now, Ms. Brazile will appear on the network that her successor, Tom Perez, the Democratic Party chairman since February 2017, recently barred from sponsoring a party debate because of what he deemed an “inappropriate relationship” with Mr. Trump.In a statement issued on Monday, Ms. Brazile tried to anticipate any objections.“I know I’m going to get criticized from my friends in the progressive movement for being on Fox News,” she wrote. “My response is that, if we’ve learned anything from the 2016 election, it is that we can’t have a country where we don’t talk to those who disagree with our political views.“There’s an audience on Fox News that doesn’t hear enough from Democrats,” Ms. Brazile continued. “We have to engage that audience and show Americans of every stripe what we stand for rather than retreat into our ‘safe spaces’ where we simply agree with each other.”On the air with Ms. Perino on Monday afternoon, Ms. Brazile identified herself as “a progressive and a liberal.” She noted that she had occasionally appeared on Fox News in the past, including as a guest host of the opinionated talk show “The Five.”Fox News said Ms. Brazile would not be involved in debates or candidate town halls hosted by the network during the 2020 campaign.Ms. Brazile arrives at a tumultuous time for the network, which has been grappling with an uproar over offensive comments by two of its star commentators, Jeanine Pirro and Tucker Carlson. Fox News suspended Ms. Pirro after she questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States, a move that prompted Mr. Trump to reproach the network in a series of Twitter posts on Sunday.The president also criticized two of Fox News’s weekend anchors, Arthel Neville and Leland Vittert, along with its chief news anchor, Shepard Smith. Fox News has not commented on Mr. Trump’s tweets.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Shasta DarlingtonSÃO PAULO, Brazil — Former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of Brazil, who was jailed last April on a corruption conviction, was sentenced on Wednesday to nearly 13 more years in a new graft case, making it increasingly unlikely that a man once considered the lion of Latin America’s left would ever recover his political clout.Mr. da Silva, a two-time president who left office in 2011 with a record-high approval rating, was leading in the polls last year to win another term even after he went to jail. But less than a month before the vote, electoral authorities barred him from running because of the corruption conviction.In his absence, Jair Bolsonaro, a far-right candidate who vowed to eradicate a culture of corruption that he blamed on Mr. da Silva and his Workers’ Party, surged ahead. He was sworn in on Jan. 1.Mr. da Silva, 73, denies any wrongdoing, and his supporters have accused the courts and the country’s elites of political persecution to keep him from office.While Mr. da Silva had support among Brazil’s poor, he also had a high disapproval rating thanks to the Lava Jato, or Carwash, investigation, which documented the political corruption that flourished during the 13 years his party was in power.The charges against Mr. da Silva so far have been relatively small chapters in the annals of Lava Jato. He was found guilty in 2017 of accepting a seaside apartment in return for contracts awarded to the construction company O.A.S. and was eventually sentenced to 12 years and one month in prison.In the new ruling on Wednesday, Judge Gabriela Hardt found Mr. da Silva guilty of accepting bribes from construction companies in the form of a $235,000 renovation of a country house and sentenced him to 12 years and 11 months in prison. Mr. da Silva said his name was not on the title of the home, but prosecutors presented evidence that he and his family had occupied it.Ten other people were convicted, including top executives at the construction companies.In the sentencing document, Judge Hardt concluded that it was “beyond a reasonable doubt” that the renovations were funded illicitly by the construction companies Odebrecht and O.A.S.She said the former president “was aware that there were systematic bribes paid to the party he belonged to; he was very aware that part of those sums were used for his personal benefit.”Mr. da Silva, who has appealed his first conviction to Brazil’s top courts, is expected to appeal the latest decision, as well. He is a defendant in at least six other cases.“The persecution of Lula doesn’t stop,” the president of the Workers’ Party, Gleisi Hoffmann, wrote on social media. “In the memory of the people and history, Lula will always be greater than his executioners.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byHis populist attacks on the priorities of the “ruling class” have set off a maelstrom.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.Competing notions of American national identity are coming to dominate American politics.On Jan. 2, a searing Tucker Carlson monologue on Fox News resonated across every corner of the conservative movement.“The goal for America is both simpler and more elusive than mere prosperity,” Carlson told his audience. “Dignity. Purpose. Self-control. Independence. Above all, deep relationships with other people.”President Trump is one of the most dedicated Fox viewers in the country. Carlson went on:Our leaders don’t care. We are ruled by mercenaries who feel no long-term obligation to the people they rule. They’re day traders. Substitute teachers. They’re just passing through. They have no skin in this game, and it shows. They can’t solve our problems. They don’t even bother to understand our problems.Carlson, who is in a ratings race with both his Fox colleague Sean Hannity and MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow, argued that many conservatives have scant understanding of the adversity faced by members of the working and lower middle class in America:The idea that families are being crushed by market forces seems never to occur to them. They refuse to consider it. Questioning markets feels like apostasy. Both sides miss the obvious point: Culture and economics are inseparably intertwined. Certain economic systems allow families to thrive. Thriving families make market economies possible.Carlson pointed specifically to problems faced by rural white America, the crucial base of Republican voters: “Stunning out of wedlock birthrates. High male unemployment. A terrifying drug epidemic.” How, Carlson asked, “did this happen?” You’d think our ruling class would be interested in knowing the answer. But mostly they’re not. They don’t have to be interested. It’s easier to import foreign labor to take the place of native-born Americans who are slipping behind.Despite this failing of conservatism, Carlson contended that only the Republican Party can lead the country back to salvation:There’s no option at this point. But first, Republican leaders will have to acknowledge that market capitalism is not a religion. Market capitalism is a tool, like a staple gun or a toaster. You’d have to be a fool to worship it. Our system was created by human beings for the benefit of human beings. We do not exist to serve markets. Just the opposite. Any economic system that weakens and destroys families is not worth having. A system like that is the enemy of a healthy society.The Carlson monologue became an extended subject of debate, which my Times colleague Ross Douthat also examined. For example, in “The Right Should Reject Tucker Carlson’s Victimhood Populism,” David French, a senior writer at National Review, argued that “it is still true that your choices are far more important to your success than any government program or the actions of any nefarious banker or any malicious feminist.”“If an obscure senator gave this speech, he’d be famous overnight,” Kyle Smith, a critic at large for National Review, wrote the next day. “Carlson scores some major points, and like most great speeches this one can’t easily be dismissed as either left or right-wing.”Carlson touched nerves well outside conservative circles. I asked Dean Baker, co-founder of the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research, for his response to the monologue. He replied: “It’s a bit scary to me how much of this I agree with.” Baker quibbled with some minor points, butignoring these off the mark comments, he is absolutely right that the leadership of both parties has largely embraced an agenda that serves the rich with little concern for average workers.In addition to Carlson, one of the most engaged critics of the Republican establishment is Oren Cass, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute and the author of “The Once and Future Worker.”In his book, Cass faults both parties, but his condemnation of the Democratic Party is far harsher than his critique of the Republican Party:Republicans have generally trusted that free markets will benefit all participants, prized the higher output associated with an ‘efficient’ outcome, and expressed skepticism that political actors could identify and pursue better outcomes, even if any existed. Their labor-market policy could best be described as one of benign neglect.Democrats, in contrast,can sound committed to a more worker-centric model of growth, but rather than trusting the market too much, they trample it. The party’s actual agenda centers on the interests advanced by its coalition of labor unions, environmentalists, and identity groups. Its policies rely on an expectation that government mandates and programs will deliver what the market does not. This agenda inserts countless regulatory wedges that aim to improve the conditions of employment but in the process raise its cost, driving apart the players that the market is attempting to connect.In a Salon review of “The Once and Future Worker,” Samuel Hammond, director of welfare policy at the libertarian Niskanen Center — a Washington a think tank I described last week — writes:Indeed, far from the usual conservative manifesto, ‘The Once and Future Worker,’ is a scathing critique of globalization, open immigration, and the commoditization of labor — forces which Cass believes have ransacked working class fortunes across three decades of neoliberal hegemony.Cass is eager to place himself at the disposal of both parties. He was one of 13 ideologically ambidextrous authors of a joint Brookings-American Enterprise Institute report, “Work, Skills, Community: Restoring Opportunity for the Working Class.” The November 2018 study pointed to areas of concord between segments of the right and the left.The 13 authors found common ground on a set of proposals that call for both more spending and tougher work requirements. These proposals include expanding the earned-income tax credit to cover childless workers, including experimenting with a new wage subsidy; getting recipients of government subsidies back to work, including beneficiaries of means-tested government programs; and enlarging eligibility for the child and dependent care tax credit.While it is possible, in theory, that Carlson and Cass could support Democratic candidates, they sharply disagree with the Democratic Party on the highly salient issue of immigration.In his book, Cass writes:The United States should limit increases in its supply of unskilled immigrant labor. This new approach would require first and foremost that criteria for allowing entrance into the country emphasize education level — attainment of a college degree, in particular.In the case of undocumented immigrants, Cass’s policy would be to “require unskilled illegal immigrants to leave.”Carlson is more extreme. On Dec. 4, Carlson told viewers that “a new analysis of census data shows that sixty-three percent of noncitizens in the U.S. receive some kind of welfare benefits,” before adding:Every night, hundreds of thousands of our citizens, Americans, sleep outdoors on the street, they’re homeless. The country’s middle class is shrinking and dying younger. The third year in a row. Again, these are American citizens. Some of them probably think they should have first dibs on help from the government, but they’re not getting it.Later that month, Carlson escalated his claim that immigration was too costly for Americans:It’s indefensible, so nobody even tries to defend it. Instead, our leaders demand that you shut up and accept this. We have a moral obligation to admit the world’s poor, they tell us, even if it makes our own country poor and dirtier and more divided.These comments proved highly controversial, to say the least. According to Business Insider, 16 companies stopped advertising on “The Tucker Carlson Show.”Michael Massing, a New York-based writer who often reports on the intersection of media and politics, watched Carlson for several nights after the January monologue in an attempt to assess where Carlson really stood. In a Feb. 2 article in the Guardian, Massing wrote:Overall, his show continues to transmit Fox’s toxic blend of race-baiting and reality distortion, through which it has done so much to poison the American mind. What, then, to make of Carlson? Is he a cynic? A hypocrite? A headlong pursuer of ratings? Perhaps he’s best described as a charter member of the same ruling class that in his monologue he indicted for working so intently to divide and confuse the American people.In addition to the discrete conservative factions Cass and Carlson represent, there is another dissident wing of conservatism, represented by the Niskanen Center, which attempts to appeal to moderates and centrists of both parties.“Working within the broad and diverse intellectual tradition of liberalism, we are fashioning a new synthesis that closes the rift within that tradition that emerged over the question of socialism,” Brink Lindsey, the center’s vice president for policy, wrote in an essay seeking to explain the broad goals of the organization.Lindsey, in contrast to Cass, is far more critical of the contemporary right than of the left.Over the course of the 21st century, the conservative movement, and with it the Republican Party, has fallen ever more deeply under the sway of an illiberal and nihilistic populism — illiberal in its crude exploitation of religious, racial, and cultural divisions; nihilistic in its blithe indifference to governance and the established norms and institutions of representative self-government. This malignant development made possible the nomination and election of Donald Trump, whose two years in power have only accelerated conservatism’s and the GOP’s descent into the intellectual and moral gutter.Despite his severe view of the Republican Party, Lindsey contends that the goal of the Niskanen think tank is the “reimagining of the center-right”:It is our goal to make the case for a principled center-right in American politics today that is distinctly different from either movement conservatism or its degenerate, populist offshoot.One question, of course is, what kind of policy options a center-right think tank can offer to disaffected voters on matters involving race and immigration, subjects that help drive the very polarization they regret.One of Tucker Carlson’s own primary concerns is immigration — and, as a likely subtext, race.Carlson argues that capitalism is “not a religion but a tool like a toaster or staple gun.” He is focusing attention, in fact, on the godless capitalism that Will Wilkinson of the Niskanen Center, described in “How Godless Capitalism Made America Multicultural” — a problem that Wilkinson correctly points out affects “all wealthy, liberal-democratic countries.”Wilkinson explains:The project of fashioning an ethnoreligious American identity has always been in conflict with a dominant and defining American impulse: to get rich. The United States has always been a distinctly commercial republic with expansionary, imperial impulses. High demand for workers and settlers led early on to a variegated population that encouraged the idea, largely traceable to Tom Paine, that American national identity is civic and ideological rather than racial and ethnic.Contemporary political polarization reflects the intensification of the endless struggle to integrate America and, more recently, to assimilate millions of newcomers, some legal, some not.Wilkinson addresses this conundrum:Assimilation is an issue not because it isn’t happening, but because it is. The issue is that the post-1968 immigrants and their progeny are here at all. And their successful assimilation means that American culture, and American national identity, has already been updated and transformed.This process can be very hard for some people, especially white voters over 50 (a strong Trump constituency) to accept:Swift and dramatic cultural changes can leave us with the baffled feeling that the soil in which we laid down roots has somehow become foreign. Older people who have largely lost the capacity to easily assimilate to a new culture can feel that the rug has been pulled out from under them.The result, according to Wilkinson, to whom I will give the last word, is thatrapid cultural change can make a truly common national identity hard to come by, if not impossible. It’s not clear to me how important it is to have one. But it does seem that a badly bifurcated cultural self-understanding can have very dramatic and potentially dangerous political consequences. David Cameron imperiled the integrity of the entire European Union by fundamentally misunderstanding the facts about the evolution of British national identity and putting it up for a vote. Donald Trump, you may have noticed, has called for a referendum on American national identity, and he’s getting one.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byJew hatred has re-entered the European mainstream.  It makes an irrefutable case for the need for a Jewish homeland.By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistLONDON — Europe’s gathering Jewish question came into sharp focus this month when a British M.P. declared that she had come to the “sickening conclusion” that one of the country’s two main political parties, Labour, is now “institutionally anti-Semitic.”Imagine, to gauge the import of this statement, Bernie Sanders suggesting the same thing of the Democrats.Jew hatred has re-entered the European mainstream through a toxic amalgam of spillover from vilification of Israel, the return of the Jewish plutocrat as hated symbol of the 1 percent, and the resurgence of the Jewish “cosmopolitan” as the target of ascendant nationalists convinced a cabal of Jews runs the world.The British politician was Luciana Berger, who is Jewish and has been M.P. for Liverpool and Wavertree since 2010. She has watched, with dismay, as Jeremy Corbyn has allowed a demonological view of Israel to foster Jew hatred in the Labour Party since taking over its leadership in 2015.So, I asked in an interview, is Corbyn an anti-Semite? “Well,” she said, “he’s certainly been responsible for sharing platforms with anti-Semites and saying things that are highly offensive and anti-Semitic.”Corbyn, Berger suggested, has contrived to make British Jews different in some way, a process she called “othering.” She’s had to endure “pictures of Stars of David superimposed on my forehead, and my face imposed on a rat, or many rats. There are pornographic images, violent images, oversize features like a witch. You name it, they’ve done it.” Nine months pregnant, the mother of a small child, she’s faced death threats and has to take security measures “a lot more now than I did before.”Not all the anti-Semitic slurs have come from within the party, but the volume of attacks from the left has convinced Berger she had to quit Labour. “I didn’t make that decision lightly,” she told me, having always believed that Labour was Britain’s anti-racist party par excellence.Corbyn, who has taken the party sharply leftward from the now reviled Blairite center, and whose anti-Zionism has long been apparent, has insisted, “I’m not an anti-Semite in any form.” He has promised (and promised and promised) to rid the Labour Party of any such poison.There’s nothing anti-Semitic about sympathy for the Palestinian cause or support of Palestinian statehood or disdain for the rightist government of the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and its kick-the-can policies to prolong or eternize the occupation of the West Bank. That should be obvious.But where anti-Zionism crosses into anti-Semitism should also be obvious: dehumanizing or demonizing Jews and propagating the myth of their sinister omnipotence; accusing Jews of double loyalties as a means to suggest their national belonging is of lesser worth; denying the Jewish people’s right to self-determination; blaming through conflation all Jews for the policies of the Israeli government; pursuing the systematic “Nazification” of Israel; turning Zionism into a synonym of racism.The denial of the millennial Jewish link to the Holy Land and the dismissal of the legal basis for the modern Jewish state in United Nations Resolution 181 of 1947 (Arab armies went to war against its Palestinian-Jewish territorial compromise and lost) as a means to argue for the abolition of the Jewish homeland and portray it as an immoral, colonial exercise in theft often flirts with anti-Semitism. It is at its most egregious when it issues from Europeans who seem to have forgotten where the Holocaust was perpetrated. Once in the gas chambers was enough for the Jews.For Corbyn, who turns 70 this year, misunderstandings or imprecision explain incidents like his description of British Zionists as having “no sense of English irony;” or his inviting to Parliament a Palestinian Islamist who had suggested Jews were absent from the World Trade Center on 9/11 (“I have on occasion appeared on platforms with people whose views I completely reject,” Corbyn says); or his appearance in 2014 at a wreath-laying ceremony in Tunis that appears to have honored Palestinians associated with the 1972 Munich Olympics terrorist attack that killed 11 Israelis.(Corbyn has said he was present but “not involved” in the wreath laying and that he attended out of a desire to see “a fitting memorial to everyone who has died in every terrorist incident everywhere.”)The semantic evasions and denials that Corbyn “just kind of trots out,” in Berger’s words, have not dented the persistence of the problem, to the point that she’s had it: “Enough is enough.”Berger is not alone. Eight other Labour M.P.s have quit the party, mainly in protest at Corbyn’s leftward lurch and rule by diktat. All but one of them, Ian Austin, who decried Labour’s “culture” of anti-Semitism, have joined a new Independent Group, bolstered by three Conservative parliamentarians, in an attempt to rebuild the British political center.The jolt to Labour seems to have galvanized the party to confront the seeping infiltration of anti-Semitism. Tom Watson, the deputy leader, has called on Corbyn to expel Labour members accused of anti-Semitism. They’ve tended to face mild reprimands, if that. John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor, said there’d been “a lot of listening but not enough action.” Jon Lansman, a founder of the Momentum organization that has supported Corbyn, now says there is “a major problem” with “hard-core anti-Semitic opinion.” Where have these guys been in recent years during what Pat McFadden, another Labour M.P., described to me as “open season for the abuse of my Jewish colleagues”?In a typical incident this week, a Labour M.P. who is a Corbyn ally, Chris Williamson, tried to express regret for saying the party had been “too apologetic” about anti-Semitism, only to claim in his “apology” that it is “often forgotten” how few cases of anti-Semitism there are. He has been suspended.Under Corbyn, actions have usually lagged words. The party decided in 2016 that “Zio,” an insult used by the Ku Klux Klan, was unacceptable. Its use persists as an abbreviation of Zionist, itself turned into a dirty word.“I am very proud and very relaxed about the fact that I openly support the creation of the State of Israel and the right for the Jewish people to have a homeland,” Berger said, noting that she’s a Zionist but “others have sought to hijack the word” and “we know” what “language can inspire and what actions it can result in.”We do. This month, Yellow Vest protesters in Paris accosted Alain Finkielkraut, a leading French essayist and the son of an Auschwitz survivor. Their abuse included cries of “Back to Tel Aviv” and “France belongs to us.” A Jewish cemetery was desecrated. Anti-Semitic incidents rose 74 percent in France in 2018.The eternal Jewish ogre resurfaces — a convenient scapegoat for economic resentments, precariousness, fear, frustration or Israel’s oppression of Palestinians. Corbyn, wittingly or not, has fed this poison, as his party is now realizing. He has made an irrefutable case for Israel through Labour’s abetting of revived European Jew hatred.The fundamental link between European anti-Semitism, annihilationist at its apogee, and the decision of Jews to embrace Zionism in the conviction that only a Jewish homeland could keep them safe is something contemporary European theorists of a demonic Israel prefer to forget. This amnesia is an additional reason that I, too, like Berger, am a proud Zionist.A homeland for the Jewish people, which is what the State of Israel was created to be, can’t be majority Palestinian. At the same time, a legitimate democracy can’t deny rights to a national minority. Israel walks this fine line; in the 52-year-old West Bank occupation it tramples on it. That is why Israel needs a two-state solution. There is no other way to remain Jewish and democratic, no other way to escape the insidious moral corrosion of dominion.I don’t believe Jews would be just fine without Israel any more than I believe the moon is a balloon. To criticize Israel is imperative; to disavow it, for a Jew, a form of ahistorical folly.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byLethal partisanship is taking us into dangerous territory.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.A recent survey asked Republicans and Democrats whether they agreed with the statement that members of the opposition party “are not just worse for politics — they are downright evil.”The answers, published in January in a paper, “Lethal Mass Partisanship,” were startling, but maybe they shouldn’t have been.Just over 42 percent of the people in each party view the opposition as “downright evil.” In real numbers, this suggests that 48.8 million voters out of the 136.7 million who cast ballots in 2016 believe that members of opposition party are in league with the devil.The mass partisanship paper was written by Nathan P. Kalmoe and Lilliana Mason, political scientists at Louisiana State University and the University of Maryland.Kalmoe and Mason, taking the exploration of partisan animosity a step farther, found that nearly one out of five Republicans and Democrats agree with the statement that their political adversaries “lack the traits to be considered fully human — they behave like animals.”Their line of questioning did not stop there.How about: “Do you ever think: ‘we’d be better off as a country if large numbers of the opposing party in the public today just died’?”Some 20 percent of Democrats (that translates to 12.6 million voters) and 16 percent of Republicans (or 7.9 million voters) do think on occasion that the country would be better off if large numbers of the opposition died.We’re not finished: “What if the opposing party wins the 2020 presidential election. How much do you feel violence would be justified then?” 18.3 percent of Democrats and 13.8 percent of Republicans said violence would be justified on a scale ranging from “a little” to “a lot.”Kalmoe and Mason analyzed the data to see what kind of voter was likely to adopt extremely critical views of the opposition party: Strongly identifying with one political side is associated with increased political hostility toward opponents in terms of moral disengagement, partisan schadenfreude, and partisan violence.One personal trait stood out: “Aggression was the only factor that predicted all three types of lethal partisan attitudes.”Contrary to the expectation that the losers of elections might be more inclined to violence, the two authors determined that winning increases support for violence against the opposition.There was “significantly more support for partisan violence among strong partisans when told their party was more likely than not to win in 2020.”Overall, the authors wrote, “our evidence suggests that winning more than losing prompts strong partisans to feel less opposed to partisan violence.”As partisan hostility deepens, there is one group that might ordinarily be expected to help pull the electorate out of this morass — the most knowledgeable and sophisticated voters.According to a forthcoming study, however, it is just these voters who display the most uncritical acceptance of party orthodoxy, left or right. On both sides, the best informed voters are by far the most partisan.In “Understanding Partisan Cue Receptivity,” Bert N. Bakker and Yphtach Lelkes, professors at the Amsterdam School of Communication Research and the University of Pennsylvania, and Ariel Malka, a professor of psychology at Yeshiva University, find that knowledgeable, politically engaged voters are the most likely “to adopt issue attitudes that are cued as party-consistent in the political information environment.” In plain language, the most active voters — those notably “high in cognitive resources” — are the most willing to accept policy positions endorsed by their party, and they are doing so not out of principle, but to affirm their identity as a Democrat or Republican. They are expressing “the desire to reach conclusions that are consistent with a valued identity.”The authors call this process “identity expression” or a “tendency of partisans to adopt issue attitudes that are cued as party-consistent in the political information environment.”This willingness to adopt a policy position not out of conviction but out of a desire to conform to partisan priorities reflects an urge, they write, “to bolster and protect valued political identities by expressing and rationalizing the viewpoints cued to be consistent with these identities.”In an email, Lelkes wrote that he and his co-authors felt it important “to be careful about causal reasoning.” They concluded their article with this commentary:Ironically, reflective citizens, who are sometimes seen as ideal citizens, might be the subset of strong partisan identifiers most likely to fall in line with the party. Since higher levels of cognitive resources and partisan social identity are associated with higher levels of political activism, the effect may be self-reinforcing, wherein political elites polarize the strongly identified and cognitively reflective, who then elect more polarized elites. The democratic dilemma may not be whether low information citizens can learn what they need to know, but whether high information citizens can set aside their partisan predispositions.These two papers raise a set of basic questions about group identity: Why are partisan divisions sharpening now and are these conflicts likely to become more aggravated?Robert Kurzban, the author of “The Hidden Agenda of the Political Mind,” argues that domestic politics have taken on a moralistic, judgmental cast:There is a rise in “purity tests” for politicians, such that if they do not adopt the line of the party on core issues — especially those to do with identity politics — they are subject to round condemnation.Any deviation, Kurzban continued in an email, is likely to be severely punished: Being just a tiny bit out of step is seen as grievous a sin as being completely out of step. People are seeing others’ positions as categorical rather than continuous.Steven Pinker, a professor of psychology at Harvard, argues that it is the activation of group identity — of the friend-enemy type, about which I have written before — that is driving hostile polarization:Certainly there is a tribal flavor to political polarization. Men’s testosterone rises or falls on election night, depending on whether their side wins, just as it does on Super Bowl Sunday.But, he continued,the coalitions clustering at the poles are not tribes in the classical anthropological sense. Today’s left- and right-wingers for the most part aren’t inventing myths of shared blood and common ancestry, or binding together in ritual ordeals, or blending in appearance with a common uniform.Instead, Pinker argued,I think we’re seeing a somewhat different psychological phenomenon: dynamically sorting ourselves into coalitions defined by moralistic condemnation of designated enemies.Pinker cited the questions raised in the work of Kurzban and Peter DeScioli, a political scientist at Stony Brook, wonderingwhy so much of our moralizing does not consist in pondering how to universalize the maxim of our actions or to bring about the greatest good for the greatest number, but rather of condemning, demonizing, or scapegoating a designated sinner.DeScioli provided some answers to the question in his replies to my queries:Our coalitional psychology goes far beyond a simple distinction between us and them. We form coalitions nested within coalitions, and our loyalties can suddenly shift. Our minds keep track of other individuals’ allies and enemies in an ornate network of loyalties. Conflicts routinely occur within a group, and generally more often than against outgroups. We use aggression as a tactic both within and between groups, and we do so cautiously, weighing the costs and benefits. Our coalitional psychology is more like a Machiavellian playbook of strategies than a simple reflex of hostility toward an outgroup. Partisan hostility is certainly a form of coalitional aggression rooted in evolved strategies, but so are the prudent strategies of peace and compromise.Moral condemnation, DeScioli wrote, is aprime suspect behind partisan hostility. Moral judgment inspires outrage and a desire to punish wrongdoers, forming a potent source of aggression. I have argued that moral judgment is an evolved strategy for choosing sides in conflicts. We seek retribution not only to deter harmful behavior but also to show which side we are on in a dispute.Moral condemnation and approbation can both be useful to encourage productive cooperation within a group, but they can also be deeply destructive when used to demonize and humiliate outsiders.John Hibbing, a political scientist at the University of Nebraska, makes the case that polarization has intensified becausethe central political issues of the day revolve around in-group versus out-group, the definition of the in-group, and the unity and security of the in-group.While as recently as 30 years ago, there were a fair number of conservative Democrats and liberal Republicans who held views contrary to the majority of their respective parties, Hibbing wrote,the problem today is that there are so few cross-cutting cleavages. There is only one cleavage and it is the most evolutionarily primal cleavage of them all.Hibbing dismissed the argument that people have “become tribal because of changes in the media environment.” Instead, he wrote,people became tribal because the fundamental substantive issues today are about tribe. We are a group-based species.Kevin Smith, who is also a political scientist at the University of Nebraska, argues that humans are incredibly groupish creatures — as a species we’re pretty hard wired to make “us v them” categorizations.For much of the twentieth century, according to this line of thinking, the first world war, the Great Depression, the second world war and the Cold War filled much of the need for an in-group versus out-group configuration. During this period, Smith said, there were consensual “sources of information” and political parties “that were relatively nonideological” with many members “willing to cross the aisle to cut deals.”In recent years, “a lot of that has gone,” Smith told me. “Political parties are now deeply ideological,” which makes it easier toappeal to our “us versus them” instinct. Indeed, it makes it more and more likely that we emotionally attach ourselves to a particularly political group, remain reflexively loyal to it, and automatically denigrate anyone who disagrees with it — we are indeed hard-wired for this sort of thing and political parties have, in effect, organized themselves around, and are now appealing directly to, that part of our psychology which is, and always has been, more emotional than rational.When, if ever, will things improve? Jonathan Haidt, a psychologist at N.Y.U., is not optimistic. He emailed:I am expecting that America’s political dysfunction and anger will worsen, and will continue to worsen even after Donald Trump leaves the White House.Why?The reasons for my pessimism are that 1) social media gets ever more effective at drowning us in outrage; 2) overall trust in institutions continues to decline, which makes it seem ever more urgent that “our” side take total control; 3) the younger generations have not seen effective political institutions or norms during their lives, and also seem less adept at handling political disagreements; and 4) the norms of campus regarding call-out culture seem to be spreading quickly into business and many other institutions.Two of the most insightful people on evolved human behavior are Leda Cosmides and John Tooby, professors of psychology and anthropology at the University of California, Santa Barbara.Cosmides and Tooby explore the complexities and ambiguities of moral reasoning in their seminal essay “Groups in Mind: The Coalitional Roots of War and Morality,” which concludes on an appropriately ambiguous note:The set of evolved programs that enable and drive warfare and politics strongly overlap with the set of evolved programs that drive human morality. The mapping of these evolved programs and their embedded circuit logic is only in its infancy, and we have only sketched out some of the known or predicted features of our coalitional and moral psychologies. However, progress in this enterprise holds out the possibility of gradually throwing light on some of the darkest areas of human life.In a lengthy email that I cannot fully do justice to in this column, Tooby wrote that everybodybenefits from participating in groups of alliances and factions on different scales, and people also benefit by fractionating solidarity in such a way that those on the far side of the boundary seem undesirable, worth spurning, contemptible, deplorable.This, in turn, encourages evolved mental programs that support self-advantageous information warfare: Of all the signals an individual hears, and out of all the spontaneous thoughts that teem in our minds, each individual filters, remembers, and broadcasts what benefits her in building up herself and her allies, and downgrades those who are her rivals.Tooby added: “I think we cannot begin to appreciate how immense and all-encompassing this process is.”Tooby pointed to group pressure to adopt down the line agreement on issues when there is, in fact, much room for dissent and disagreement:There is no necessary reason why someone’s position on abortion should predict their position on global warming should predict their position on welfare should predict their position on school choice should predict their position on illegal immigration. These are all entirely logically independent, yet there is a natural tendency for alliance gravitation to pull people into sets — often binary sets — because issues are more often flags of identity, and it creates in-group dissension to have a multiplicity of views inside the group.Even more important, he writes,Honest reasoning about issues is inconsistent with group loyalty. To be a good group member, I should adhere to a position because it is the group’s position, while believing that the facts justify it.Leda Cosmides expressed some of her ideas about the connection between us-and-them thinking and evil, the topic with which I began this column, in an interview that was originally published in a Chilean newspaper in 2001 and still resonates:The world has many people with evil motives, who will twist whatever ideas are around them to their own ends. Hitler, for example, was more influenced by folk notions about “blood” (found everywhere) than by any real biological knowledge.She went on:Since the Enlightenment, people have been trying to build bridges between disciplines, and when they do, new insights are achieved and humanity benefits. Should the healing arts have been kept separate from biology? If they had, we would not have antibiotics and modern medicine. Should psychology be kept separate from biology? If it is, we will never understand how the mind works. As a result, we will never understand how to make war less likely, how to cure autism, how to help people understand risk, or how to prevent racism, to name just a few problems on which evolutionary psychologists are making progress. Indeed, if we keep psychology separate from biology, people will continue to believe that “race” is a sensible concept; in contrast, human population biology tells us that humanity is not divided into distinct “races.”This work is far from done.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe left’s war on centrism bodes ill for Democratic chances in 2020.By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistHoward Schultz of Starbucks fame told “60 Minutes” on Sunday that he was “seriously thinking” about an independent bid for the presidency, and boy oh boy are liberals and progressives unhappy with the idea. The lifelong Democrat has suddenly morphed, in the eyes of his new detractors, into a vainglorious upstart, entitled rich guy, and potential spoiler who could hand the election to Donald Trump.Could be. But the neuralgic reaction to his bid says something about the ideological drift of the Democratic Party — and of its vulnerabilities against a historically weak president.So what has Schultz done to deserve his Two Minutes Hate? His political views bear about as much resemblance to those of a typical conservative as an olive does to a grape. He supports Obamacare, denounced the Trump administration’s decision to leave the Paris Climate Accord, and promised to hire 10,000 refugees globally in response to the 2017 travel ban. He was raised in a Brooklyn housing project and was the first person in his family to go to college. His billions were fairly earned offering products and services people want.Schultz’s politics are to the left of mine, but I would vote for someone like him in a heartbeat if the other names on the ballot are Trump and, say, Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren. Isn’t candidate diversity supposed to be something liberals believe in?I’m not alone. Tens of millions of Americans were defined as the “Exhausted Majority” by last year’s pathbreaking “Hidden Tribes” report from the More In Common research group. It found that two-thirds of Americans are neither conservatives nor progressives. They are moderates, liberals and the disengaged, defined by their ideological flexibility, support for compromise, fatigue with the political debate — and the sense that they’re being ignored and forgotten.“America’s Exhausted Majority wants to see the opposing tribes move beyond constant conflict,” the report notes. “Many who have disengaged from politics (especially in the Passive Liberal and Politically Disengaged groups) cite the tribal behavior of political combatants as a reason.”An independent candidacy like Schultz’s exists to appeal to this silent majority. Can it succeed? My colleague Jamelle Bouie wrote a powerful column explaining why it’s never worked before in U.S. history and is even less likely to work for Schultz. He represents no sectional, factional, ideological or economic interest, the way Strom Thurmond, George Wallace, Henry Wallace, or Ross Perot did. His views amount to a kind of warmed-over Clintonism, hopefully without scandal but 20 years past its sell-by date.Then again, if the argument is that a New York plutocrat can’t win in a populist era — well, hello? And if the argument is that you can’t win without the support of a major party, recall also that the party system has never been weaker than it is today. We live in a politically entrepreneurial age. Schultz is an entrepreneur.But even if Schultz’s chances as an independent are slim, what’s certain is that they are becoming much slimmer as a Democrat. This is what makes the insistence of some liberals that he run as a Democrat so disingenuous: Compete on our turf where the field will be tilted against you, or don’t compete at all. It’s hard to blame Schultz for walking away from that Hobson’s choice.It’s hard to blame him, too, for walking away from Democrats altogether. Liberalism used to be about making the capitalist system fairer, gentler and more inclusive. It has become an ideology for maligning it as a “rigged system” (Elizabeth Warren), or eliminating an entire industry within it (Kamala Harris), or demonizing and punishing those who do exceptionally well at it (Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez), or waging class warfare (all of the above).That means that if Schultz doesn’t run and a candidate like Warren wins the Democratic nomination, the same reluctant G.O.P. voters who handed the presidency to Trump in 2016 because they found Hillary Clinton even more unpalatable will vote for him again. How to avoid that wretched outcome?Democrats could resist the type of ideological fury that tilted Republicans sharply right in 2016 by rejecting a sharp move to the left next year. But that’s more easily said than done when progressive paragons proclaim that old-fashioned Democratic centrism is the new fanaticism.These paragons could also correct some of the magical thinking when it comes to free college tuition, a 70 percent tax rate on the wealthiest, or a Sanders-style health care system. Without some reality checks, Democratic primary voters might be gulled by the left-wing version of the fairy dust Trump voters inhaled when they bought into promises about Mexico paying for the wall.In the meantime, a potential Schultz candidacy can serve the useful function of reminding Democrats that he really could throw the election to Trump if they continue moving farther to the left. The best way to diminish that possibility isn’t to scream at him. It’s to listen to the forgotten voters he potentially represents. If Democrats don’t want to lose the 2020 election, they would do better to reclaim the center than to pretend they can redefine it.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]O.K., brace yourself. We might just be having a moment in politics this week.No, I’m not talking about Beto O’Rourke, the telegenic former Texas congressman whose newly launched presidential campaign prompted wall-to-wall media coverage today.I’m talking about what’s been happening in Congress.A quick catch-up: Today, a dozen Republicans in the Senate voted with Democrats to reject President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency to secure funding for his border wall. Their rebuke comes just hours after the House — in an overwhelming, bipartisan, 420-0 vote — backed a resolution urging the Justice Department to publicly release the special counsel’s report on Russian interference in the 2016 election. And it comes a day after the Senate voted to end support for the Saudi-led war in Yemen, an effort seen as a reproach of the president’s defense of the kingdom after the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi.Practically, this all means very little. The House resolution cannot force the Justice Department to release more of the report. And Mr. Trump has made it clear that he will veto the other two measures — a step his opponents don’t have the numbers to override in the Senate.But politically, the trifecta of rejections tells us that Mr. Trump’s grip on congressional Republicans may be loosening. The political ground may be ever so slightly shifting — and with it, the control Mr. Trump has over his party.As we’ve written before, the president remains overwhelmingly popular with his base. There is no groundswell of anti-Trump sentiment in the Republican Party. Two of the most vulnerable Republican senators, Thom Tillis of North Carolina and Cory Gardner of Colorado, stuck with the president. (Mr. Tillis flipped his position after talks with the White House and rumblings of a primary challenge.)Republican defectors stress that their opposition is not personal but institutional. Spending money and declaring war are foundational powers assigned in the Constitution to Congress. By ceding to the president the right to declare a national emergency, they’d essentially be weakening their own power — and their leverage for the next negotiation with the White House.“I believe the use of emergency powers in this circumstance violates the Constitution,” said Senator Jerry Moran, Republican of Kansas, in a statement written on lined paper and published on Twitter.But it’s also important to look at these votes in context of this political moment. The White House is under siege from congressional investigations, and the special counsel report is looming. Mr. Trump’s approval ratings hover around 40 percent.With the 2020 campaign well underway, some Republicans may be calibrating their views for their own re-election races in purple states. Others, like Senators Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, may be imagining a post-Trump political world.We don’t know exactly how Mr. Trump, a man who deeply values loyalty, will handle this type of rebuke from his own party. It’s awfully hard not to picture him taking it personally.In the past, Mr. Trump has gleefully taken credit for “retiring” critics like former Senator Jeff Flake and Republican House members who rejected “the embrace” of the White House — losses that cost his party control of the House.But he may find that there’s some power in numbers: Targeting a pack of a dozen Republicans is harder than picking off a few strays.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________This is The Soapbox, a forum for you to share your thoughts with us and your fellow On Politics readers.Earlier this week, we looked at Beto O’Rourke’s unorthodox path to the 2020 primary — the lonely road trips, the Kerouac-like blog posts — and wondered how it would have been perceived if he were a female candidate. Now that he has officially entered the race, we wanted to share some responses that we received this week.“I totally agree with you on the double standard for male/female candidates,” Judith wrote. “Beto O’Rourke is an egocentric and most unappealing potential candidate — I hope he sinks slowly in the west.”“Who cares why Beto O’Rourke spent the last several months on the road? Any effect on his family is between him and his family,” wrote Anne. She said her concern was with his policies (or lack thereof): “‘Not Ted Cruz’ and ‘Not Donald Trump’ and ‘but so many Texans like him’ aren’t sufficient reasons for me to make a decision about whether I’d want to trust him with running this country.”[Here’s a look at where Mr. O’Rourke stands on some of the biggest issues of the 2020 race.]“Unless I completely miss my guess, Beto is a flash in the pan,” Mina wrote. “Had there not been a Donald Trump, a crazy person, following Obama, a well-educated, amazing president, there would be no Beto having the audacity to think he could be president!”“I don’t begrudge Beto’s unorthodox style of ‘campaigning’ and don’t hold against him being male and running for office in that way,” wrote Karen, who described herself as a veteran political activist. “The one thing which Beto has that no other candidate who is running has is that he is genuine and speaks from his heart (not his head). Most of my friends are politicians or former politicians, and no one is like Beto.”If you want to share your thoughts, send us an email: onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________• A mob boss’s killing on Staten Island last night harked back to the old days of organized crime in New York. Here’s the story of the man who was gunned down: Frank Cali, reputed leader of the Gambino crime family.• Our tech columnist Kevin Roose takes a look at Senator Elizabeth Warren’s proposal to break up big tech companies. He says the plan is “a bold first stab at reform,” but offers some edits to make it more effective.• “I want to be in it. Man, I’m just born to be in it.” Vanity Fair gives Beto O’Rourke the profile treatment, complete with Reaganesque photo spread.____________________TMZ with some breaking 2020 news: Cory *hearts* Rosario. Also, this insta-classic by the Times photographer Doug Mills is not to be missed._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThankfully, monopoly power is shaping up as a central issue in the 2020 campaign.By Tim WuMr. Wu is a law professor who specializes in antitrust.Senator Elizabeth Warren’s announcement on Friday of a plan to break up major tech monopolies like Facebook and Google was critically important — not just as a policy proposal, but also as a sign of the return of antitrust to politics.In the United States, economic policy is ostensibly a matter of democratic governance, but for too long antitrust has been viewed as a technocratic matter best left to experts. This is a mistake: Excessive corporate size and power can be linked to many voter concerns, including stagnant wages, the invasion of privacy, the rise of fake news, the demise of the middle class and an unresponsive democracy.Antitrust is especially salient today because we witness the tremendous power of the tech monopolies firsthand, in our daily lives. Nearly everyone uses Facebook, Google, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft, and nearly everyone can see how smaller businesses have been hurt by their dominance. Nearly everyone has an opinion about whether they are too powerful, whether they know too much, whether they ought to be admired or feared.Add to these concerns the dangers of agricultural monopolies, rising costs for cable and broadband, and anticompetitive drug pricing, and it is clear that for Ms. Warren and other presidential hopefuls in the Democratic field, the problem of monopoly power should be a central issue — perhaps the central issue — in the 2020 campaign.Though every Democratic candidate is against President Trump and in favor of working Americans, antitrust is an issue over which the candidates have real disagreement. There are stark differences between, say, Senator Bernie Sanders’s calls to “break them up” (usually a reference to banks), and former Vice President Joe Biden’s “cooperative” approach. Mr. Biden (still undeclared), has taken the position that big corporations should not be “singled out” and that their chief executives can be persuaded to shoulder their responsibilities toward workers and communities. (In the late 1970s, Mr. Biden resisted efforts to strengthen the antitrust laws, though his views may have changed as the law has grown weaker.)Antitrust law is not an instrument of socialism or of unfettered capitalism; it seeks to protect markets from abuse by their participants. Ms. Warren and Senator Amy Klobuchar seem to have the deepest understanding of this. Ms. Klobuchar is not as aggressive on the issue as Ms. Warren, but she has cast herself as an antitrust reformer, introducing thoughtful new laws for merger reform. Senator Cory Booker, for his part, has over the last year staked out a trustbusting position centered on labor markets, with particular emphasis on the worrisome effects of corporate consolidation on workers and their salaries.The largest question mark among the major candidates is Senator Kamala Harris of California, who represents the state where the largest tech monopolies are headquartered. She was tough in her questioning of Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, during congressional hearings last year, but she has been silent on the questions raised by tech monopolies.Ms. Harris attracted some attention last month when she declined to register opposition to the proposed merger of the wireless carriers Sprint and T-Mobile — in stark contrast to the rest of the senators running for president. It may be that she is relatively open to approving mergers; it is also possible that her positions are just undeveloped.The variety of antitrust positions in the emerging Democratic field means that it will no longer be enough for a candidate to mutter a few platitudes about big corporations and let the party’s technocrats decide what the nation’s approach to monopoly power ought to be. Such questions of economic policy affect us all and therefore should sit at the core of a majoritarian democratic process.Indeed, they once did: Today’s interest in excessive corporate power recalls a time — 1912, to be exact — when antitrust policy was the central economic issue in the presidential race. Then, as now, the nation faced consolidated industries, widespread inequality and political radicalization. And then, as now, the public deserved the opportunity to decide what to do about that.Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, a contributing opinion writer and the author, most recently, of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Santora and Miroslava GermanovaIn a stunning rebuke of Slovakia’s populist governing party, Zuzana Caputova — a 45-year-old lawyer, activist and political newcomer — was elected Saturday as the nation’s first female president.Riding a wave of popular discontent over widespread corruption but refusing to engage in personal attacks on her opponents, she vowed to return a sense of decency to Slovakia’s often toxic political climate. Her sweeping victory in a runoff election gave hope to opposition parties across the region that the tide might be turning against the ethnic nationalist and populist movements that have swept to power in recent years.“Maybe we thought that justice and fairness in politics were signs of weakness,” she told a crowd of supporters around midnight. “Today, we see that they are actually our strengths. We thought that the barrier between conservative and liberal is unbreakable, but we managed to do it.”The country’s official statistics office said that with 100 percent of the vote counted, she led with 58 percent over 42 percent for Maros Sefcovic, a career diplomat who had the backing of the country’s governing party, SMER-SD.“I’m sending her a bouquet of flowers because I think the first Slovak female president deserves one,” Mr. Sefcovic said as he conceded defeat.Ms. Caputova had never run for office and said in a recent interview that she had not given the idea any serious consideration until last year.But said she could no longer sit on the sidelines after a young Slovak journalist, Jan Kuciak, and his fiancée, Martina Kusnirova, were shot and killed by a hit man hired to stop Mr. Kuciak’s investigations of corruption at the top levels of government.She joined the tens of thousands of Slovaks who took part in street demonstrations in the weeks after the killings, the largest protests since the Velvet Revolution three decades ago helped Czechoslovakia, now the Czech Republic and Slovakia, break free from Communist rule.For many who protested last year, the populism of the governing party — with its unrelenting attacks on migrants and the European Union — had become little more than cover for corruption.The organizers of the movement, however, deliberately excluded opposition politicians, wary of being tied to any political party.Ms. Caputova decided to join Progressive Slovakia, a new liberal party with no representation in Parliament, and champion a few simple ideas: civility in public life and transparency in government.Ms. Caputova said she would give up her party membership if elected, a clear signal to voters that she did not want to lead a new political machine.“I don’t remember a situation when skilled politicians have been confronted by anyone who would speak as openly, directly and normally as Zuzana Caputova,” wrote Matus Kostolny, editor in chief of the Slovak daily Dennik N. He called Ms. Caputova an “error in the system, a change that we haven’t seen for 30 years.”Ms. Caputova, a divorced mother of two teenage daughters, lives in Pezinok, a small town near Bratislava. Before her political rise, the town was known for two things: wine and the Pezinok landfill, a toxic dump.In 1999, Ms. Caputova joined the fight to hold those responsible for polluting the town to account. For the next 14 years, she waged a war that she eventually won.It was that battle that led some to call her the Erin Brockovich of Slovakia.She said the case had given her insight into how institutions work and how they can be abused. It also prepared her for the kind of personal attacks she would endure throughout the campaign. Above all, it showed that things can get better.“I am an optimist,” she said. “Someone who believes and hopes that change is possible.”In 2016, when she went to San Francisco to accept the Goldman Environmental Prize for her activism, she said the Pezinok case had been “a lesson in bravery.”“The case was an intense experience with the arrogance and vulgarity of political and economical power,” she said. “It was an experience with evil.”She used the same message in the presidential race.“Let’s fight evil together” was her campaign slogan. In an interview, she explained that “evil” referred not to individuals but to their actions.One of the campaign’s first commercials showed Ms. Caputova facing an intimidating man in a cafe.He asked: “So, do we have a deal?” To which Ms. Caputova answered a resolute “no.”She was then asked if she was afraid. Again, she replied no, adding that she was not alone.The commercial was given added power because the man bore an unmistakable resemblance to Marian Kocner, a businessman who is now charged with ordering the murder of Mr. Kuciak, as well as several financial crimes. He was also connected to the Pezinok landfill through his ties to a shell company responsible for the site.Ms. Caputova has managed to express outrage without rage, calmly calling for transparency, decency and fairness in politics and in public life.Her opponents — in both the general election and the runoff on Saturday — reached for issues that have worked well in the past to draw out their most ardent supporters. Migrants were called rapists. Gay men and lesbians were portrayed as a threat to traditional families.Vast conspiracies, often playing into anti-Semitic tropes, were thrown into the toxic stew of rhetoric in a country that has seen a marked rise in extremist groups in recent years.The final results were a victory for a different brand of politics. But the support enjoyed by Ms. Caputova’s most extreme challengers, including Marian Kotleba, an avowed proto-fascist, and Stefan Harabin, an anti-NATO Supreme Court judge — who together won more than 25 percent of the vote in the general election — was a reminder that the country remains deeply divided.For her part, Ms. Caputova never shied from her more controversial liberal views, including support for gay rights.Marian Lesko, a political analyst, said much work needed to be done to restore trust in public institutions but that he was hopeful.“I don’t remember the last time anyone with this kind of agenda has won,” he said.Marc Santora reported from Warsaw, and Miroslava Germanova from Bratislava.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian AustenOTTAWA — If Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had any thought that a burgeoning political scandal could be quietly contained, that hope vanished on Thursday, as Canadians dissected the explosive testimony from his former justice minister before a parliamentary committee.“I don’t think I’ve ever seen a minister strafe her own government like this,” said Andrew MacDougall, who was the spokesman for Stephen Harper, the Conservative prime minister Mr. Trudeau replaced in 2015. “It just reinforces people’s perception that all politicians are kind of bent.”During nearly four hours of testimony before the House of Commons justice committee on Wednesday evening, the former minister, Jody Wilson-Raybould, repeatedly contradicted and undermined Mr. Trudeau’s assertions that neither he nor his staff acted improperly in trying to settle a criminal case against SNC-Lavalin, a multinational construction and engineering company based in Montreal.[Latest update: Trudeau promised a fresh approach to politics. Now he’s embroiled in scandal.]Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s description of 10 meetings, 10 conversations and a series of emails about the criminal case from senior government officials dominated social media and news coverage in Canada on Thursday, as Andrew Scheer, the Conservative opposition leader in Parliament, asked the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to open a criminal investigation of the matter.Mr. Trudeau, who is running for re-election this fall, is already fending off a call for his resignation by Mr. Scheer as well as demands for an independent public inquiry.On Thursday night, the opposition parties led an emergency debate in the House of Commons, during which they condemned the actions of the prime minister and his circle. Liberal members reiterated Mr. Trudeau’s explanations and quoted Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s testimony that no one acted illegally or undermined the justice system.Parliament’s ethics commissioner is already looking at the accusations.[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]Mr. Trudeau has acknowledged that he and others spoke with Ms. Wilson-Raybould about cutting a deal in the case, in which SNC-Lavalin has been charged with paying millions of dollars in bribes to officials in Libya while the country was controlled by the dictator Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, but he has denied acting improperly.The deal would have seen the company pay a large penalty but not receive a criminal conviction, which would have barred it from government work for a decade — and possibly led to its leaving Canada or cutting thousands of jobs, particularly in Quebec.On Thursday, Mr. Trudeau rejected Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s assertion that government officials’ talks with her were improper “political interference” delivered with “veiled threats.”“Canadians expect their government to look for ways to protect jobs, to grow the economy, and that’s exactly what we’ve done every step of the way,” Mr. Trudeau told reporters in Montreal. “But we’ve also done it in a way that has respected our laws and respected the independence of the judiciary.”Mr. Trudeau predicted that the justice committee, which is controlled by his Liberal Party, and the ethics commissioner, whose role largely limits him to monitoring potential conflicts of interest, will vindicate him.But several analysts said Mr. Trudeau may find it difficult to avoid an independent inquiry.“While the government doesn’t want to subject itself to weeks of intense scrutiny, not opening it up looks very bad,” said Emmett Macfarlane, an associate professor of political science at the University of Waterloo in Ontario.“If this drags out,” he added, “how do they avoid a process that has the potential to conclude that this is something shady that happens behind the scenes all the time?”John Duffy, a former adviser in a previous Liberal government, pointed out that although Ms. Wilson-Raybould, who also served as attorney general, accused Mr. Trudeau and his aides of acting improperly, she acknowledged in her testimony that no one pressuring her about SNC-Lavalin broke any laws and specifically assured Canadians that the judicial system was not broken.“I’m not trying to make it out that this was a civics textbook example of how things should work out,” Mr. Duffy said, adding that in the end Ms. Wilson-Raybould did not give the company a break and the prosecution had continued.“But this is about governing style, the sausage making,” he said.That is not, however, an assessment shared by Mr. Trudeau’s opponents, who have cast the affair as a group made up mostly of men ganging up on a woman who was trying to uphold the principle of judicial dependence.Norman Spector, who was chief of staff to Brian Mulroney, a former Canadian prime minister, said most people now likely view the affair “as a pretty simplistic story about the Liberals helping their friend in Quebec.”“They will have suspicions that the system is rigged,” added Mr. Spector, who recently was an adviser to the Green Party of British Columbia.While Mr. Spector believes that Mr. Trudeau will vigorously resist calls for an inquiry, he noted that the prime minister has already backed off from several positions in the controversy.Most notably, the Liberal majority on the justice committee kept Ms. Wilson-Raybould off its initial witness list for its hearings before adding her.On Thursday, Gerald Butts, a close friend of Mr. Trudeau’s who stepped down as his top political adviser last week because of the controversy, asked the justice committee to call him as a witness.Last month, Ms. Wilson-Raybould was moved from Canada’s Justice Department to Veterans Affairs, a step now widely linked to her resistance on the SNC-Lavalin case. This month she quit the cabinet entirely, although she declined to offer a specific reason for that decision.Mr. Trudeau said on Thursday that he was reviewing her status as a member of the Liberal caucus in Parliament, where Ms. Wilson-Raybould represents a constituency in Vancouver, British Columbia.While some Liberals have said privately that several caucus members want her removed, that action has the potential to make her a political martyr.“If I was advising the prime minister, I would be very hesitant to recommend that he take that action,” Professor Macfarlane said.Follow Ian Austen on Twitter: @ianrausten.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian JohnsonBEIJING — Li Rui, who over nearly four decades went from being one of Mao Zedong’s personal secretaries in the 1950s to a Communist Party critic, revisionist historian and standard-bearer for liberal values in China, died in Beijing on Saturday. He was 101.The cause of death was organ failure, brought on by a lung inflammation and cancer of the digestive tract, according to his daughter, Li Nanyang, who spoke with doctors at the Beijing hospital where Mr. Li had been receiving treatment.Blunt, brash and quick-witted, Mr. Li’s experience epitomized the hopes and disappointments of a generation. His perseverance and longevity made him one of the most influential government critics in the seven-decade history of the People’s Republic of China. His work also helped reshape historians’ understanding of key moments in modern Chinese history — especially Mao’s responsibility for the catastrophic Great Leap Forward, in which famine killed more than 35 million people — while his political connections allowed him to protect moderate critics and make open appeals for free speech and constitutional government.But Mr. Li was no dissident. He died a Communist Party member, enjoying the privileges that came from having joined the party in 1937, earlier than almost anyone else alive in China. He had a large apartment, a generous pension and lavish benefits, such as top-flight medical care. The party imprisoned him, exiled him, and almost starved him to death, but even when it expelled him he eventually returned in hopes of effecting change from within.“He saw himself as a conscience of the revolution and the party,” said Roderick MacFarquhar, a professor of Chinese history at Harvard University. “But he had grave doubts about the system he spent his life serving.” (Mr. MacFarquhar died on Sunday.)Early on, Mr. Li was an enthusiastic party member. He was born in 1917 to a prosperous family in the southern Chinese province of Hunan at a time when the country was being carved up by warlords and foreign aggressors. His father was a member of the Tongmenghui, an underground revolutionary party that helped overthrow the Qing dynasty and establish a republic. He died in 1922, leaving Li Rui fatherless but eager to follow in his footsteps of political activism.While Mr. Li was a mechanical engineering student at Wuhan University, he participated in a Communist-led student movement to pressure the government to resist Japan’s recent annexation of Chinese territory. In 1937 he joined the Communist Party as an underground activist.This put Mr. Li in the vanguard of a new generation of idealistic, educated members in the Communist Party, which had been dominated by street fighters and veteran revolutionaries like Mao. Photos of him from this time show a strikingly vigorous young man with the body of an athlete and a square, jaunty face framing two piercing eyes.After the People’s Republic was founded in 1949, Mr. Li worked in the strategically important Ministry of Water Resources. In 1958 he became its deputy head, making him the youngest vice minister in China.That same year he reached the pinnacle of his career. Mao was holding a meeting in the southern city of Nanning. One item on the agenda was building the Three Gorges Dam, a massive flood-control and hydropower project on the Yangtze River that would create a vast inland lake and destroy villages and cultural relics for scores of miles upstream.Mr. Li was a known opponent, and Mao had him flown down from Beijing to debate the issue in his presence. He won Mao over by talking forcefully and simply, and was soon appointed as one of his personal secretaries — making him a powerful gatekeeper to a leader who ruled like an emperor.But Mr. Li’s stint at the top was short-lived. In 1958, Mao embarked on the Great Leap Forward, an ill-conceived dream to leapfrog Western countries through a series of rash economic policies. Soon, farmers began starving to death.Moderates in the party rallied around one of China’s most famous generals, Peng Dehuai, who tried to slow Mao’s policies and limit the famine. Meeting in 1959 at the Lushan resort in central China, Mao outmaneuvered them — a turning point in modern Chinese history that transformed the famine into the worst in recorded history and helped create a personality cult around Mao.At a critical point during the Lushan meeting, one of Mao’s personal secretaries was accused of having said that Mao could accept no criticism. The room went silent. Mr. Li was asked if he had heard the man make such a bold criticism. In an oral history of the period, Mr. Li recalled:“I stood up and answered: ‘[He] heard wrong. Those were my views.’ ”Mr. Li was quickly purged. He was identified, along with General Peng, as an anti-Mao co-conspirator. He was stripped of his party membership and sent to a penal colony near the Soviet border.With China besieged by famine, Mr. Li almost starved to death. He was saved when friends managed to get him transferred to another labor camp that had access to food.He was soon visited by government inspectors, who said he could have his party membership back if he would admit his errors. But Mr. Li was disgusted at what he had seen at the top.“I declined because of the Lushan meeting, which involved the highest-ranking members of the party,” he recalled. “To my surprise, not one of them had had the guts to say something fair and just about General Peng. I felt despondent and hopeless. I said I agreed with being expelled from the party.”In late 1961, Mr. Li returned to Beijing. His daughter Li Nanyang said in an interview that he had dared to speak out despite the totalitarian atmosphere in the Chinese capital. She recalls writing an essay praising the Communist Party for preventing deaths during the Great Leap Forward. Her father upbraided her:“He said: ‘How do you know nobody died?’“I stared at him and said, ‘How dare you say that? The newspapers and my teachers said nobody died, so how could you say that?’”Angry at his stubbornness, his wife of 22 years divorced him, taking their three children. She then denounced him for having made private comments against Mao. In 1962 he was banished to teach in a remote mountain region.Four years later, Mao launched the Cultural Revolution, which was aimed at overthrowing moderates in the party. Just as at the Lushan meeting, Mao’s own personal secretaries were under investigation for being inadequately radical.Investigators flew to Mr. Li’s mountain exile. He vouched for all of the secretaries except one, Chen Boda, who was well-known as the most leftist among Mao’s secretaries. It was a nearly suicidal act of defiance against the radical faction around Mao.A few months later, Mr. Li was sent to China’s Bastille, the notorious Qincheng prison north of Beijing, where he was held in solitary confinement for most of the next nine years. He fought the loneliness by using iodine from the prison clinic to write 400 poems in the margins of the collected works of Marx and Lenin.“This helped ease my pain and worry,” he wrote in an essay on his 99th birthday. “And helped me keep my sanity.”In 1975, he was released from Qincheng but sent back to his mountain exile. It was only after Mao died and Deng Xiaoping took power at the end of 1978 that Mr. Li was given back party membership. He returned to Beijing to rejoin the Ministry of Water Resources. He again opposed plans to build the Three Gorges Dam, teaming up with the journalist and environmental activist Dai Qing to prevent the gargantuan project.He later was transferred to the party’s influential Organization Department, where he helped oversee the recruitment of new officials. But his career ended abruptly in 1984 when he refused to give special preference to the offspring of senior officials.“Between choosing telling the truth or a promising career future, he always chose the truth,” Ms. Dai said in an interview. “He has been true all his life.”That began the most influential stage of his life: elder statesman with a conscience.He lost the battle over the Three Gorges Dam, which hard-liners pushed through in the wake of the 1989 Tiananmen massacre and the defeat of reformers in the Communist Party.But he wrote a highly influential book about the Lushan meeting, “The Veritable Records of the Lushan Conference,” which countered the party’s story that the famine was not Mao’s responsibility. He also wrote essays, articles and open letters to senior leaders calling for more transparency and tolerance.Perhaps most importantly, he became the patron saint of “Yanhuang Chunqiu,” or “China Through the Ages,” an edgy journal that took on sensitive historic issues, such as the Great Leap Famine or the Cultural Revolution, that the Communist Party wanted forgotten.“He was idealistic,” said Wu Si, its editor until 2016. “He didn’t work for political gain.”But Mr. Li’s vision of a more open and democratic China faded. By 2016, Mr. Wu was fired as head of the magazine and it was taken over by hard-liners.“I’m afraid there was nothing that Li Rui could do,” Mr. Wu said. “It was beyond the ability of one person to protect.”Mr. Li refused to back down, however, writing critically about President Xi Jinping, China’s most authoritarian leader since Mao. In an essay, he contrasted Mr. Xi with his late father, Xi Zhongxun, who had been known for his tolerance and opposition to strongman rule.Mr. Li wrote that around 2006 he went to Zhejiang Province, where Mr. Xi was then serving as party secretary. Mr. Xi took him out to dinner and Mr. Li urged him to speak out against abuses in the system. According to Mr. Li, China’s future leader rebuffed him:“How can I emulate you? You can hover on the fringes” — the implication being that the ambitious Mr. Xi wanted to be at the center of power.Mr. Li added a damning comment to the story: “In the West there is a saying that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely.”For the Chinese historian Zhang Lifan, Mr. Li epitomized the tragedy of a generation. Many initially saw the Communist Party as China’s salvation, watched as it turned into a dictatorial force under Mao’s nearly 30 years at the top, and then yearned that the reform era would finally bring changes — only to see these hopes dashed by the party’s inability to renounce authoritarianism.“The ‘China Through the Ages’ incident was a sign that Li Rui and his peers’ dream would never come true,” Mr. Zhang said. “But I understand Li Rui: To deny the party would have meant denying his own life.”Karoline Kan contributed research.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen CastleLONDON — A bitter internal struggle within Britain’s opposition Labour Party burst into open warfare on Monday, when seven lawmakers resigned, castigating their left-wing leader, Jeremy Corbyn, and calling for a movement to champion a brand of new, more centrist, politics.The development raises the intriguing — if still distant — possibility of a realignment of British politics, coming at a moment of significant flux, with both main political parties divided while also appearing to flee the political center ground.On Monday the rebel Labour lawmakers accused Mr. Corbyn of equivocating over Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union and tolerating anti-Semitism, with some of them professing embarrassment or shame about the state of the party they had spent years serving.The resignations sent shock waves through the party whose deputy leader, Tom Watson, warned that Labour needed to change direction to avoid a deeper split and further defections.“I confess I feared this day would come and I fear now that unless we change we may see more days like this,” he said in a statement.Labour and the governing Conservatives both appear to be buckling as they grapple with the ramifications of Britain’s imminent departure from the European Union, or Brexit. That process is reaching some sort of denouement with Britain less than 40 days away from leaving the bloc and still without any exit agreement, something that could precipitate a disorderly, possibly chaotic, rupture.Amid the strains of Brexit, growing inequality and years of budget cuts under the government’s austerity program, the two major parties have become increasingly polarized.“Both of the main parties are pulling away from the center ground, where traditionally British elections are won,” said Tony Travers, a professor of government at the London School of Economics. “Many members of Parliament in both parties think that the current situation can’t go on, they don’t think it can remain stable.”“The question,” he added, “is whether there is a potential correcting mechanism with British politics that means that the broad mass of moderate voters can find a way of voting for moderate members of Parliament, to bring politics back from the extreme left and the Brexit hard right.”That will not be easy. The seven rebel lawmakers will sit as independents in Parliament, having decided not to establish a new political party, at least for now. Doing so is difficult in Britain because the country’s electoral system makes it hard for smaller groups to win representation in Parliament. A faction that splintered from Labour in the 1980s to form a centrist social democratic party ultimately failed.Nevertheless, in some parts of Europe, new political forces have exploited the weakness of existing parties, including in France where President Emmanuel Macron successfully created a new centrist movement.In Britain, Mr. Travers noted, there is “a gaping gap” in politics. Under Mr. Corbyn, Labour has both its most left-wing leader in decades and a lifelong critic of the European Union, who has resisted demands from some of his lawmakers and party members to support another referendum on Brexit.The Conservatives have their schisms as well. Within the governing Conservative Party of Prime Minister Theresa May, Brexit has been embraced with enthusiasm by party activists, who tend to be older and more nativist. This has strengthened the hand of hard-liners, including lawmakers who meet as the European Research Group, some of whom are happy to contemplate leaving the European Union without any agreement.That has left the party’s more pragmatic lawmakers on the defensive, confronting the prospect of something they fear could be an economic catastrophe. Several of the more pro-European Conservative lawmakers have been threatened with deselection by their local parties, a development that mirrors the faction-fighting within Labour.While there is a vacant space at the center of Britain’s politics, the middle-of-the-road Liberal Democrats have failed to recover the credibility they lost with voters during their coalition government with the Conservatives from 2010 to 2015.On Monday, the seven lawmakers gave differing reasons for their resignations when they addressed the media. Luciana Berger, who represents Liverpool Wavertree, has been a vocal critic of Mr. Corbyn’s handling of anti-Semitism allegations, and was threatened with a vote of no-confidence by local party activists, a motion that was eventually withdrawn.Last year Ms. Berger protested when it emerged that, in 2012, Mr. Corbyn had endorsed a mural on a wall in east London that appeared to depict a group of caricatured Jewish bankers playing Monopoly on the backs of the poor. Since that episode, for which he apologized, Mr. Corbyn, who is a vehement and unapologetic critic of the current Israeli government, has failed to shake off claims that he has tolerated anti-Semitism within Labour’s ranks.“I cannot remain in a party that I have come to the sickening conclusion is institutionally anti-Semitic,” said Ms. Berger, who is Jewish.Chris Leslie, a former minister, said that the Labour Party had been “hijacked by the machine politics of the hard left” and criticized “Labour’s betrayal on Europe.” Pro-Europeans are furious that Mr. Corbyn has not pushed for a second referendum, despite a motion from last year’s Labour Party conference calling for such a move, if there was no sign of a general election.And Chuka Umunna, once considered a possible future leader of the Labour Party, appealed to voters to help forge a new movement. “We have taken the step in leaving the old politics behind and invite others to do the same,” he said.Responding to the announcement, Mr. Corbyn sought to contain, rather than inflame, the split, avoiding harsh rhetoric and expressing his disappointment. “The Conservative government is bungling Brexit,” he said, “while Labour has set out a unifying and credible alternative plan.”Though Mr. Corbyn may not be sad, personally, to see the back of some internal critics, he knows that a cleavage in the party could prevent him from ever becoming prime minister. In 2017 his campaign in a general election proved more successful than many expected, depriving Mrs. May of a majority in Parliament and silencing many internal critics, including lawmakers who had sought his ouster.Some of Mr. Corbyn’s supporters called on the seven lawmakers to resign their seats in Parliament and fight them again as independents in by-elections.That underscores one of the problems confronting the seven rebels who, without the official endorsement of the Labour Party, will find it hard to hold their seats in Parliament at the next general election.That gives them only a limited time to plot a future. Mr. Travers said that their decision to form an independent grouping in Parliament rather than a party, meant they were in a “holding pattern.”Their prospects could improve if the growing influence of pro-Brexit hard-liners pushes more moderate Conservative lawmakers out of their party, leaving them politically homeless.And, if opinion polling were to suggest that there could be significant support for a new party, that could encourage more of Mr. Corbyn’s critics within the Labour Party to quit.But the lessons of recent political history are not encouraging. In 1981, a group of senior figures in the Labour Party resigned to form the Social Democratic Party, promising to break the mold of British politics. Despite some initial success that saw the SDP at one point winning a quarter of the vote, it later failed.The most recent new political party to make an impact was the pro-Brexit U.K. Independent Party. But it managed to get its foothold in the political discourse by winning seats in the European Parliament where a system of proportional representation is in place, helping smaller parties. Assuming Britain leaves the European Union on March 29, as planned, that option would not be open to any new centrist party.Dick Newby, leader of the Liberal Democrats in the House of Lords and a member of the ill-fated SDP, wrote on Twitter than the seven lawmakers were “a very brave group.””“Anyone who left Labour for the SDP knows how difficult such a decision is,” he added.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBoth critics and defenders of the Green New Deal have a point.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.The Green New Deal is not a good piece of policy. But I’m glad it exists.I’m glad it exists because climate change and the stagnation of mass living standards are both defining challenges for this country. And the authors of the Green New Deal — Senator Ed Markey and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez — have the admirable ambition to take on both.The plan doesn’t ask what is politically possible today. It asks what needs to be done and tries to change the definition of politically possible. “Climate change is an unprecedented emergency that requires unprecedented action,” Michael Grunwald writes in Politico, “so America needs to try to do seemingly impossible things.”[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]The Green New Deal rightly rejects the choice between helping American workers and taking on climate change. The country needs to do both, and it can. By focusing on the terrifying state of the climate, the plan will likely nudge other Democrats toward their own ambitious climate proposals. So why isn’t it a good policy?Too little, too muchThe overview released by Markey and Ocasio-Cortez has two main flaws:Although the plan does a good job laying out the problem of climate change, it doesn’t offer a clear vision for a solution. It asserts that it will solve the problem and skips huge questions — like the roles of a carbon tax, nuclear energy and urban density. The proposal doesn’t need to get into details at this point, but it should at least move people closer to understanding what a solution will look like.The plan doesn’t merely argue that clean energy can create good-paying jobs (which it can). It includes a needlessly long wish list of progressive economic policies, including “economic security for all people” and the counteracting of “systemic injustices.”“The operating principle behind the Green New Deal is a no-enemies-to-the-left spirit of fostering unity among every faction of the progressive movement,” Jonathan Chait writes in New York magazine. “Thus, at the same time, the plan avoids taking stances that are absolutely vital to reduce carbon emissions, it embraces policies that have nothing to do with climate change whatsoever.”If this were a proposal from a leading presidential candidate or a party leader, it would be worrisome. But it’s not. It’s more akin to a gadfly. For all its flaws, the Green New Deal is a useful call to action. The question now is who can put together a better plan.Why it matters“Ella Kissi-Debrah was 9 when she died in 2013, after three years of asthma attacks so bad, they sometimes triggered seizures. In photos, her smile is broad and bright, her hair braided. She loved music and swimming, and dreamed of becoming a pilot,” writes Beth Gardiner, the author of a forthcoming book on air pollution, in an Op-Ed today. “Ella lived with her family just off London’s South Circular Road, a major thoroughfare that is clouded by the diesel fumes that make London’s air — like much of Europe’s — thick and foul-smelling. A scientist’s analysis found that many of her hospitalizations coincided with local pollution spikes.”If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Julie BosmanBefore the last mayoral election four years ago, Toni Preckwinkle was frequently mentioned as one of the few formidable politicians in Chicago who could successfully challenge Mayor Rahm Emanuel as he competed for a second term. She disappointed her supporters by declining to run.This time around, Ms. Preckwinkle, 71, is not sitting another election out. She entered the runoff for mayor as a candidate of contrasts: both an entrenched political insider and a groundbreaker who would be the first African-American woman to lead Chicago.Quiet and forceful, Ms. Preckwinkle has worked within the confines of party politics but has still managed to strike out as a leading progressive on issues such as criminal justice reform and affordable housing.[Two African-American women are headed for the runoff. Read more here about how that sets up an election that will make history.]She has also been marred by scandal in recent months, damaged by her relationship with Ed Burke, an alderman who was charged last month with a federal crime, and her handling of sexual harassment allegations directed at her (now-fired) chief of staff.Ms. Preckwinkle’s deep history in county politics — she has been president of the Cook County Board of Commissioners for eight years — has opened her up to attacks from other candidates that she is the establishment and too quick to compromise. She says she is “uniquely qualified” to be the mayor of Chicago.“Your job always, if you’re in office, is to try to move your agenda forward and get things done,” Ms. Preckwinkle told the Chicago Tribune. “You know, I’m not into being Don Quixote.”[Ms. Preckwinkle will face Lori Lightfoot, a former federal prosecutor, in the election. Read more here about Ms. Lightfoot.]Ms. Preckwinkle grew up in St. Paul, Minn., took an interest in politics as a teenager and attended college at the University of Chicago in Hyde Park, the liberal neighborhood on the South Side that would become her political base.After teaching in both public and private schools, Ms. Preckwinkle was eventually elected alderman of the Fourth Ward.She has worked to reduce the jail population in Cook County and supported the decriminalization of possession of small amounts of marijuana. As president of the Cook County Board, she pushed through a penny-an-ounce soda tax, which prompted a fierce backlash from critics who said it would hurt the poor. The so-called pop tax was repealed, a political embarrassment for Ms. Preckwinkle.After declaring a run for mayor, Ms. Preckwinkle has garnered powerful union support with endorsements by the Chicago Teachers Union and the Service Employees International Union.She has said that as mayor she would favor overhauling the juvenile justice system, addressing racial bias in policing, and strengthening laws restricting guns. She has also called for a halt to school closings and a focus on environmental health, prompted by the disclosure that thousands of Chicago homes have dangerous levels of lead in their water.In her television ads, Ms. Preckwinkle has fought back against the perception that she is part of the fabled Chicago “machine” because of her long history in city government, trying to turn the image in her favor.“She’s not from the machine, but she’s a boss,” the ad said. “Toni is ready to take on the old boys club from day one.”An earlier version of this article misstated the political body Toni Preckwinkle has led for eight years. She has headed the Cook County Board of Commissioners for that time, not the Cook County Democratic Party.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesIt was the liquor talking, apparently.Two officials from an anti-immigrant political party in Australia said on Tuesday that an undercover recording of them explaining the political influence that money from the American gun lobby could potentially buy was not what it seemed.Their comments, they said, were just small talk made over rounds of scotch.In the recording, James Ashby, the chief of staff for Pauline Hanson, leader of the One Nation party, is heard to say that his right-wing party could “own” the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the American gun lobby.The recording — by a reporter for Al Jazeera — was made in the United States during a trip last year, just weeks before an Australian law banning foreign political donations took effect.The recording was revealed on Monday in the first part of a two-part Al Jazeera documentary, “How to Sell a Massacre,” for which the Australian reporter Rodger Muller posed for years as a gun-rights advocate.Through the guise of a fake organization called Gun Rights Australia, Mr. Muller introduced Mr. Ashby and Steve Dickson, the One Nation party’s Queensland leader, to representatives from the National Rifle Association and Koch Industries during a trip to the United States in September.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Twitter that reports of One Nation officials soliciting donations from the American gun lobby “to influence our elections & undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning.”Mr. Morrison, the leader of Australia’s Liberal Party, also accused One Nation of trying to “sell Australia’s gun laws to the highest bidders,” and said the revelations were another reason Australians should not vote for the One Nation party in general elections expected in May.Bill Shorten, the leader of the opposition Labor Party, accused One Nation of a “betrayal of the Australian political system.”“The idea of One Nation political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying,” Mr. Shorten said.But Mr. Ashby told reporters on Tuesday that the meetings with the N.R.A. had been about sourcing technology and gaining “an understanding of how they operate.” He said they were never about requesting $20 million, and that he and Mr. Dickson had traveled to the United States on a fact-finding mission.“The conversations that have been recorded where there is talk of $10 and $20 million dollars — I’ll be the first to admit, we’d arrived in America, we’d got on the sauce, we’d had a few drinks,” Mr. Ashby said.“And that’s where those discussions took place,” he continued. “Not with any potential donors. No one but Rodger Muller, Steve Dickson and myself.”Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Mr. Dickson said that Mr. Muller, the journalist, had “seemed to be a very reasonable guy” — an impression he said was bolstered by Mr. Muller’s Akubra bush hat, akin to an American cowboy hat. He said the conversation was merely a product of “having scotches for three or four hours.”“I never, ever, suspected in my wildest dreams that that guy was employed by a Middle Eastern country, by Al Jazeera, as an Australian spy to interfere in Australian politics,” Mr. Dickson said.Al Jazeera, a satellite network based in Qatar and owned by that country’s government, said in a report on Tuesday that the documentary “provides a rare inside view of how the N.R.A. deliberates over mass shootings and seeks to manipulate media coverage to push its pro-gun agenda.”In an email, Jennifer Baker, the director of public affairs for the N.R.A., called Al Jazeera a “state-owned anti-gun” network and said, “At no time did the N.R.A. contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia.”The Australian government introduced some of the world’s toughest gun laws in 1996, after a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people in the town of Port Arthur.The rate of intentional gun deaths in Australia had fallen about 33 percent from 1986 to 1996, the year of the Port Arthur massacre. But the decline accelerated after the new gun control measures were enacted, with the rate dropping about 60 percent from 1996 to 2006. President Barack Obama later cited the laws as a potential model for the United States.One Nation’s website says that the focus of its firearms policy is to “move away from trying to criminalize firearms ownership to punishing criminals for the use of firearms to commit crimes.” Among other measures, the party’s platform calls for reducing waiting periods for handgun purchases.In response to the new documentary, One Nation said in a statement that its members always complied with the law. It also called Al Jazeera “a state owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization.”In 2017, Ms. Hanson, the party’s leader, sparked controversy by walking into the Australian Senate wearing a burqa as a way of drawing attention to her party’s push to ban full-face coverings in public. The move drew strong criticism from other senators.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byletterA reader urges political parties to focus on shared human problems.To the Editor:I was disturbed to read about the Democrats’ internal deliberations regarding whether to focus on Midwestern, primarily white, Americans or on more diverse populations, including immigrants and people of color (“Different Paths for Democrats to Win in 2020,” front page, Feb. 26).I am a liberal Democrat, but it is obvious to me that as long as political parties choose whose issues they will attend to and whose suffering they will address, political division will only persist and worsen. Human problems, like health care, education costs and paying our bills, are universal, and political parties need to figure out how to hear and attend to everyone’s concerns. It really shouldn’t be that difficult.Elaine EdelmanEast Brunswick, N.J.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court returned to the subject of partisan gerrymandering on Tuesday, appearing largely divided along ideological lines as it considered for a second time in two years whether drawing election maps to help the party in power ever violates the Constitution.Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, the court’s newest member and the one who may possess the decisive vote, expressed uneasiness about the practice.“Extreme partisan gerrymandering is a real problem for our democracy,” he said. “I’m not going to dispute that.”He added, though, that recent developments around the nation — including state ballot initiatives establishing independent redistricting commissions, proposed legislation in Congress and State Supreme Court rulings — may make action from the United States Supreme Court less necessary.“Have we really reached the moment, even though it would be a big lift for this court to get involved, where the other actors can’t do it?” he asked.Much could hang on Justice Kavanaugh’s opinion: A ruling that limited partisan gerrymandering could transform American politics, reshaping House maps in several states, often but not always to the benefit of Democrats.Justice Kavanaugh was an exceptionally active participant in Tuesday’s arguments, asking probing questions of both sides and displaying particularly detailed familiarity with the geography and voting districts of Maryland, his home state. But his record as an appeals court judge provides few hints about how he will approach the issue.The other justices seemed largely split along the usual lines, with the more conservative ones wary of announcing constitutional limits on partisan gerrymandering and the more liberal ones prepared to try.There was certainly no consensus on how to fashion a legal standard that would separate acceptable partisanship from the kind that is unconstitutional. Justice Stephen G. Breyer proposed a numerical test, but it did not seem to gain traction with his colleagues.Justice Neil M. Gorsuch, on hearing one lawyer’s proposed standard, said it amounted to “I know it when I see it.”Last year’s cases, from Wisconsin and Maryland, raised the possibility that the court might decide, for the first time, that some election maps were so warped by politics that they crossed a constitutional line. Challengers had pinned their hopes on Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who had expressed ambivalence on the subject, but he and his colleagues appeared unable to identify a workable constitutional test. The justices instead sidestepped the central questions in the two cases.When Justice Kavanaugh replaced Justice Kennedy, many election lawyers said the prospects of a decision limiting partisan gerrymandering dropped sharply. Justice Kavanaugh’s questioning on Tuesday complicated that assessment.On Tuesday, several justices repeated a question Justice Kennedy had asked in earlier cases: Would it be permissible for state lawmakers to make giving their own party an advantage an express legal requirement in drawing voting maps? Justice Kennedy had written that the answer had to be no.Paul D. Clement, a lawyer for North Carolina lawmakers who had insisted on just such a requirement, said it was proper and in some ways desirable. “The answer — sort of obviously given who I’m representing — is, ‘Absolutely, yes, that’s not a problem, and, by the way, I think actually being candid about it probably serves accountability principles in the long run.’”The North Carolina case, Rucho v. Common Cause, No. 18-422, was an appeal from a decision in August by a three-judge panel of a Federal District Court in North Carolina. The ruling found that Republican legislators there had violated the Constitution by drawing the districts to hurt the electoral chances of Democratic candidates.The judges noted that the legislator responsible for drawing the map had not disguised his intentions. “I think electing Republicans is better than electing Democrats,” said the legislator, Representative David Lewis, a Republican. “So I drew this map to help foster what I think is better for the country.”The plan worked. In 2016, the court said, Republican congressional candidates won 53 percent of the statewide vote. But they won in 10 of the 13 congressional districts, or 77 percent of them.In 2018, the statewide vote was about evenly divided, but Democrats again secured only three seats. (After evidence of election fraud and the death last month of a longtime incumbent, two seats are open.)Like Justice Kavanaugh, Justice Gorsuch cited recent ballot initiatives creating nonpartisan redistricting commissions as a reason for the Supreme Court to hold its fire.A lawyer for one set of challengers in the North Carolina case, Emmet J. Bondurant II, said such initiatives were not a complete answer. “The vast majority of states east of the Mississippi, including specifically North Carolina,” he said, “do not have citizen initiatives.”Nor is it clear that independent redistricting commissions will remain available. In 2015, the Supreme Court upheld Arizona’s commission, which was challenged by the state’s Legislature. The vote was 5 to 4, with Justice Kennedy joining the court’s four more liberal members to form a majority.Mr. Clement, the North Carolina lawmakers’ lawyer, had represented the Arizona Legislature and did not seem reconciled to his loss in the case. He said the framers of the Constitution had contemplated having election maps drawn by state legislatures, not commissions.The Maryland case, Lamone v. Benisek, No. 18-726, was brought by Republican voters who said Democratic state lawmakers had in 2011 redrawn a district to retaliate against citizens who supported its longtime incumbent, Representative Roscoe G. Bartlett, a Republican. That retaliation, the plaintiffs said, violated the First Amendment by diluting their voting power.Mr. Bartlett had won his 2010 race by a margin of 28 percentage points. In 2012, he lost to Representative John Delaney, a Democrat, by a 21-point margin.Last year, after the Supreme Court returned the case to the United States District Court in Maryland, a three-judge panel of that court ruled for the challengers, barred state officials from conducting further congressional elections using the 2011 maps and ordered them to draw new ones.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said the First Amendment may have a role to play if states draw districts to harm voters based on their political viewpoints.“It does seem that this is a situation where the state is taking retaliatory action against Republicans who were in that district and had a more effective vote,” he said, “and penalizing them for exercising their right to vote by moving them out to a different district.”Steven M. Sullivan, Maryland’s solicitor general, said the challenged district had been drawn for reasons unrelated to politics. Justice Kavanaugh seemed unpersuaded.“I don’t think you should run away from the obvious,” Justice Kavanaugh told Mr. Sullivan.In the North Carolina case, Mr. Clement warned the court about the perils it faced in taking on partisan gerrymandering.“Once you get into the political thicket,” he said, “you will not get out and you will tarnish the image of this court for the other cases where it needs that reputation for independence so people can understand the fundamental difference between judging and all other politics.”Allison J. Riggs, a lawyer for a second set of challengers in the North Carolina case, said the real danger was in not acting: “The reputational risk of doing something is much, much less than the reputational risk of doing nothing, which will be read as a green light for this kind of discriminatory rhetoric and manipulation in redistricting from here on out.”Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian AustenOTTAWA — Canada’s top public servant, who was accused of improperly pressing the former attorney general to settle a corruption case involving a major corporation, resigned on Monday as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tried to put more than a month of political turmoil behind him.It was the fourth prominent resignation related to the scandal since last month.In parliamentary testimony, Jody Wilson-Raybould, who stepped down as justice minister and attorney general, had singled out Michael Wernick, the public servant, for making what she called “veiled threats” to steer her toward using a new law to impose a hefty financial penalty, rather than a criminal conviction, on SNC-Lavalin, a Montreal company accused of bribery in Libya.A criminal conviction would have barred the company from government work for a decade, which led Mr. Trudeau and others to fear the loss of Canadian jobs.Mr. Wernick, a career public servant whose role as clerk of the Privy Council is supposed to be impartial and nonpartisan, denied acting improperly or making threats in his own testimony in front of Parliament. Public appearances by the clerk are rare, and past clerks have generally been guarded and careful in their comments, as it is their job to ensure that government workers carry out the laws passed by politicians.But Mr. Wernick’s two appearances to discuss SNC-Lavalin before a parliamentary committee were anything but that.In the first round, Mr. Wernick lectured committee members about what he sees as overheated political rhetoric in the country.“I worry about the rising tide of incitements to violence when people use terms like ‘treason’ and ‘traitor’ in open discourse,” he said, referring to terms used on social media by some critics of Mr. Trudeau’s actions in the SNC-Lavalin affair. “Those are words that lead to assassination. I’m worried that somebody is going to be shot in this country this year during the political campaign.”[Read more about how Justin Trudeau was ensnared by the SNC-Lavalin scandal]Opposition politicians said afterward that Mr. Wernick’s actions involving Ms. Wilson-Raybould and his comments about the political state of the nation were improper for a public servant in any position. One member of the New Democratic Party, Charlie Angus, asked Mr. Trudeau in a letter to demand Mr. Wernick resign.It had been expected that Mr. Wernick, who has been in the public service for 38 years, would retire soon after the federal election in October. But in his resignation letter to Mr. Trudeau on Monday, he said that “recent events have led me to conclude that I cannot serve as clerk of the Privy Council and secretary to cabinet during the upcoming election campaign,” and “it is now apparent that there is no path for me to have a relationship of mutual trust and respect with the leaders of the opposition parties.”The clerk is a key figure in the transition if the government changes hands during an election. Mr. Wernick was also recently appointed to a group tasked with looking for signs of foreign interference in the coming campaign.It was not clear when Mr. Wernick’s retirement will take effect, but the chief public servant in the department of international affairs was named as his replacement.In addition to Mr. Wernick and Ms. Wilson-Raybould, Gerald Butts, Mr. Trudeau’s close friend, stepped down as the prime minister’s top political aide. Jane Philpott, another cabinet minister, resigned in solidarity with Ms. Wilson-Raybould, although the two former ministers are still sitting as Liberals in Parliament.Early on Monday, Mr. Trudeau named Joyce Murray, a longtime Liberal member of Parliament from British Columbia, to replace Ms. Philpott as president of the Treasury Board.Both Mr. Butts and Mr. Trudeau have insisted that their requests, and those of others, that Ms. Wilson-Raybould look into the possibility of a settlement were neither excessive nor improper. In the end, she did not order prosecutors to seek a settlement, and the company is still going to court.The justice part of Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s old job was clearly political. But her decisions as attorney general were supposed to be made without political considerations in mind.Some countries, notably Britain, separate the two roles for that reason.Before Mr. Wernick quit on Monday, Mr. Trudeau announced that Anne McLellan, who served as justice minister and attorney general in another Liberal government from 1997 to 2002, would review the dual post and make recommendations by the end of June.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byDoes the Democratic Party still have centrists? Does it need them?By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistSince at least the middle of the Obama era, all the energy and activity and creativity in the Democratic coalition has been with people pushing the party away from any kind of centrism — with the journals and zines that have resuscitated something they call socialism, with the activists trying to impose the college-campus style of cultural liberalism on the wider country (or at least the wider internet), with the feminists and intersectional types and Bernie Bros who clash and feud and sometimes absolutely hate one another, but still share a common “to the left, march” purpose.Now that energy has transformed Democratic politics. We have a swelling Democratic 2020 field in which a capital-S Socialist is arguably the front-runner, most of the declared candidates are offering maximal ideological ambition, and the last Democratic vice president is hesitating to run in part because of all his long-gone compromises with conservatism.With Clintonism as toxic as Bill Clinton’s post-#MeToo reputation, even the old Clintonites are throwing in the towel. In a memorable Twitter thread, the center-left economist Brad DeLong argued that the time has come for centrists to become, in effect, junior partners in the Democratic coalition, working to sharpen and smarten up the new socialism rather than seeking Republican partners and bipartisan reforms.DeLong’s Twitter assessment of why the center-left no longer deserves to leads the Democratic Party is worth quoting in full:On the center … those like me in what used to proudly call itself the Rubin Wing of the Democratic Party — so-called after former Treasury Secretary Bob Rubin, and consisting of those of us hoping to use market means to social democratic ends in bipartisan coalition with Republicans seeking technocratic win-wins — have passed the baton to our left. Over the past 25 years, we failed to attract Republican coalition partners, we failed to energize our own base, and we failed to produce enough large-scale obvious policy wins to cement the center into a durable governing coalition. We blame cynical Republican politicians. We blame corrupt and craven media bosses and princelings. We are right to blame them, but shared responsibility is not diminished responsibility. And so the baton rightly passes to our colleagues on our left. We are still here, but it is not our time to lead.This is harsh but (somewhat) fair; if more members of the Western political elite were this self-critical, the Western political elite would be in (somewhat) better shape.But there is also something missing in DeLong’s self-criticism, a blind spot common to the contemporary center-left, which points to one reason a “durable governing coalition” may continue to elude the Democratic Party’s grasp.One way to distill the center-left failure that DeLong describes is this: Over the last 15 years, the center-left establishment in the United States separated itself from the Democratic base on two major issues — its support for the Iraq War in the early 2000s, and its support for a bipartisan “grand bargain” on fiscal issues in the early-to-middle Obama years. The first separation was a disaster, the second one was a mistake. And neither ultimately helped the Democratic coalition win elections.Another way to distill the failure is to say that in the last decade or so the center-left attempted a series of policy compromises — Obamacare instead of single-payer, cap-and-trade instead of a Green New Deal, modest upper-bracket tax increases instead of big attempts to soak the rich — and then discovered that the Republican Party was either still too far away ideologically or too much of an internally divided mess to make a lasting deal on any issue. And meanwhile the compromises were often unpopular with swing voters — as Obamacare was at first, as cap-and-trade or a carbon tax probably would be (just ask Emmanuel Macron) — so there was no obvious political advantage to making them pre-emptively.Both of these accounts fit DeLong’s narrative; both make a case for letting the further-left parts of the Democratic coalition try leadership instead, and seeking compromises between socialists and liberals rather than pining for moderate-Republican partners who don’t appear to be in evidence.But then consider a third distillation, a third narrative, in which the center-left’s signal political failure was that it never really sought to preserve a cultural centrism, which meant over time that its party’s approach to social issues has been dictated more and more completely by the left. In this story the political success of Bill Clinton reflected not only his compromises with Republicans on taxes and spending, his tacit nods to Reaganomics, but also his ability to infuse a centrist liberalism with reassuring nods to various kinds of moderate cultural conservatism — the school uniform and v-chip business and the rhetoric of “safe, legal and rare” on abortion, the easy Baptist religiosity, the tacitly center-right positions on immigration and crime and same-sex marriage.If Clinton had matched this cultural conservatism with decency in his private life, Al Gore would have won re-election as his heir and the larger story of the center-left might have been entirely different. But instead, from the mid-2000s onward, the leftward flank of the Democratic Party looked at the country’s changing demographics and growing social liberalism and decided that Clinton’s compromises with cultural conservatism weren’t as politically necessary as they had been (which was true), and that therefore they were free to become increasingly ideologically maximalist on everything touching gender or race or sexuality or immigration (which was … not true).In this sense the story of the Democrats’ struggles over the last 15 years is a story of a party that has consistently moved leftward faster than the also-changing country, and consistently overread victories — on same-sex marriage above all — as a template for how every cultural battle should play out. It’s a story of a new feminism that’s pushing the party ever-further from the center on abortion, of a new cohort of white liberals who are actually to the left of many African-Americans on racial issues, of an activist base that brands positions that many liberals held only yesterday as not only mistaken but bigoted or racist or beyond-the-pale.And in this part of the Democratic coalition’s story, the center-left’s role has been extraordinarily passive, essentially following the cultural left a tiny bit more slowly rather than trying to devise a more moderate approach. You can find hints of what such a moderate approach might look like in intellectual projects like Jonathan Haidt’s Heterodox Academy, or in the probing, evenhanded culture-war reportage of the magazine writer Jesse Singal (whom I hesitate to even praise because it will do him no favors on the internet). But that cultural moderation has no substantial political form, no important champions within the Democratic Party. It has Joe Manchin and Tulsi Gabbard, maybe, but they are eccentric figures; elsewhere among the Democrats there is little interest in considering all the different ways that cultural extremism costs them votes.Which means that if the center-left abdicates, DeLong-style, on economic policy, the Democratic Party as a whole will have moved to the left on every front, writing off not only the possibility of compromising with Republican politicians (which, for now, might be understandable) but also the possibility of winning over voters who would almost certainly be Democrats if the party still occupied the cultural terrain that it held in 2000 or even as late as 2008.Because the country as a whole has also shifted left since 2000, that kind of writing-off will not prevent the Democrats from winning elections; it probably won’t prevent them from beating Donald Trump. But it will stand in the way of any dramatic left-of-center consolidation, any kind of more-than-temporary Democratic governance. And if the center-left feels itself irrelevant in an age of socialist ambition, then taking up the task of rebuilding a cultural center, and a Democratic Party capable of claiming it, seems like the task that might actually be suited to the times.Sadly the rest of the DeLong thread didn’t take up that possibility. It degenerated, instead, into a howl against Republican fascism and a post-Protestant sermon about how liberal America can build the true and only heaven, the real shining city on the hill.Which suggests that to reckon with the possibility that making liberalism a pseudo-church might be a problem, not an aspiration, we need a very different center-left from the one surrendering today.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byForced parity is fundamentally antidemocratic.By Jochen BittnerHAMBURG, Germany — Women in Germany won the right to vote in 1918, but a century later they still do not enjoy equal representation. Though the country is led by a woman — who will, most likely, be succeeded by another woman — fewer than a third of the members of the federal Parliament, the Bundestag, are female. That’s why leading figures from all major German parties are now calling for parity: a 50-50 quota for male and female representatives in the Bundestag and the 16 state-level Parliaments. But is achieving a gender balance in Germany’s legislatures worth weakening another hard-fought accomplishment, the right to free electoral choice?This week the Parliament in Brandenburg became the first to require all political parties to nominate an even slate for state elections, starting in late 2020. The center-left Social Democratic Party is pushing for a similar rule for national elections. The party is already informally enforcing such a rule in its selection of candidates for the coming European Parliament elections, in May, in the process overruling the results of local party votes.Most people can agree that equal representation in our elected bodies is a desirable goal. In a democracy, the people’s representatives should look like the people. Laws that put more women onto the field might look like a good start. And parity laws achieve that goal. “I am not a great fan of quotas, but I like the results they bring,” said Viviane Reding, a former commissioner of the European Union. But parity laws come at too high a price. Forced parity would turn unequal representation, at least in part, into forced representation. It would question voter judgment and pre-engineer a certain result. It would impair the freedom of parties to nominate their best candidates. It would install a discriminatory principle that could eventually swing back at the very group it aims to emancipate.Nor will quotas, in the immediate term, do anything to overturn the root causes of gender disparity in political representation. The problem, not only in politics, is an unlevel playing field for men and women. Thousands of years of patriarchy exert their influence in thousands of ways. First, we have to tackle those.For example, we should ask what keeps women from entering politics in the first place. Legislative sessions, from local councils to the Bundestag, are time-intensive and family-unfriendly, often running late into the night. And in German society, for all its pretensions to gender equality, a woman is expected to be the primary caregiver, while it is less acceptable for a man to tell his superiors that he has to go home earlier to get the kids’ supper or put them to bed. Men and women are entitled to care for their families equally if they want to. It is every man’s duty to make this clear to his boss. And, if his boss doesn’t listen, it is the job of legislators to help change the rules so that he has to.A second factor is unconscious bias. For instance, a deep male voice is often associated with authority, whereas a female voice has less social clout and gets easier talked over. Too often this becomes an onus on women. Recently, the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, stated that “for a woman, commanding authority is something she needs to learn.” Margaret Thatcher underwent special training to lower her voice. Can anyone imagine the opposite: a male politician striving to sound more like a woman because the power struggle demands it? There you go. Too many women see these informal but powerful rules stacked against them, and stay away from politics altogether.Unconscious bias can’t be legislated away. But it can be fought in the public sphere, through government and private campaigns to raise awareness of the unseen barriers that keep women from engaging in politics.In fact, Germany may be well on its way. Women already have proportionally more representation in the Bundestag than men, when compared with their political engagement: The share of women in the Social Democrats’ parliamentary caucus is 42 percent, even though women make up 32 percent of the party’s membership. The Greens do even better: Women enjoy a majority in the caucus, while they make up 40 percent of their membership.Ms. Merkel’s center-right Christian Democrats, the largest party in the Bundestag, perform less well, with about 25 percent in each category. Yet the party has been led by a woman, Ms. Merkel, for 19 years, and in December it passed over two men to elect another woman, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, as its new leader. In other words, absent a quota, Germany is not about to reach gender parity in politics, but it is steadily moving in that direction — and will make even more strides if, in the meantime, it tackles some of the underlying issues keeping women from entering the field in the first place. One of the virtues of a gender-blind democracy, like the one established under Germany’s postwar Constitution, is that we can let these social changes play out as far as society wants. It’s not hard to imagine a day when the makeup is flipped, and women constitute 70 percent of the Bundestag. And that, above all, is the problem with quotas. I asked one of its proponents, a young Social Democrat named Kevin Kühnert, if his party’s parity rule would allow it to put up more than 50 percent women as its nominees. No, he said — it had to be 50-50. This is where the idea comes back to haunt its inventors. I had always thought that equal opportunity for women meant something else.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOne thing is clear in Thailand’s very messy election: Traditional elites of all persuasions are losing touch and traction.By Duncan McCargoMr. McCargo is a political scientist and a Thailand specialist.Thailand’s election last Sunday — the first in eight years and since the military deposed a democratically elected government in 2014 — was expected to be a tough fight. But the high-stakes contest has also turned out to be exceptionally fraught and dramatic, and the fallout promises to be as well. On Sunday night, after the polls had closed, the election commission first released inconsistent results — before it stopped releasing results altogether. Then it repeatedly delayed making a further announcement. Based on partial, preliminary returns, the junta’s proxy party claims to have won the most votes. But Pheu Thai, the leading pro-democracy party, says it has won the most seats in the 500-member House of Representatives. Yet the real winner of the election — in terms of both immediate surprise and long-term significance — is the brand-new, youth-oriented Future Forward, which cast itself as the party of liberal values and political dissent. It appears to have come in third. And perhaps for just that reason, it may soon be in trouble. On March 17, in a leafy corner of a university campus close to the royal palace in Bangkok, a tall and skinny 40-year-old man with short, spiky hair was surrounded by fans clamoring for selfies and autographs. This was no Korean pop star; it was Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, a billionaire claiming to stand for the 99 percent, who has become Thailand’s first social-media celebrity politician — a combination of heartthrob and giant-slaying hero.During the campaign, Mr. Thanathorn deployed surprisingly assertive, progressive rhetoric. He called for ending conscription and reducing the military budget and the number of generals. During a live TV debate  with the leaders of four other parties recently, he challenged the chief of the army by name, asking him if he would dare to storm the House of Representatives. “Would you shoot us, all 500 of us?” he asked. Thai politicians do not usually talk like this. A leading member of Future Forward told me last year that the party had been set up “to oppose hierarchism.” And Mr. Thanathorn’s outspoken but carefully calibrated defiance has struck a chord, especially, it seems, among younger voters. Of the 52 million Thais eligible to vote on Sunday, an estimated 7 million were first-timers. Since 2001, elections in Thailand have essentially been titanic clashes between, on the one hand, parties associated with the military and the traditional elite, notably the Democrat Party, and, on the other hand, parties linked to the controversial former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra — a telecommunications magnate who has managed to dominate the political scene even since going into self-imposed exile over a decade ago, after a conviction on corruption-related charges. The first camp appeals to the more affluent areas around Bangkok in the south, while pro-Thaksin parties are most popular in the poorer, populous north and northeast.This year again, the main showdown was between Pheu Thai, a descendant of Mr. Thaksin’s own party, and Palang Pracharat, a pragmatic alliance of conservative politicians and military officers widely seen as a vehicle to keep Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, the leader of the 2014 coup, in power. Yet the more significant outcome of the election may be its secondary results: the old-time Democrats’ very poor showing and the fledgling Future Forward’s unexpectedly good returns. Familiar forces may continue to dominate the political landscape, but it also has resolutely changed. Traditional elites of all persuasions are losing touch, and traction.In early February, another, smaller, Thaksin-linked party, Thai Raksa Chart, nominated the king’s older sister, Ubolratana Rajakanya Sirivadhana Varnavadi, as its candidate for prime minister. A firestorm of speculation erupted on social media about why and at whose urging — until King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun declared that any royal involvement in politics was inappropriate. Ms. Ubolratana promptly withdrew her candidacy and Thai Raksa Chart was dissolved — a turn of events that weakened Pheu Thai, which had joined forces with Thai Raksa Chart and agreed not to compete with it in some constituencies.Mr. Thaksin hit back with an astonishing piece of showmanship. Just two days before the election, he hosted in Hong Kong a ritzy wedding party for his youngest daughter that featured Ms. Ubolratana as guest of honor. Photos showing Mr. Thaksin and Ms. Ubolratana together promptly circulated online.The following night — the eve of the election — King Vajiralongkorn issued another royal statement. Quoting his late father, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, he urged Thais to select “good people” to rule Thailand, in the name of “harmony, national security and the people’s happiness.” The message was widely interpreted as a rebuke of Mr. Thaksin and an implicit call to endorse parties aligned with the junta.A hashtag that translates as “We are grown-up now and can choose for ourselves” soon went viral. The establishment had chastised the young, and now the young were pushing back against paternalism. On the morning of the election, in Ubon Ratchathani, a midsize city in the northeast, a first-time voter told me, grinning, that he did indeed plan to vote for “someone good” — meaning, Mr. Thanathorn.The face of Thailand’s next government is likely to remain unclear for a while. On Wednesday, seven pro-democracy parties, including Pheu Thai and Future Forward, announced that since the “democratic front” they form had won a majority of the lower house, it should get to select Thailand’s next leader. (The prime minister is chosen by a majority vote of the full Legislature, with includes the 500 elected members of the House of Representatives and 250 military-appointed senators.)The election commission released partial results on Thursday, but only for 350 of the 500 seats contested; the remaining 150 are to be allocated according to a complicated formula based on each party’s showing overall. No final, complete results are expected until after King Vajiralongkorn’s coronation in early May.More legal challenges could soon engulf the pro-democracy parties. The police have accused Mr. Thanathorn, and two of his colleagues at Future Forward, of “spreading false information online” — a charge that carries a sentence of up to five years in prison. A lawsuit could endanger his entire party. But whatever happens next to Future Forward, its showing in this week’s election was remarkable. And that performance has laid bare yet another fracture in an already very divided political scene: a major generation gap.  Any attempt by the establishment to suppress the youthful idealism of Thailand’s new voters could be a dangerous miscalculation. Duncan McCargo is a professor of political science at the University of Leeds and a visiting professor at Columbia University.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySidebarBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The last Supreme Court term ended with a constitutional cliffhanger. In a pair of cases that had the potential to reshape American democracy, the justices refused to decide whether election maps can be so warped by politics that they violate the Constitution.Instead, the court said, in essence, “Come back next term.”Next week, a year after the court last heard arguments over whether extreme partisan gerrymandering can cross a constitutional line, the justices will again consider the question.But something fundamental has changed. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, whose vote was seen as crucial to any decision putting limits on partisan gerrymandering, retired last summer.In Supreme Court litigation, as in so many things, timing is everything. Had Justice Kennedy stayed on the court, there are good reasons to think he would have been particularly receptive to the plaintiffs’ arguments in one of next week’s cases.If one thing was clear from his questions last term, Justice Kennedy thought that overt efforts to favor candidates from one political party were deeply problematic.In the first case, from Wisconsin, he asked whether a state could enact a law explicitly requiring election maps to favor one party. Lawyers for state officials said such a law would violate the Constitution.In the second case, from Maryland, Justice Kennedy asked pretty much the same question, adding the prescient phrase “partisan advantage.”“Suppose the Maryland Constitution had a provision that required that partisan advantage for one party be the predominant consideration in any districting,” he said. “Lawful or not?”He plainly thought the answer was “not.” A lawyer for the state seemed to agree.On March 26, the court will consider a case from North Carolina that looks a lot like the hypothetical one Justice Kennedy had asked about. Indeed, the challenged plan included a criterion called “partisan advantage.”The Republican lawmakers who drew the state’s congressional map in 2016 could hardly have been more blatant. They explained that the state’s congressional delegation, in a purple state in which neither party had a distinct edge, was at the time made up of 10 Republicans and three Democrats. A key goal, they said, was “to maintain the current partisan makeup of North Carolina’s congressional delegation.”Representative David Lewis, a Republican member of the General Assembly’s redistricting committee, elaborated.“I think electing Republicans is better than electing Democrats,” he said. “So I drew this map to help foster what I think is better for the country.”“I propose that we draw the maps to give a partisan advantage to 10 Republicans and three Democrats,” he said, “because I do not believe it’s possible to draw a map with 11 Republicans and two Democrats.”The plan worked. In 2016, Republican congressional candidates won 53 percent of the statewide vote. But, as predicted, they again won in 10 of the 13 congressional districts, or 77 percent of them.In 2018, the statewide vote was about evenly divided, but Democrats again secured only three seats. (Following evidence of election fraud, one seat remains open.)The Supreme Court has never struck down a voting map on the grounds that it was drawn to amplify the power of the political party in control of the state legislature. But Justice Kennedy, in his questions last term and in a 2004 concurring opinion, left the door open to the possibility that some kinds of political gamesmanship may be too extreme.In their Supreme Court brief, North Carolina lawmakers asked the court to close that door. The Constitution, they wrote, contemplated a role for politics in redistricting by assigning the task to state legislatures, adding that federal courts have no role to play in supervising the legislatures’ judgments.“The time has come,” they wrote, “for this court to make clear that the Constitution does not provide courts with the tools or the responsibility to say how much partisan motivation is too much.”The lawmakers warned the Supreme Court that its authority would be threatened if it were seen to be making political choices. That was an echo of comments from Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. in the argument in the Wisconsin case.“We will have to decide in every case whether the Democrats win or the Republicans win,” he said, adding, “And that is going to cause very serious harm to the status and integrity of the decisions of this court in the eyes of the country.”Partisan gerrymandering is almost as old as the nation, and both parties have used it. Indeed, in a companion case from Maryland that will be argued the same day as the one from North Carolina, Republican voters are challenging a district drawn by Democratic lawmakers.But in recent years, as Republicans captured state legislatures around the country, they have been the primary architects and beneficiaries of partisan gerrymandering. Using increasingly sophisticated software, they have drawn voting districts to favor their party’s candidates.Justice Kennedy, writing in 2004, said he had not been able to find “a manageable standard” for separating ordinary politics from unconstitutional gerrymandering. But he said he did know one thing.“If a state passed an enactment that declared ‘All future apportionment shall be drawn so as most to burden Party X’s rights to fair and effective representation, though still in accord with one-person, one-vote principles,’” he wrote, “we would surely conclude the Constitution had been violated.”To hear the challengers tell it, that is what happened in North Carolina. But they will be making their arguments to a new audience, one that may not be as receptive as the court that included Justice Kennedy.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter @adamliptak.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byYair Lapid, Israel’s consummate centrist, explains why his party can unseat Israel’s prime minister.By Bari WeissMs. Weiss is a staff editor and writer for the Opinion section.TEL AVIV — Imagine if Joe Biden and Colin Powell announced that they were setting aside partisan politics and forming a new centrist party to save the country from Donald Trump. Then imagine that they were so serious about their goal that they promised to share power, rotating the roles of president and secretary of state.Could they win?That is the question Israeli voters are asking themselves. Last month, Benny Gantz, a former chief of staff of the army and a political rookie, and Yair Lapid, a former journalist and finance minister, came together to form Blue and White. (Mr. Gantz would serve as prime minister first, with Mr. Lapid as foreign minister.) The centrist party is named after the colors of the flag; its candidates are an all-star lineup of top military brass; and polls so far have put Blue and White neck and neck with Benjamin Netanyahu’s ruling Likud. Over a week, I met many voters who say they will cast their ballot on April 9 for the centrists. Why? To a person, the answer boiled down to two words: Not Bibi.I met Mr. Lapid on Thursday evening for tea at a North Tel Aviv cafe. When I ran this anyone-but-Bibi read of the election past him, he shot back that it was “dead wrong.”In the hour that followed, Mr. Lapid, who calls himself a barometer of the Israeli center, made his case to me.Voters are turning to his party because they are looking for basic morality, he said. While the sitting prime minister faces three charges of corruption, the men of Blue and White (the top eight of the 10 politicians on the list are men) are motivated by “old-fashioned, duty calls politics.” While Mr. Netanyahu’s message is one of division, Blue and White speaks about unity. And while Bibi has forged an alliance with the explicitly anti-Arab party Otzma Yehudit, Mr. Lapid said that a “racist” party “cannot be a part of a government in this country.” The second difference between the men of Blue and White and Bibi, said Mr. Lapid, is how they see the role of Israel in a world in which democracy is on the decline. While Bibi has aligned himself with right-wing populists like Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil and Viktor Orban of Hungary, Mr. Lapid sees common cause with liberals like France’s Emmanuel Macron and Mark Rutte of the Netherlands. He hopes such politicians represent “a comeback of civil, moderate” leaders who understand “the risks and hazards of populism.”Chief among those hazards is anti-Semitism. Mr. Lapid said he is “very upset” by what he sees happening in Hungary — the country where his father survived the Nazi genocide. Given his concern with Mr. Orban’s historical revisionism, the way the autocrat has demonized the Jewish philanthropist George Soros, and his general xenophobia, what does Mr. Lapid make of the fact that Israel’s current government has cozied up to the Hungarian leader? “A country as small as Israel, facing our magnitude of threats, cannot be that picky about the way other countries decide to govern themselves,” he began. But, he added, “we also have a moral duty. I pushed forward in the last Knesset a recognition of the Armenian Holocaust even though this is not the right practical move opposite the Turks. Because there is a point where you say enough is enough.”He was far more careful when I turned to the subject of Donald Trump. “I am, like any other Israeli, thankful for President Trump. I sat at the opening of the Embassy in Jerusalem with tears in my eyes,” he said. What of Mr. Trump’s recent flurry of statements about how the Democratic Party has become anti-Israel and anti-Jewish? “I’m going to say this as politely as I can,” Mr. Lapid said. “He was wrong. I don’t think you can say that Eliot Engel and Jerry Nadler and Ted Deutch and Chuck Schumer don’t like Israel. They are the most pro-Israel people I know.” Mr. Lapid said one of his priorities if he wins would be to rebuild support for Israel among progressives. “Israel must be a bipartisan issue,” he said.One of the casualties of Israel becoming an increasingly partisan issue has been American Jews themselves, who vote overwhelmingly Democratic and who see Israel’s rightward turn as betraying fundamental liberal values. In other words, American Jews find themselves stuck between B.D.S. — the boycott movement against Israel — and Bibi. “I understand the fact that some kind of gap was opened between Israel and the diaspora,” Mr. Lapid said of this problem. “I think what unites us — culturally, morally — is way bigger than what separates us. And what we need to go back to is this vocabulary of one people.”It is when Mr. Lapid talks about Jewish values and Jewish history that he is the most compelling. Doubly so when it comes to the subject of his father, Tommy Lapid, a Holocaust survivor who built a life in Israel as a journalist and then as a politician, and died in 2008.“My father had a friend in the Budapest ghetto. His name was Thomas Lantos,” Mr. Lapid said. “After the Holocaust, they went to the same pier in the same harbor and Tom took a boat and went left and my dad took a boat and went right.” Mr. Lantos eventually ended up in California, where he became a Democratic member of the House of Representatives and head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. “They always felt that if they took the opposite boat, Tom would be the minister of justice and my father would be the head of the foreign committee.”“We are the revolving door,” he said, an unusual but beautiful metaphor for Jews’ shared sense of history and destiny. “I was once a young journalist in this country. I could have been you and you could have been me. We share something that we don’t totally have the words for. This is what the anti-Semites hate. We have something they don’t understand.”Ultimately, though, what drives Israeli elections is not fine words about Jewish peoplehood, any more than it is marijuana legalization or tax policy. It is security. Anyone who has paid any attention to the past two decades of headlines — the Second Intifada, Hamas’s rise in Gaza, the failed Arab Spring, the Syrian civil war — should understand Israelis’ sense of vulnerability in the region. Mr. Netanyahu’s long experience reassures many voters who still see Mr. Lapid as a former TV personality lacking in real substance and Mr. Gantz as a political novice.Mr. Lapid is aware of this. “Security will be the first demand every Israeli in his right mind will talk to you about,” he told me.“There are several issues in which the majority of Israelis — 70 to 80 percent — think approximately the same,” he said. “We are all students of the disengagement of 2005, in which Israel did what the world asked us to do. We left Gaza. We dismantled the settlements. And I supported it at the time. But you know what? It was a mistake, doing it unilaterally. The only thing that happened is that less than a year later they voted Hamas into power. We left them with 3,000 greenhouses for them to build an economy and instead they built training camps” for jihadis. So where does that leave the West Bank? Can the occupation go on indefinitely?He paused. “It’s a very American question.” Because Americans think “everything is fixable.” “Really, really wanting something or desiring something strongly is just not enough,” he said. “I’m not willing to see one Jew die because someone took an unnecessary risk in the name of values I really cherish. Like peace, like humanity, like people’s need for self-recognition.”“We need to have the vision and the courage Menachem Begin had. But we also need to be very patient waiting for an Anwar Sadat on the other side. And there is no Sadat on the other side right now,” he says, referring to the Egyptian leader who made peace with Israel in 1979 — a cold peace that continues to this day.In a way, this hawkish consensus is the story that Americans have missed about Israel. No serious contender for the prime ministership is talking about peace or an imminent two-state solution. Indeed, the fact that Mr. Lapid believes Blue and White can form “a unity coalition with post-Netanyahu Likud and Labor” shows just how far to the right Israel has shifted.Two hours after I left Mr. Lapid, I heard the deep boom of the Iron Dome intercepting rockets over Tel Aviv. Back at the hotel, the receptionist showed me the bomb shelter, just in case. In the morning, I read that Israel had hit 100 targets in Gaza overnight.“The Hamas rockets shot at Tel Aviv were a gift” to Bibi, a senior Israeli official, who asked for anonymity, told me the next day. “Netanyahu could fire back at a hundred Gazan targets without risking war. Hamas knows just how far it can push him, and he knows how far he can push back. The same cannot be said of Benny Gantz. If Blue and White is elected, he’s sure to be tested by Hamas and others, with untold consequences.”Mr. Lapid thinks he and Mr. Gantz are more than up to the task. “The Holocaust taught us that the only test of moral people is in immoral times,” he said. “This translates in Israel into daily dilemmas. You’re a young officer and someone is shooting at you and your soldiers from inside a hospital. What do you do? Who do you protect? How do you solve this problem? This tension between morality and survival is to me the core of 21st-century Judaism,” he said. “It is true in Pittsburgh. It is true in Tel Aviv. It is true everywhere. And I consider myself the keeper of this dilemma.”An earlier version of this article included an incorrect breakdown of the gender of the leaders of the Blue and White Party. Two of the top 10 are women, not one of 10.Bari Weiss is a staff editor and writer for the Opinion section.  @bariweiss Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byFirst WordsBy Beverly GageIn politics, the visuals matter. We imagine the electorate in red and blue, solid colors representing a divided country. This fails to capture how Americans actually vote; even in the reddest states, hundreds of thousands of people mark their ballots for Democrats, and vice versa. But our collective imagination puts us in one place or the other: Trump country or Obamaland, home turf or hostile territory.A more subtle metaphor is the “political spectrum,” a straight line with opinionated Americans distributed along its length. This, too, has its distorting qualities. It still presupposes there are only two fundamental worldviews, left and right, and that people’s preferences and temperaments will align, neatly and self-evidently, somewhere between them. In this formulation, there is supposed to be a perfect center, the halfway point where opposing traditions meet — and somebody is supposed to be standing there, looking reasonable, seeing merit on both sides.But what happens if that center ceases to exist — or if few people want to stand on it? This, supposedly, is our current situation, in which polarization and ideological diffusion have turned the center into no man’s land. “Susan Collins is trying to stay in the political center,” a headline in Time magazine lamented last month, of the Maine Republican senator, “but that may not exist anymore.” A few weeks later, The Wall Street Journal noted “the shrinking of the political middle” around the world and predicted dire consequences: “As the far right and far left gain strength, countries find it increasingly difficult to get things done.”This development has inspired a profusion of strategies for reviving the center as a viable political space. Some focus (already!) on the 2020 electoral cycle, as Democrats debate whether a “centrist” or “progressive” candidate seems more likely to defeat Donald Trump. (Howard Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, has floated the ill-conceived idea of running as a “centrist independent.”) Others are looking to policy debates. In 2018, the nonpartisan Niskanen Center published a report titled “The Center Can Hold,” arguing for “a modest, empirical, comparative approach to political economy and policy analysis” — thus making Niskanen the ultimate in centrist politics, a “center center.”Behind much of this is a longing for a more orderly and sober political sphere, in which the answers to questions like “Do refugees deserve human dignity?” and “Should the government be allowed to function?” can be taken for granted. To yearn for the center is to imagine a politics without conflict, in which people of good will mostly agree on basic principles and deliberate calmly about everything else. In an age of partisan vitriol, it’s easy to see the appeal of this adults-in-the-room vision.The very things that can make the center so appealing, however, are also its great weaknesses. As worried centrists have long noted, it can be hard to rally the people behind a message of pragmatism, compromise and limits. It can also be challenging to know exactly what a “centrist” is supposed to believe, especially in an age of multiple clashing agendas. Centrism is more about process than ideology, a faith in practical politics over moral absolutes. Its range of available ideas is mostly determined by what other people think. If we really are lined up along a spectrum, then the location of the center depends mostly on what happens at the extremes. The center cannot hold, or stay in the same place, because it was, by definition, never meant to.The poet laureate of the center has long been Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., whose 1949 book, “The Vital Center,” aimed to transform the word from a signifier of compromise into the proud label of a “fighting faith.” Schlesinger worried that Americans had not learned an essential lesson from World War II: that democracy had to be defended against totalitarianism with vigor and determination, always and forever. For him, that meant rejecting the temptations of both the left and the right, where communism and fascism lay in wait. Instead, he urged Americans to rally around the essential democratic values of “compromise, persuasion and consent in politics,” along with “tolerance and diversity in society.”Schlesinger readily admitted that this could be difficult — that pluralism and compromise lacked some of the “passion” of more self-confident ideologies. His book was nothing if not defensive; the title itself presupposed that the center was generally seen as not so vital at all, a place you landed for lack of better options. He saw, around the globe, “philosophies of blood and violence” that could make democracy feel “pale and feeble” in comparison. He was also wary of domestic extremes: The right’s profit-seeking created social misery and class conflict, while progressives embraced utopian policies without asking whether they would work, and without contending with the limits of human perfectibility.Schlesinger saw the center as a place in between, where policy could be made with one eye on social order and the other on modest self-improvement. His goal was to claim the moral authority of that space for his own political vision — a renewed form of New Deal liberalism. If appeals to centrism lack a certain oomph, they compensate with an air of legitimacy, the ability to posit that your own view is the only reasonable option.In one interpretation, Schlesinger got at least some of what he wanted. The decade that followed — the 1950s — has often been described as an age of “liberal consensus,” in which Americans from all walks of life shared key values. But historians have long chipped away at this interpretation. This was also the era when the modern conservative movement got its start, and the decade’s reputation for “consensus” holds only if you ignore countless marginalized voices and a whole lot of labor conflicts. Even if you concede the existence of a midcentury consensus, it’s not at all clear that this was a good thing. Like the “center,” it carries a whiff of closed-circle elitism, one that produced bipartisan dinner parties more readily than civil rights legislation.By the end of the 1960s, in any case, whatever consensus once existed was unraveling. Within 20 years of “The Vital Center,” Americans were denouncing one another as “pigs,” hypocrites and moral monsters with a vehemence that rivals anything now trending on Twitter. Back then, of course, the two major parties still overlapped; there were self-avowed conservative Democrats and liberal Republicans. Today the parties are firmly divided by ideology. In that sense, the crisis of the center may have less to do with what ordinary Americans think and more with our political institutions — which now often worsen, rather than mediate, our conflicts.Today’s centrists remain plagued by the anxieties and contradictions that worried Schlesinger, calling for “bold moderation” while acknowledging that the two words fit uneasily together. Still, they have their own version of swaggering populism — the conviction that a vast, hidden swath of Americans agrees with them. Candidates who move toward the center assume a deep pool of voters will be waiting there, eager to be rescued from vitriol and nonsense. Once in office, moderates often claim to speak for the masses, seeking to make government work better for everyone. Bill Clinton was a master of this approach, the rare charismatic politician who could make triangulation seem like a crusade on behalf of the people.For all its populist trappings, though, the center — like any other political identity — is about exclusion as much as inclusion. This may be one reason it seems so difficult to occupy that space right now. Centrist compromise might seem like common sense when it comes to tax policy or the ideal blend of state and market forces. It’s more controversial when fundamental matters of justice are at stake.Despite these challenges, the center may not yet be an entirely lost cause. In most activist traditions, a key goal is to move an idea from the fringe to the center, transforming the impossible into the inevitable, the unthinkable into conventional wisdom. If we can’t find our national center right now, it may be because that center is shifting, just as it’s supposed to. Schlesinger himself acknowledged that the center could never occupy a fixed location, and that it would continue to adapt to new challenges; “all important problems are insoluble,” he wrote. “The good,” he concluded, “comes from the continuing struggle to try and solve them,” and from keeping in mind “the spirit of human decency.” These were meant to be values of the center, but they can seem nothing short of radical today.Beverly Gage is a history professor at Yale University, where she directs the Brady-Johnson Program in Grand Strategy. She last wrote on the usefulness of political strategy.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe Northam/Fairfax scandals are forcing the party to reckon between its commitment to equality and its control of the state.By Leah Wright RigueurMs. Rigueur is an assistant professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government.For over 50 years, the Democratic Party has carried the banner of racial and gender equality, and all the more so during the Trump era. In contrast to an increasingly dystopian Republican Party, Democrats from the left and the center have united behind an idealistic image of their party as a rainbow coalition of resistance against racism and sexism. The last 10 days in Virginia have thrown all of that into disarray — and demonstrated that political power will always trump political idealism. But rather than throwing away their power in pursuit of moral purity, or cynically accepting the realities of American politics, the party is finding its way to a more calculated wisdom: that power and idealism may undermine each other, but they are also inextricably linked.For the Democratic Party, the recent series of blackface and sexual assault scandals at the top of the state’s leadership at first seemed like a moment for a thorough house cleaning. By the standards of an institution that has recently redefined itself in part by what Donald Trump and the Republicans are not, we would expect Democratic politicians to call for everyone’s resignation. Racism should have no quarter in the Democratic Party. Neither should sexual assault.But reality, as the party is once again learning, is never that simple, especially where power is involved. The ouster of Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark Herring, who have both admitted to wearing blackface in their youth, and Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax, who is accused of multiple sexual assaults, may demonstrate the party’s moral stance, but it would also hand over the reins of state power to the Republicans. Virginia residents will end up with a policy and political agenda that the majority of voters rejected in 2017. It is the kind of agonizing Catch-22 that immediately provoked varying levels of schadenfreude from politicians and pundits on the right, even though they have been far more explicit in their disregard for race and gender and their desire to obtain power by any means necessary. In fact, the alt-right organization that jump-started this saga by leaking Mr. Northam’s racist yearbook photo on the first day of Black History Month admitted to doing so in the hopes of torpedoing the governor’s policy agenda — and producing the sort of internal gridlock that would come from forcing the party to weigh its legacy on racial and gender equality against its desire to retain power in the state.But a funny thing has happened over the last few days. Democratic leaders and politicians, once strongly united in calling for Mr. Northam’s resignation, abruptly switched gears after two women accused Mr. Fairfax of rape. Most of the prominent Democratic presidential candidates, who had called on the governor to resign and for an investigation into the lieutenant governor, have flipped; now most are urging Mr. Fairfax to resign, and Mr. Northam and Mr. Herring to stay in office. Even Mr. Fairfax may get a reprieve, at least for the moment. Last week Patrick A. Hope, a Democratic member of the Virginia House of Delegates, declared that he would bring articles of impeachment against Mr. Fairfax unless he resigned; then, over the weekend, Mr. Hope circulated a softened resolution to explore a recommendation of impeachment, based on an investigation of the sexual assault allegations (both of Mr. Fairfax’s accusers have expressed a willingness to testify publicly). On Monday morning, Mr. Hope reiterated his support for Mr. Fairfax’s accusers while admitting that he was open to approaches other than impeachment, provided they feature the voices of the women.The Democratic Party’s whiplash-inducing change of stance, and the furtive negotiations that have gone into that maneuvering, have been revealing. Though a trickle of Virginia lawmakers continues to call for Mr. Northam’s resignation, it is increasingly apparent that Democrats in Virginia and across the nation have adopted a political tactic that explicitly is about protecting their power. But in doing so, they have also tentatively crafted an argument that suggests that maintaining Democratic power is both a moral and a pragmatic matter of justice — moral in the sense that the Democratic Party has an obligation to its base to guard against the Republicans’ agenda; pragmatic in the sense that Mr. Northam and Mr. Herring, as exposed racists (or racial ignoramuses) are indebted to the party’s base of core supporters and loyalists — namely black women and men. It is no surprise that as Mr. Northam continues on his cringe-inducing apology tour, the one noteworthy spot has been his repeated promise to make racial concerns and issues the centerpiece of his political and policy agenda. Nor is it surprising that at least part of the Democratic base apparently endorses this approach — in a recent Washington Post-Schar School poll, nearly 60 percent of black voters favor keeping Mr. Northam as governor. Those voters, so long oppressed by the political system, seem to understand better than anyone the importance of accepting the imperfections of politics as a means to an end.Leah Wright Rigueur, an assistant professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, is the author of “The Loneliness of the Black Republican: Pragmatic Politics and the Pursuit of Power.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael WinesThe Supreme Court heard arguments on Tuesday over whether congressional district maps in Maryland and North Carolina were unconstitutional partisan gerrymanders — favoring Democrats in Maryland and Republicans in North Carolina.The arguments reprised parts of a hearing last year on the same Maryland case in which the court often seemed divided on partisan lines over key issues. In the Tuesday session, the court’s newest member, Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, seemed open to crucial arguments from both sides, suggesting to some that he could prove a swing vote on a closely divided issue. Most experts anticipate a ruling in late June.Here are answers to some common questions about rigged electoral maps and the Revolutionary patriot for whom they are (perhaps unfairly) named.The goal of gerrymandering is to draw political boundaries in ways that maximize a governing party’s advantage. Drafters accomplish it mainly through two practices that are commonly called packing and cracking.A packed district is drawn to include as many members of the opposition party as possible. That helps the governing party capture and hold surrounding districts where the opposition’s strength has been diluted.Cracking does the opposite: It splits up clusters of opposition voters among two or more districts, so they will be outnumbered by backers of the governing party in each district.An efficient gerrymandered map doles out just enough support to governing party candidates to let them win and hold seats safely, even in “wave” elections when their opponents do especially well. And it limits the opposition to a minimum number of packed districts that it wins overwhelmingly.Currently, rigged maps are most prevalent, and most tilted, in states under Republican control. That is in part because Republicans did exceptionally well in the 2010 elections, giving them far wider control of state legislatures, which oversaw the redistricting that followed the 2010 census. The national Republican Party had poured money and expertise into state legislative races with the specific aim of gaining control over redistricting; the Democratic Party had not.Many political scientists consider the House maps in Republican states like North Carolina, Michigan, Ohio and Texas to have the most pronounced partisan slants. (Pennsylvania was also on the list until its map was redrawn last year.) Among Democratic states, Maryland, Illinois and — among some observers — California are regarded as the most tilted. Illinois is especially notable for its “pizza slice” division of metropolitan Chicago, using generous helpings of urban Democrats to offset the heavily Republican suburbs in district after district.Perhaps the most notable recent example comes from the Wisconsin State Assembly, whose members are all elected every two years. Wisconsin is a political battleground that swings from Republican to Democratic and back again in statewide elections for governor, United States senator and other offices.After the Republican majority gerrymandered the Assembly in 2011, the party won a supermajority. Then in 2018, Republicans retained that supermajority, even as Democrats won every statewide office.A string of lawsuits dating back decades have argued that partisan gerrymanders violate the Constitution. The Supreme Court has struck down gerrymanders based on race, but never those based on party, largely because the justices could not agree on a legal standard that would let them distinguish illegally partisan maps from acceptable ones.The current challenges to the House maps in North Carolina and Maryland emphasize new legal arguments against gerrymandering, primarily that it punishes voters for choosing a minority party.Many people think the cases will be the court’s last opportunity for a generation to break the impasse over partisan maps.A ruling against the maps, even if sharply limited in scope, would signal to state legislators that extreme partisan gerrymandering will no longer be tolerated.But the court could throw up its hands instead, and say that gerrymandered maps are a political problem that the courts cannot solve — or kick the can down the legal road based on technical issues. Either of those choices would probably make the next round of redistricting in 2021 a partisan blood bath in states where one party controls the process.A decision by the Supreme Court not to outlaw partisan gerrymanders could hasten the efforts already underway to challenge them in state courts — some state constitutions offer more favorable legal grounds than the national Constitution does. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court invalidated the state’s Republican-drawn congressional map last year based solely on the state constitution, and Democrats went on to score major gains in the 2018 House elections in the state.Such a decision would probably also give new momentum to citizen-led campaigns to take map-drawing away from state politicians and give it to independent redistricting commissions. Ballot initiatives in Ohio, Michigan, Missouri, Colorado and Utah overhauled the redistricting process last year, and advocacy groups are preparing similar campaigns in Virginia and other states.Some historians trace partisan mapmaking to Patrick Henry, who is said to have drawn a Virginia House district in the first congressional election, in 1789, to ensure the defeat of his rival, James Madison (other historians take issue with that claim). But the practice takes its name from Elbridge Gerry, Madison’s vice president.When he was governor of Massachusetts in 1812, Mr. Gerry signed a bill allowing his party to draw State Senate districts that were meant to favor its candidates over the rival Federalists. One serpentine district looked to some like a salamander; a Boston editorial cartoonist drew it with a head and claws and labeled it the “gerry-mander.”Some footnotes to that history: The new maps did not wind up thwarting the Federalists. Mr. Gerry may have been unfairly tarred; there is no clear evidence that he supported the maps his party drew.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe G.O.P. needs to finally figure out, or at least start figuring out, exactly what it stands for on health care policy.By Peter SudermanMr. Suderman is features editor at Reason.Judging by exit polls, the single most effective midterm issue for Democrats was health care — in particular, the argument, made by Democratic candidates across the country, that Republicans were out to eliminate the Affordable Care Act’s regulations governing pre-existing conditions.So when a Texas judge ruled in December that the entirety of the health law was unconstitutional, he ensured that this issue, and this argument, would remain front and center heading into the 2020 election. Legally speaking, the ruling is weak, and the case may be tossed in the appeals process. But if it travels all the way to the Supreme Court, it would effectively guarantee that health care remains politically potent throughout the presidential campaign. You can expect the Democrats’ cast-of-thousands presidential field to all swear to protect Obamacare’s pre-existing conditions rules — and President Trump to demonstrate his usual command of the finer points of health care policy in response.The ruling thus represents a challenge for Republicans — but also an opportunity. At least in theory, it could force the party to finally figure out, or at least start figuring out, exactly what it stands for when it comes to health care policy.The empty mantra of “repeal and replace” — which was all but buried by the midterms — was never a stand-in for an actual shared vision for the governance of health care in the United States. At the moment, the party seems confused about what, exactly, American health care policy should look like.That confusion extends beyond Obamacare to Medicare (which President Trump has ruled off limits) and Medicaid (which the repeal bills tried and failed to restructure), as well as to the tax deduction for employer-sponsored insurance around which health care policy has contorted for so many decades.It’s not that there’s a shortage of ideas: Conservative think tanks have health policy white papers to spare, and have for years. All the way back in 2012, for example, you could find the right-of-center health policy scholars James Capretta and Robert E. Moffit outlining principles for an Obamacare replacement in the journal National Affairs. Their plan called for limiting the tax break employers get for offering health coverage, converting existing public coverage programs to premium support (essentially a subsidy) while promoting competition among private plans, protecting people who maintain continuous coverage from spikes in premiums, and allowing states more flexibility to opt in and out of national health care initiatives.The Cato Institute’s Michael Cannon has long called for the creation of large Health Savings Accounts that would significantly increase the amount of money individuals could put into tax-free accounts for medical expenses, including health insurance, potentially giving millions of people an optional exit from employer-sponsored insurance.What connects these ideas is that they are not merely bullet-pointed lists of policy tweaks; they are frameworks for thinking more broadly about what federal health policy can, and perhaps should, be.That sort of thinking — about both general principles and the specific policy components necessary to make them a reality — is exactly what the Republican Party lacks, and what it desperately needs.It’s true that some Republican lawmakers have cobbled together proposals of varying degrees of specificity over the year: During his 2016 campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida sketched out a mostly forgotten health care plan that would have set up a broad-based system of refundable tax credits intended to subsidize the purchase of insurance in hopes of helping people buy coverage. And during the 2017 Obamacare repeal effort, Senators Lindsey Graham and Bill Cassidy offered a plan to give states far more flexibility, eliminating many of Obamacare's provisions at the national level while essentially turning the program into a block grant to the states.But these efforts have tended to be cursory and short-lived, with tiny or nonexistent constituencies. Few conservative lawmakers talk about them today, and it’s unclear whether many Republicans in Congress today even grasp the basics.Which is why, for all these ideas, if you ask Republican politicians what they stand for when it comes to health policy, you are likely to hear slogans like “patient centered” and “preserving the doctor-patient relationship” and possibly something about how Democrats want to “socialize Medicare” — as if the nation’s largest government health program is not already an essentially socialist enterprise.So it’s possible to imagine that at least some in the party will try to resolve, or at least start acknowledging, some of these questions. More likely, given the state of the G.O.P. under Trump, who is no one’s idea of a wonk, is that Republicans will simply decline to pursue the issue with any force, and the shabbiness of the party’s current non-position will become even more glaring. Indeed, just this month, Mr. Trump continued to predict Obamacare’s demise, saying he believed that “it’s going to be terminated,” possibly as a result of the Texas case, and that in the aftermath, “a deal will be made for good health care in this country.” What sort of deal? I suspect that even (perhaps especially) the president doesn’t know.That sort of glibness, in turn, is likely to give already-ascendant Democratic ideas a boost. The party’s enthusiasm for Medicare for All has flourished recently in part because it exists in a vacuum, with little if any substantive competition from the right. There are serious practical and political impediments to making a transition to single payer, from the enormous increase in federal spending and the tax increases it would almost certainly entail to the disruption that would be caused by the elimination of current private health insurance coverage for millions of Americans.Yet by failing to make even a halfhearted case for an alternative, Republicans are helping to clear the path for their opponents. When the options presented are single-payer or “I don’t know,” it’s not surprising that many Americans would gravitate toward the former.In the meantime, the Texas case will ensure that the Republicans’ waffling and uncertainty on policy basics, like legal requirements regarding pre-existing conditions, remain in the spotlight. The red state attorneys general who brought the case may have imagined it was a clever way to highlight Obamacare’s flaws, but instead it shined a spotlight on their own.Peter Suderman is features editor at Reason.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThey’ve brought down a government. Now they could bring down the entire country.By Omar G. EncarnaciónMr. Encarnación is a professor and expert on Spanish politics.Anyone looking for evidence of how irrational politics can be should look to Catalonia right now.Earlier this month, Catalan separatists in the Spanish Parliament voted against the 2019 national budget proposal of the Socialist prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, forcing a snap general election in late April. The separatists were retaliating against Mr. Sánchez because he would not agree to a referendum on Catalan independence. The last referendum, organized in October 2017, which was declared illegal by Spain’s Constitutional Tribunal and boycotted by those opposed to independence, plunged Spain into its deepest political crisis since the death of Gen. Francisco Franco in 1975.In forcing early elections and the potential fall of the Sánchez government, which came to power in June following a vote of no confidence against Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of the conservative Popular Party, the Catalan separatists appear willing to forfeit the best chance they have had in decades to advance Catalan autonomy. The Sánchez government has supported dialogue with Catalan separatists; appointed many Catalans to prominent cabinet positions, including Meritxell Batet, responsible for managing regional affairs; and agreed to a substantial increase in public spending in Catalonia for 2019. It even consented to talks about amending the Spanish Constitution to expand autonomy for all of Spain’s regions.Those gains could be quickly erased if the Popular Party is returned to power, something that the separatists were apparently aware of when they voted against the budget proposal. The newspaper El País reported that separatist leaders voted “with long faces” because they knew that they were most likely contributing to the rise of a new government that could reimpose direct control of Madrid over Catalonia as the Rajoy government did in 2017.Indeed, chances are that a new right-wing government in Madrid would be even more intolerant of Catalan separatism than Mr. Rajoy was. Since Mr. Rajoy’s departure from office, the Popular Party has hardened its stance on Catalan separatism, in no small measure because of the rise of Vox, a new far-right party that made a splash in regional elections in Andalusia in December, when it won 12 seats in the Andalusian Parliament on a platform that combined anti-immigrant rhetoric with a hard line on the Catalonia crisis. Vox has gone as far as to call for abolishing altogether Spain’s system of regional autonomy and outlawing separatist political parties.Why would the separatists possibly want this outcome? For the simple reason that a viable path to securing Catalan independence remains elusive. Since 2011, both conservative and social democratic governments in Madrid have rejected a state-sanctioned independence referendum for Catalonia. So Catalan separatists are now banking on political victimhood as the best strategy for rebooting the independence project. To do this, they need to depict Catalonia as the victim of Madrid’s brutal oppression in the hopes that this would earn their cause international support.Carles Puigdemont, the president of Catalonia until he fled to Belgium, where he remains today, to escape prosecution from Spanish authorities for having declared Catalonia an independent republic, has been exploiting the violence around the 2017 referendum to demonstrate the lengths that Madrid will go to deny Catalans the right to self-determination. On a recent trip to the United States, Quim Torra, Mr. Puigdemont’s successor, accused the Spanish government of violating civil and political rights in Catalonia and of holding “political prisoners.” At home, Catalan separatists have framed the trial that began this month of the 12 organizers of the illegal referendum on charges of rebellion and sedition as a persecution of Catalan nationalism.But for the victimhood strategy to succeed, the separatists need a better foil in Madrid than Mr. Sánchez and his Socialist government. Rather than dialogue and compromise, the separatists appear to desire intolerance and intransigence — maybe even a dose of violence. In other words, they want a Popular Party government supported by Vox and Ciudadanos, a center-right party from Catalonia that vehemently opposes Catalan independence. Because of the fragmentation of the party system, the results of an election more than a month away are difficult to predict. But given recent polling, it is easy to imagine the Popular Party — with support from Ciudadanos and Vox — being able to oust Mr. Sánchez.The consequences of a coalition government led by the Popular Party and incorporating Vox would extend far beyond the issue of Catalonia. It would be the first time the far right made it into a Spanish government since Franco’s death, and the toll on Spanish democracy would be enormous. It could bring an assault on the hard-won rights of women, immigrants and L.G.B.T. people. It could also unleash a wave of nationalism not seen in Spain since the Franco regime, one that would undermine regional home rule not only in Catalonia, but also in other regions like the Basque Country.Enabling the rise of the far right into government would also be a betrayal of the traditional values of the Catalan nationalist movement. Since the transition to democracy, this movement has placed Catalan autonomy ahead of independence. Its progressive wing, represented by the Republican Left of Catalonia, a political party founded in the 1930s, has a proud history of standing up for the rights of women, workers and sexual minorities. The separatists also need to consider that it is far from clear that a right-wing government would bring their region any closer to independence. In fact, the result of the strategy of victimization in Catalonia could well be to diminish democracy for Spain as a whole.Omar G. Encarnación is a professor of political studies at Bard College and the author of “Democracy without Justice in Spain: The Politics of Forgetting,” among other books.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris BuckleyBEIJING — While alive, Li Rui was a decades-long headache for China’s ruling Communists — a former aide to Mao Zedong who became an obdurate, sharp-tongued critic of the party. And the controversy did not stop in death, even for his funeral.Hundreds of people gathered in Beijing on Wednesday to say goodbye to Mr. Li, four days after his death at 101. But the funeral revealed tensions between the government, which wanted a brisk Communist ceremony, and mourners who celebrated Mr. Li as a renegade — one who, even as he lay dying, railed against the authoritarian policies of Xi Jinping, the party’s leader and China’s president.Mr. Li’s daughter, Li Nanyang, stayed away from the ceremony at Babaoshan cemetery in the capital’s west, where members of China’s political elite are cremated and laid to rest. She said her father had not wanted a stiff, official funeral featuring cookie-cutter eulogies or “red” symbolism that would suggest he had remained devoted to the party.“He wished to be remembered as Li Rui, not as a Communist Party cadre enjoying ministerial-level official protocol,” Ms. Li said by telephone from California, where she lives, before the funeral.In conversations with her, Ms. Li said, her father had objected to the idea of lying in a coffin with the party’s red banner on top, and to any eulogies and obituaries that praised him as a loyal Marxist.“My father’s wish about the party banner clearly was about rejecting the Communist Party,” she said. “The party banner symbolized the party occupying someone’s heart.”But in the end, Mr. Li’s funeral followed party protocol.Mourners who passed by his coffin said it was covered in the red banner of a Chinese Communist. (Foreign journalists were not allowed inside the hall.)Wu Wei, a former official who knew Mr. Li, said that according to his widow and other family members, he had not objected in a will to a funeral along party lines. Therefore, he said, they would not go along with what Ms. Li said were her father’s wishes.“What I want to say now is that Li Rui, a centenarian, has departed, so let him quietly depart,” his widow, Zhang Yuzhen, said in a written message distributed to mourners.Even so, the funeral also became a rallying point for people who embraced his hope for a more democratic China.In a reflection of Mr. Li’s dual life — a former senior official who rebelled against the party he had joined in 1937 — the hundreds of mourners included aged former cadres, often stooped or in wheelchairs; graying sons and daughters of revolutionary veterans; prominent historians; dissidents; and ordinary citizens who came to know Mr. Li through his critical books about Mao.A few paid tribute to Mr. Li by holding up handwritten signs, or by making brief speeches that praised him as a freethinker who had stood up to Mao — opposing the calamitous excesses of the Great Leap Forward — and pressed Mao’s successors to take China in a more liberal direction. Police officers and officials kept watch, and tried to keep foreign reporters from talking to mourners throughout the morning.“He was someone who had the guts to speak up for the people,” said Sheng Lianqi, a retired worker in his 70s, who said he never met Mr. Li but admired his writings.He held up a handwritten sign that read in part: “Li Rui’s name will live in eternity. The ordinary people have sharp eyes and clear minds.”Mr. Li leapt into Mao’s inner circle in the late 1950s, serving as one of the chairman’s secretaries until they had a falling out. Mr. Li was banished from office and suffered decades of imprisonment and persecution.But like many other purged officials, he returned to work after the death of Mao and the end of his frenzied Cultural Revolution. Many officials admired Mr. Li as a reformist who tried to recruit young blood into the party and to redress the injustices of Mao’s era.Even if Chinese leaders came to detest Mr. Li’s constant criticisms, they discreetly paid their respects on Wednesday. Several people who passed by Mr. Li’s coffin said they saw wreathes sent from Mr. Xi, as well as from China’s premier, Li Keqiang, and other senior leaders, both retired and still in office.But the party has mostly kept its distance and doused down talk of Mr. Li since he died on Saturday. State media have been silent about his passing, with none of the obituaries and tributes that usually accompany the death of a prominent official.Many comments about his life and death on the Chinese internet were removed by censors. And, unusually, the party did not issue an official obituary, called a “shengping” in Chinese, before or at the funeral.Party leaders had reason to be cautious. Even around the time of his 101st birthday last year, Mr. Li made sharp-tongued criticisms of the party and of Mr. Xi.Early on, Mr. Li had hoped that Mr. Xi would be a relatively moderate leader, and he was dismayed by the staunch policies Mr. Xi pursued, said Bao Tong, an ousted former official who was friends with Mr. Li.“His ideas became clearer and clearer,” Mr. Bao said of Mr. Li by telephone. “Originally he argued that the party’s approach was wrong, but later he concluded that the whole direction of the country was wrong, not just the party, but the whole nation.”These days, the party restricts criticism of Mao. But Mr. Li seemed determined to have the last word. He donated many of his papers — including notebooks and letters from his decades in the party, and a diary he kept for more than 80 years — to the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, where scholars will eventually be able to study them, said his daughter, Ms. Li.“He said that we had to have a reckoning with Mao, or there would be endless trouble,” Ms. Li said. “Sure enough, that’s the case now.”Albee Zhang contributed research.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian AustenOTTAWA — Another minister in the cabinet of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada quit in protest on Monday over accusations that he and his aides tried to influence a criminal case against a multinational Canadian company accused of bribing the Libyan government.The unexpected resignation, by Jane Philpott, who led the treasury board, inflames a growing political crisis that has already cost Mr. Trudeau his former justice minister and his top aide.“I’ve been considering the events that have shaken the government in recent weeks and after serious reflection, I have concluded that I must resign as a member of cabinet,” said Ms. Philpott, who was also a former health minister and minister of Indigenous affairs.It grieves me to resign from a portfolio where I was at work to deliver an important mandate. I must abide by my core values, my ethical responsibilities, constitutional obligations. There can be a cost to acting on one’s principles, but there is a bigger cost to abandoning them. pic.twitter.com/EwO5dtdgG6Speaking to a Liberal party rally in Toronto on Monday night, Mr. Trudeau thanked Ms. Philpott for her service.“I know that Ms. Philpott has felt this way for some time,” Mr. Trudeau said during a speech, which was occasionally interrupted by hecklers. “While I’m disappointed, I understand her decision.”Mr. Trudeau said that the political controversy “has generated important discussion” and added that “there are more questions to be answered and more to be said in the coming days and weeks.”With a federal election looming seven months away, Mr. Trudeau must now not only salvage his reputation as someone who promised an open approach to politics, but may be in peril of losing control of his position as leader of the Liberal Party, which would end his time as prime minister.On Monday, Andrew Scheer, the Conservative leader, repeated his call for Mr. Trudeau to step down and called on other cabinet ministers to follow Ms. Philpott’s example.In announcing her decision, Ms. Philpott cited accusations that Mr. Trudeau and his aides had exerted improper and excessive pressure on the justice minister and attorney general at the time, Jody Wilson-Raybould, to seek a settlement in the criminal case against the company, SNC-Lavalin.A criminal conviction would have barred the company from bidding on government contracts for a decade, potentially leading to major job losses in Quebec, where it has its headquarters.[You can read more here about the SNC-Lavalin case and how it has entangled Mr. Trudeau.]Ms. Wilson-Raybould resisted the pressure, and quit the cabinet last month. Ms. Philpott was among the few cabinet ministers to publicly side with her.“There can be a cost to acting on one’s principles, but there is a bigger cost to abandoning them,” Ms. Philpott wrote in her resignation letter to Mr. Trudeau on Monday.Privately, several members of his caucus have said Mr. Trudeau has badly fumbled his handling of the controversy. Publicly, though, they have spoken in solidarity with the prime minister.Royce Koop, a political scientist at the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg, said that might now change.“Philpott was really the talent pool of the Trudeau cabinet, she got things done,” he said. “The question now is do we now start to see the beginning of a caucus rebellion? I haven’t heard that anything is happening. But this is going to shift opinion in the caucus.”But Professor Koop said he’s seen nothing to suggest that Ms. Wilson-Raybould was trying to lead a movement to eject Mr. Trudeau as the party leader and, thus, prime minister.Both Ms. Wilson-Raybould and Ms. Philpott, who was a doctor before entering politics in 2015, were recruited by Mr. Trudeau to enter politics in the 2015 election. Neither has developed a strong political machine to support their new careers.Both former ministers worked closely together on some of Mr. Trudeau’s signature achievements, including the legalization of medical marijuana and, before that, right-to-die legislation. Both say they intend to remain in the Liberal caucus.Mr. Trudeau’s troubles began nearly a month ago when The Globe and Mail, citing anonymous sources, said Mr. Trudeau and his aides had improperly pressured Ms. Wilson-Raybould to use a newly created law to work out a settlement for SNC-Lavalin that would have seen it pay a substantial fine to avoid a criminal conviction.Canadian authorities have accused the company of paying 47.7 million Canadian dollars in bribes to officials in Libya to win contracts there, and defrauding the Libyan government and its agencies of 129.8 million Canadian dollars.In January, Ms. Wilson-Raybould was moved by Mr. Trudeau from justice minister and attorney general to veterans affairs minister, which many saw as a demotion and a slight to the one remaining Indigenous member of the cabinet. On Feb. 12, she resigned.Last week in testimony before the House of Commons’ justice committee, Ms. Wilson-Raybould described 10 meetings, 10 conversations and a series of email exchanges in which Mr. Trudeau, his senior aides and others, in her view, improperly pressured her to cut a deal with the company.She testified that while no one broke the law they crossed informal lines in Canada that are supposed to isolate prosecutors from politics by mentioning the potential political consequences for the Liberals of shutting SNC-Lavalin out of government business.Mr. Trudeau has said he disagrees with Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s characterizations of events. Several senior Liberals have said that many others share his view.Gerald Butts, a close friend of Mr. Trudeau’s who quit as his top political aide after the initial news articles about the accusations, is set to testify before a parliamentary committee on Wednesday.Ken Coates, a political historian at the University of Saskatchewan in Saskatoon, said Ms. Philpott’s resignation was the most significant act of cabinet revolt in about 50 years.“To have a minister not directly involved in all this stand up and resign — it’s astounding,” Professor Coates said. “We’re now in a new world.”An earlier version of this article misstated the day Jane Philpott resigned from her position in the prime minister’s cabinet. She quit her post on Monday, not Wednesday.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian AustenOTTAWA — Canada’s former justice minister repeatedly warned the country’s top public servant about possible political fallout if she intervened in a criminal case involving a major Canadian corporation, according to a recording of their conversation released on Friday.Jody Wilson-Raybould, who was also the former attorney general, gave the recording to a parliamentary committee that had been looking into her accusations that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his top aides had improperly pressured her over how to handle the case.She also provided the committee, where she testified last month, with emails, texts and a statement.Her accusations led to a political crisis for Mr. Trudeau that has dominated news coverage in Canada for the last two months and badly tarnished his image as a feminist who had pledged to bring clean ways to politics.[Read: How Justin Trudeau Was Ensnared by Scandal: A Corruption Case and ‘Veiled Threats’]In the firestorm, Ms. Wilson-Raybould resigned from the cabinet — where she had been moved to the post of veterans affairs — as did Jane Philpott, another minister, and Gerald Butts, Mr. Trudeau’s close friend and top political adviser. Michael Wernick, the clerk of the privy council, also resigned his post.Mr. Trudeau has repeatedly denied that anyone strong-armed Ms. Wilson-Raybould, saying the government was concerned that a criminal conviction for the company would put thousands of Canadian jobs at risk.He is now preparing his campaign for re-election in October, and has been trying to divert the country’s attention away from the controversy and toward his achievements and plans for the future. Friday’s release of documents is not likely to help.In her statement, Ms. Wilson-Raybould, a lawyer who was once a regional chief of First Nations on Canada’s west coast and an advocate for Indigenous rights, commented on how the case has been portrayed in the media.“A significant part of the public discourse about this matter has touched on issues of race and gender and in particular there have been undeniable elements of misogyny, most of it aimed at myself,” she wrote.Echoing Mr. Trudeau’s call during the last election for a different approach to politics, Ms. Wilson-Raybould thanked Canadians “who give me hope” and wrote that she looked forward “to acting alongside them in the future — a future where we truly do politics differently.”[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for the Canada Letter newsletter.]In the recording, which is just over 17 minutes long, Mr. Wernick, the clerk of the privy council, told Ms. Wilson-Raybould repeatedly about Mr. Trudeau’s concerns about potential job losses if the company, SNC-Lavalin, was convicted on bribery charges, and then banned from government work.The company has been charged with bribing Libyan officials during the dictatorship of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, and defrauding the Libyan government.Mr. Wernick said Mr. Trudeau did not want to do anything illegal or inappropriate, and asked Ms. Wilson-Raybould why she was unwilling to use a new law that could replace a criminal conviction with a hefty monetary penalty.Ms. Wilson-Raybould warned the clerk about the dangers of the government intervening in the case and issuing orders to prosecutors who are independent of politicians in Canada.“Does he not understand the gravity of what this potentially could mean?” she asked the clerk, referring to Mr. Trudeau. “This is not about saving jobs. This is about interfering with one of our fundamental institutions. This is like breaching a constitutional principle.”While Mr. Wernick is not confrontational in the conversation with the former minister, he is persistent in pushing for a settlement.“It is not a good idea for the prime minister and his attorney general to be at loggerheads,” he says at one point.The recording was made without Mr. Wernick’s knowledge, Ms. Wilson-Raybould told the committee in her statement. This is legal in Canada, but she acknowledged that it was “inappropriate.”She said that because she took the call at her home in Vancouver, British Columbia, she didn’t have access to a staff member to take notes.Asked to comment on Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s submission to the committee, Cameron Ahmad, Mr. Trudeau’s director of communications, said in an email statement Friday night, “We are focused on moving forward as a team on the issues that matter to Canadians and governing in the best interests of the country.”Last week Mr. Trudeau put new processes in place for how the government handles criminal matters and has ordered a review into splitting the attorney general’s job from that of the justice minister.But that has not satisfied the opposition Conservative party, which has been trying to keep the controversy alive.Conservatives have demanded that the justice committee call Ms. Wilson-Raybould back for more testimony, but the committee, dominated by Mr. Trudeau’s Liberal party, has refused. The Conservative leader, Andrew Scheer, has frequently accused Mr. Trudeau of a cover-up.Mr. Trudeau has been careful not to criticize Ms. Wilson-Raybould or Ms. Philpott, and the two ministers remain as Liberal members of Parliament.But over the last week, other Liberal caucus members and cabinet ministers have not been so circumspect when it comes to their former colleagues.Canadians vote for their local members of Parliament, not the political parties or the prime minister. As a result, the political turmoil Ms. Wilson-Raybould triggered could affect their colleagues’ chances of re-election in this October’s federal election.The criticisms became more widespread last week after Ms. Philpott told Maclean’s magazine that “there’s much more to the story that needs to be told,” but that it wasn’t coming out because “there’s been an attempt to shut down the story” by Mr. Trudeau and his aides.But in his statement Friday night, Mr. Ahmad said, “All the facts are on the table now, and everyone involved has shared their perspective, including the prime minister.”Some Liberal members of Parliament now say they will push to expel Ms. Wilson-Raybould and Ms. Philpott at a caucus meeting scheduled for Wednesday.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Hannah BeechBANGKOK — Pauline Ngarmpring is running for prime minister of Thailand, one of around 70 candidates for the job. She will not win.One reason is that she was born a he.But a more fundamental explanation is that Thailand’s elections, scheduled for Sunday, were circumscribed even before campaigning began. For nearly five years since a military coup, Thailand has been ruled by a junta that has suppressed dissent, targeted political parties and, now, orchestrated an election that will give voters only partial franchise.That hasn’t stopped around 80 parties from running. Their aims are eclectic. Ms. Pauline’s party wants to represent not only transgender individuals like herself, but any Thai whose human rights have been compromised.“People think of Thailand as a party place, so happy and nice for holiday, but we have a lot of problems with human rights that need to be solved with better government,” Ms. Pauline said in an interview.Another major party, Bhumjaithai, which came in third in the last elections, has tied the nation’s future to the legal cultivation of marijuana. Its leader, Anutin Charnvirakul, says that Thailand’s soil is perfect for growing cannabis and that small-scale farming could bring each household an extra $13,000 a year — if people don’t hoard too much for their own recreational use.There is a political party for defenders of Buddhism, and another with 15 candidates who all legally changed their names to those of the Shinawatra siblings, two popular former prime ministers whose governments were unseated by military coups.Yet these diverse platforms and colorful candidates camouflage a darker truth: After years of delay by the junta, Thailand may at last be going through the rituals of democracy, but the elections are taking place in a much-diminished political landscape.“Thailand is moving into a custodial democracy under long-term military supervision,” said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, a political scientist at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. “Anti-junta forces are likely to win the vote in the lower house, but because the Constitution is so stacked in the military’s favor, a junta-led coalition government is likely.”Even pro-military Thais agree that Pheu Thai, a populist party affiliated with the Shinawatra family, will be the top vote-getter on Sunday, as were its sister parties in every previous election this century. But the junta’s Constitution ensures that the Senate is entirely appointed, and the prime minister does not need to be a sitting member of Parliament.Given the constitutional limits, it is improbable that Pheu Thai will be able to form a government.In addition, several other parties and their executives have court cases hanging over them that, after the election, could result in the dissolution of parties or jail time for their leaders.“Nothing about this upcoming election is free and fair,” said Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, the leader of the Future Forward Party, a new youth-focused party that has enjoyed a groundswell of online support in a country with some of the most active users of social media in the world.In recent elections, only about one-third of Thais between the ages of 18 and 25 voted. But social media campaigns have energized the demographic, and more than 10 percent of the electorate is young.Mr. Thanathorn, who has enjoyed strong crowd support during campaign stops, is facing computer crimes charges over a Facebook Live video in which, prosecutors say, he spread fake news. Human rights groups say the charges, which also have been made against Future Forward’s deputy leader and could involve prison time, have been trumped up in order to kneecap the party.A decision in Mr. Thanathorn’s case could be made in the coming week.Thailand has had a fractious relationship with democracy since absolute monarchy was outlawed nearly nine decades ago. The nation’s generals have staged more than a dozen successful coups, and the country has churned through 20 constitutions. The average prime minister’s tenure is less than three years.For years, the nation has been bifurcated between elite urbanites, and debt-ridden farmers and factory workers, who have seen Thailand’s wealth gap grow under junta rule. A survey by Credit Suisse found that Thailand is the most unequal society on earth, beating out Russia and India, with 1 percent of the population controlling more than 65 percent of the wealth.“In the past in Thailand, it has always been the rich who use their capital to take the profits from poor farmers, who accumulate debt to survive,” said Mr. Anutin of the Bhumjaithai Party, which is campaigning on agricultural reform, including cannabis production. “This cannot continue.”An earlier incarnation of Pheu Thai was one of the first parties to heavily court the nation’s rice growers and working class, offering health care subsidies and agricultural incentives. The result was landslides in every election since 2001, when Thaksin Shinawatra, a billionaire telecoms entrepreneur from the north, swept to victory and discomfited the establishment in Bangkok.Mr. Thaksin was ousted in a coup in 2006 and has since been convicted in absentia of corruption-linked crimes, as has his sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, another former prime minister, whose government was toppled in the 2014 coup. Both remain popular, even from self-imposed exile.Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, the head of the National Council for Peace and Order, as the junta is known, has been nominated to stay in his current job by a military-affiliated political party.Mr. Prayuth is openly distrustful of some of the trappings of democracy. He has threatened, perhaps jokingly, to shoot journalists whose coverage he dislikes. Under junta rule, dissidents have been sent to detention camps for attitude adjustment. Cybercrime and sedition legislation has been used to target thousands of people who have spoken out against the junta and its limits on freedom of assembly and speech.In the weeks before the election, Mr. Prayuth, who writes his own songs and likes to perform them, has tried to show off a gentler mien. His party has released gauzy photos of the prime minister on social media, one with his hands cupping his smiling face, accompanied by a sentiment attributed to Mr. Prayuth: “Sometimes I want to look handsome.”Even if Pheu Thai and other Shinawatra-linked parties mimic history and do well in Sunday’s election — one such party was dissolved this month by the Constitutional Court, in a controversy that involved the Thai king’s sister’s brief candidacy for prime minister — the bloc of 250 senators appointed by the military is likely to jettison their chances of leading the country.What may follow, instead, is a weak, fractious coalition. The Democrat Party, a long-established force that gave tacit support to the last coup, is angling for a major role in any coalition. It is likely to be among the top vote-getters on Sunday, winning support in its traditional urban and southern power bases.But waiting in the wings, and even on the ballots, is the military. If anti-junta forces coalesce again, no one is discounting another putsch.“Every time there’s a coup d’état, the country falls behind,” Mr. Thanathorn said. “This vicious cycle must be stopped.”Muktita Suhartono contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byMadrid DispatchBy Patrick KingsleyMADRID — Step into Bar Oliva, a cafe in a southern suburb of Madrid, and you step back 44 years.Gen. Francisco Franco, the far-right dictator, died in 1975, but his spirit lives on at the bar, where portraits of him hang from the walls, his bust stands behind the counter, his face peers from the labels of wine bottles and a map of his victorious campaign during the Spanish Civil War droops above a table.“Franco presente!” a sign beside the door declares. “Franco is here.”And so are the far right.The flag of a disbanded far-right party is draped above the television. Several customers say they’ll vote in the coming general election for Vox, a xenophobic party that is likely to become the first far-right group in four decades to enter the Spanish Parliament.And the bar is one of 12 marked on a map of fascist-friendly establishments in Spain that is being circulated among Vox supporters.“People come from across Spain to see this place,” the owner said on a recent Saturday night. “They come to the Valley of the Fallen,” the memorial west of Madrid where Franco was buried, he said.“And then they come to me,” added the owner, Xianwei Chen.Mr. Chen, as his name might suggest, is something of a surprise. The owner of a bar festooned with Spanish flags and frequented by xenophobes is, in fact, Chinese. And this is an irony not lost on his regulars.“We used to joke to him,” said Jesús López, a 51-year-old truck driver. “If Franco was still alive, he would kill you.”Nevertheless, Mr. Chen has done his best to ready himself for a Franquist resurrection.He has played host to Franco’s descendants at the bar; a group photograph of the meeting hangs on the wall opposite the civil war map. Until his neighbors complained, he flew the flag of Franco-era Spain from his apartment balcony, which overlooks the cafe’s southern front.His 4-year-old son, meanwhile, is named Franco-Xi.Though Franco banned all independent political parties and trade unions, censored all newspapers and oversaw the deaths of hundreds of thousands of captured opponents after his coup in 1936, Mr. Chen finds much to admire in the former dictator.“People say that in Franco’s time, people had no freedom — but it was a different time,” said Mr. Chen, 41, by way of breezy explanation. “Look, thanks to Franco, Spain was not involved in the Second World War. Thanks to Franco, Spain has social security. And he built the reservoirs, without any other country’s help.”Mr. Chen’s path to Francophilia has been an unlikely one. Born in China, he spent more than half his life in Qingtian, a coastal county near Shanghai that has sent hundreds of thousands of emigrants to Italy and Spain.In 1999, Mr. Chen joined them, beginning work at a Spanish plastics manufacturer run by a cousin. Gradually he moved into the hospitality business and, in 2010, bought Bar Oliva.To start with, he ran it as a regular bar. But after learning more about Franco, and liking what he learned, Mr. Chen decided in 2013 to turn the place into a monument to him. His goal was, in part, to rehabilitate the Caudillo’s reputation.“People talk a lot about Franco,” Mr. Chen said, “but they don’t know him.”To Franco’s critics, Mr. Chen is right — but not for the reasons he intended.Many Spaniards have yet to acknowledge Franco’s brutality properly, said Antonio Maestre, a prominent leftist journalist. Bar Oliva, positioned on a major crossroads and accepted as part of the fabric of the local community, is a symptom of that failure.In a country where Franco’s name has been removed from many street signs, and his statue pulled from most public spaces, Bar Oliva can be framed as an oddity.But it is equally emblematic of a Spain in which Franquist politicians were allowed to retain prominent roles in public life, and Franco-era crimes remain not only unpunished but unacknowledged.Despite efforts to disinter Franco’s body, his grave continues to be a site of pilgrimage, while thousands of his victims remain in unmarked mass graves.The bar’s “mere existence,” said Mr. Maestre, highlights the “total acceptance of this culture of exaltation of the dictatorship” within contemporary Spanish society.The revulsion of a family of leftists who walked into the bar by mistake suggests this acceptance is not universal, though.“It’s the first time I’ve come here, and it’s the last time I’ll come here,” said Valeria Martínez, a gardener sharing some Spanish ham with her daughter and her daughter’s boyfriend. “We’re just staying for the ham.”But the attendance of 12 uniformed police officers at the bar that night, unconcerned by what their presence suggested about their political preferences, seemed to underscore Mr. Maestre’s wider point.The officers, who left their cars parked illegally outside, came in and out of the bar all evening, seemingly using it as a kind of common room. The 23 police and army caps hanging above the counter — all donated to Mr. Chen by serving officers, he said — showed that their attendance was no aberration.And in general, business seems to be up, Mr. Chen said. The rise of Vox, and the Catalan secession crisis, has drawn more customers to his pub, he reckoned.“A lot of people who had this nationalist feeling inside them have lost their fear,” he said. “They’re not scared of expressing themselves.”Follow Patrick Kingsley on Twitter: @PatrickKingsley.José Bautista contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Frances Robles, Michael Forsythe and Alexandra StevensonJUPITER, Fla. — The Republican National Committee promised an “evening reception with Donald J. Trump” last March at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Fla.A contribution of $2,700 toward the president’s re-election would get you in the door. Two seats for dinner were on offer for $25,000. And there was a third option: for $50,000, dinner for two and a photo with Mr. Trump.Cindy Yang was determined to get the photo.But there was a hurdle. The invitation limited campaign contributions to $5,400 per person, so Ms. Yang, a Chinese immigrant who had set up a string of day spas in Florida and was active in groups backed by the Chinese government and Communist Party, needed others to chip in.Over the weeks leading up to the event, at least nine people in Ms. Yang’s orbit, some of them with modest incomes, made donations at exactly $5,400. She ended up at the dinner.Ms. Yang was little known outside southern Florida until her name became associated with the arrest last month of Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, in a prostitution sting at a Jupiter massage parlor. The Miami Herald first reported that she had previously owned that parlor.Though she was not charged or implicated in the sting, her other business efforts have since come under public scrutiny. One promised rich Chinese clients access to the social scene around Mr. Trump — and was promoted online with pictures of cabinet members, the Trump family and even the president himself.One of the $5,400 political donations came from a 25-year-old woman who gives facials at a beauty school, in a strip mall in nearby Palm Beach Gardens that is owned by Ms. Yang’s family. Another $5,400 came from a woman who says she worked as a receptionist at a massage parlor owned by Ms. Yang’s husband. A third gift of $5,400 came from an associate of Ms. Yang’s who had been charged in 2014 after a prostitution sting with practicing health care without a license, police records show.The receptionist, Bingbing Peranio, listed as a “manager” on her disclosure, spoke with a reporter about her relationship with Ms. Yang. She described herself as a big fan of Mr. Trump’s and said Ms. Yang, a registered Republican, was seen as a leader among Asian-American Republicans in Florida.Ms. Peranio said Ms. Yang had come to the spa where she worked at the time and helped fill out the check toward the president’s campaign. “I can’t say she was pushing me or not pushing me, but I worked there then,” she said, speaking at her home in Jupiter. “I was working there. I didn’t say no.”Asked if Ms. Yang had reimbursed her for the $5,400, Ms. Peranio said, “I do not want to answer that question.” Reimbursing someone for a political contribution or contributing in the name of another person is illegal.The other contributors declined to be interviewed or did not respond to requests for comment.It is rare for workers in the massage and spa business to support candidates for office at such high-dollar levels, according to an analysis of Federal Election Commission records. In 2017 and 2018, of the nearly 65,000 donations made by people listed as massage therapists on F.E.C. disclosures, only two gave the maximum $5,400, including one of the Trump donors connected to Ms. Yang.Ms. Yang, contacted by The New York Times, declined to discuss the contributions or her attendance at the Mar-a-Lago event. Her lawyer, Evan W. Turk, did not respond to questions about the donations but said in a statement to the media on Thursday that “the evidence indicates that our client has been falsely accused,” without providing further detail.A spokesman for the Republican National Committee denied “any wrongdoing on behalf of the R.N.C. or Trump campaign.”“We only accept donations in accordance with the law,” the spokesman said in a statement. “If we do see any evidence of illegal contributions, we report it to the proper authorities. If we were notified by the authorities that a donation were illegal, we would return the money.”In addition to the spa workers, the federal records show three relatives of Ms. Yang — including her husband and her mother — and two business associates who donated $5,400. In total, the donations from Ms. Yang and the others came to at least $54,000.Ms. Yang got her photo with the president, which she received in the mail signed by Mr. Trump in silver ink. She posted it to Facebook on March 22 and to her company’s website, which has since been taken down.Friends and associates of Ms. Yang — who left China’s frigid northeast two decades ago and has also gone by Yang Li and Yang Lijuan — said she had spent a lifetime chasing opportunities.Ms. Yang, 45, conducted interviews with businesspeople for a Chinese-language channel in Silicon Valley. She dealt antiques and promoted artists. She sold medical equipment. She founded a club that promotes a figure-hugging Chinese silk dress. And she built the chain of massage parlors and day spas in Florida, including the Orchids of Asia Day Spa & Massage, where Mr. Kraft and several other wealthy men were accused of soliciting sex after it changed ownership. Mr. Kraft has pleaded not guilty.“When we talked about a situation, she was able to see a business opportunity where we couldn’t,” said Lu Fang, who has known Ms. Yang for more than a decade and was a member of the dress club but was not among the Trump donors. “She knows how to seize an opportunity, and I still admire her.”Ms. Yang discovered politics in 2015, and she quickly became a fund-raiser for Republican candidates and causes, embracing the lifestyle it demanded, too, according to Ms. Lu and two other acquaintances of Ms. Yang who spoke on the condition of anonymity.She attended social events at firing ranges and extolled the virtues of the Second Amendment, according to photographs posted to her Chinese-language WeChat account. “The biggest advantage of learning to use a gun is to make yourself stronger and feel strong support,” she wrote on the social media site.She stumped for a stream of politicians and posed for pictures with Republican personalities, including Sarah Palin. In 2015, she was photographed with a small group holding a banner at the launch of Jeb Bush’s presidential campaign. She also helped build a political organization and fund-raising committee, the National Association of Asian American Republicans.The election of Mr. Trump brought new opportunities as the line between business and politics became especially blurred.Ms. Yang, who attended the inauguration, started a company — GY US Investments — that promised Chinese businesspeople access to American politicians, including Mr. Trump. Clients were offered entry to events, including White House visits, “VIP activities at Mar-a-Lago” and Warren Buffett’s annual meeting of Berkshire Hathaway shareholders.Sun Ye, an actress in Beijing, was among those who appeared in photographs on Ms. Yang’s website. Ms. Sun said she wanted to travel to the United States to burnish her image in China and abroad. She said she took a deluxe tour last year that included visits to Harvard, the Nasdaq marketplace and the White House. For part of the trip, she said, she stayed with Ms. Yang.The highlight, she said, was to be in a photo with the president at a New Year’s party at Mar-a-Lago, one of the events promoted on Ms. Yang’s website.Mr. Trump, however, skipped the party and stayed in Washington because of a government shutdown. Ms. Sun settled for a photo with his son Donald Jr.“I wanted to see the president of the United States, and although I didn’t meet him, I met his family,” Ms. Sun said in an interview in Beijing. “It made me feel like I achieved my dream.”In the past few years, Ms. Yang also began forging ties with organizations connected to the Chinese Communist Party and the government in Beijing.In 2016, she joined the Florida Association for China Unification, part of a global network of organizations aimed at promoting the return of Taiwan to mainland control, a connection first reported by Mother Jones. Such groups fall under the oversight of the Chinese Communist Party’s United Front Work Department, which seeks to enlist the vast ethnic Chinese diaspora to promote Beijing’s policies.Li Qiangmin, the Chinese consul general in Houston, attended the Florida group’s opening ceremony, timed just before Taiwan’s president made a stopover in Miami. Ms. Yang served as a vice president of the association, according to a former officer in the group who asked to remain anonymous.The group’s founding president, Qu Xianqin, sat next to the consul general and seems to be active in politics. She was at Jeb Bush’s campaign launch in 2015 as well, and appeared on a list of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders endorsing President Barack Obama’s re-election in 2012.Ms. Yang also joined the Florida branch of the China Association for Science and Technology, a nongovernmental organization affiliated with China’s Ministry of Science and Technology, according to James Mulvenon, an expert on China’s intelligence capabilities.“It is an organization explicitly designed to facilitate cooperation with the Chinese government,” Mr. Mulvenon said.Ms. Yang’s mother, Zhang Guiying, told The Herald, which first reported Ms. Yang’s appearances at Mar-a-Lago, that there was a simple explanation for her daughter’s frenzy of political activity: “She likes to show off.” Reached outside her home in Wellington, Fla., Ms. Zhang declined to comment to The Times.It is unclear how much financial success Ms. Yang’s endeavors have yielded. Her art-promotion company, Fufu International, which is listed under her mother’s name, filed for bankruptcy last year with more than $150,000 in credit card debt.On Wednesday, typed notes were taped to the doors of her beauty school asking anyone to refrain from contacting her family and friends. One of the donors to Mr. Trump’s re-election effort with connections to Ms. Yang was seated at the reception desk at a nail salon next door to the beauty school.The contribution from the woman was among the 231 donations in 2017 and 2018 that listed the word “facial” in the occupation description for the F.E.C. And it was the only one at the maximum $5,400.“Since I am friends with Cindy, you need to contact that person,” said the woman, Katrina Eggertsson, referring to Mr. Turk, the lawyer who signed the note on the doors.Gong Haizhen, the friend who was arrested in 2014, confirmed by phone that she had made the $5,400 donation but then hung up. (Court records show the charge against her was dismissed after she participated in an intervention program.)Another of the donors, a massage therapist named Yang Yi, lives north of Miami and is linked to a home in a gated community that is listed in public records as belonging to Cindy Yang. It is unclear if they are related.In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Turk said his client’s reputation had been destroyed. “Cindy Yang seems to be another casualty, as a supporter of our president,” he said.It is a sentiment echoed by Ms. Lu, her friend of a decade, who wondered why Ms. Yang had involved herself in politics.“She’s facing a lot of pressure,” she said. “Things can’t be easy for her. Perhaps it’s fate.”Frances Robles reported from Florida, Michael Forsythe from New York and Alexandra Stevenson from Beijing. Michael LaForgia contributed reporting from New York. Research was contributed by Elsie Chen, Cao Li, Jack Begg and Grace Ashford.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________• In a daylong hearing before the House Oversight and Reform Committee, Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former personal lawyer, accused Mr. Trump of an expansive pattern of lies and criminality. He offered a damning portrayal of life inside the president’s orbit — where, he said, advisers sacrifice integrity for proximity to power.• Accusations by Mr. Cohen, such as the president’s alleged knowledge of the hacked Democratic emails released by WikiLeaks, could create new legal issues for Mr. Trump. His testimony also revived questions about whether Mr. Trump broke the law by failing to disclose that he had footed the bill for a hush payment to a pornographic film actress.• The searing portrait that Mr. Cohen delivered — one of a lying, cheating, racist president who used money and threats to conceal immoral and illegal behavior — will test both parties as they hurtle toward a political confrontation over the fate of the Trump presidency.• Mr. Cohen’s testimony sealed the breakup of a 10-year relationship with Mr. Trump, one that associates described as a mix of lawyer and client, father and son, and the blind loyalty of henchman to crime boss.• Far away from Capitol Hill, Mr. Trump was in Hanoi, Vietnam, meeting with the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un for the second time. The talks ended early, with no agreement on even the first steps toward denuclearizing the North. Asked about Mr. Cohen’s testimony, Mr. Trump said, “He lied a lot.”• Prosecutors have revised their account of how Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, lied about his contacts with a business associate whom they have linked to Russian intelligence services.• The attorney general for the District of Columbia has subpoenaed documents from Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee. He is the latest official to delve into the committee’s fund-raising and spending, and he appears to be looking for possible evidence of self-dealing.• The House voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers — including those at gun shows and on the internet — in the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in over two decades. Here’s more about the vote, and a look at what the next steps could be.• More than 100 House Democrats rallied around a “Medicare for all” bill that would eliminate most private health insurance. The proposal, which was light on details, highlighted a split within the party.• The North Carolina political operative who oversaw a fraud-ridden voter-turnout effort in the state’s Ninth Congressional District on behalf of a Republican was arrested on Wednesday over his work in a previous election.• Beto O’Rourke says he has “made a decision” about his political future. What is it? He’ll tell you “soon.”• Gavin Newsom, the governor of California, stopped by The Times to talk to the Editorial Board. Our California Today newsletter has the details, including his thoughts on the future of his state and working with other West Coast governors. (California residents, and anyone else interested, can sign up for that newsletter here.)_____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesA prominent Vietnamese historian who criticized his government for not doing more to challenge Beijing’s territorial claims in the South China Sea has been ousted from Vietnam’s ruling Communist Party over comments he made on Facebook.The political purge of Tran Duc Anh Son, an expert on Vietnam’s claims in the South China Sea, is a rare window into how the party handles dissent among its rank-and-file members. It may also underline the sensitivities around Vietnam’s handling of its relationship with China, its largest trading partner and former imperial occupier.Vietnam’s state-run news media reported last week that Dr. Son, who is in his early 50s and worked for years at a state-run research institute in the central city of Danang, was expelled for posting false information and violating a code that governs party members’ behavior.“I knew this day would come,” Dr. Son said in an interview over a messaging service. He closed his Facebook account this week, saying he needed more time to work on book projects and transition to a new job as the director of a publishing house.Dr. Son said the Facebook comment that got him in the most trouble was a short question he posed last September under a cartoon that obliquely criticized the government.A character in the cartoon said: “Seventy-three years ago they corralled people to a rally to listen to the Declaration of Independence. Seventy-three years later they forbid people to gather to celebrate Independence Day.”That was an apparent reference to a famous 1945 speech by Ho Chi Minh in which the future Vietnamese president declared his country’s independence from France, and an oblique criticism of the Communist Party’s current leaders, who have escalated repression of political dissidents.Dr. Son said the question he wrote underneath the cartoon — “Is this true?” — prompted a monthslong investigation by Danang’s Communist Party Central Committee.He said he was also investigated for a Facebook comment — “How have things become this bad?” — that he left under a post featuring two articles in the state-run news media about the country’s education minister.Even though many Vietnamese have low opinions of the Communist Party, its members generally avoid criticizing it for fear of repercussions that would affect their livelihoods, said Mai Thanh Son, a senior researcher at the state-affiliated Institute of Social Sciences in central Vietnam.“The expulsion of Tran Duc Anh Son is a thoughtless decision,” he said. “It’s like releasing a tiger into the forest, and it contributes to stripping away the cowardly face of the ruling apparatus that the party represents.”In January, a cybersecurity law took effect in Vietnam that requires technology companies with users there to set up offices and store data in the country, and disclose user data to the authorities without a court order. Human rights advocates say Vietnam’s new cybersecurity law was meant to let the government better surveil its critics on Facebook, the country’s most popular social media platform.Facebook declined to comment on the record about Dr. Son’s account.The Foreign Ministry did not respond to emailed questions about Dr. Son’s expulsion from the party, including whether his criticism of Vietnam’s South China Sea policies had played a role.Vietnam has clashed repeatedly at sea with China, which claims most of the waterway as its own. Notably, in 2014 a state-owned Chinese oil company towed an oil rig to waters near Danang, provoking a tense maritime standoff and anti-Chinese riots at several Vietnamese industrial parks. The Communist Party likely fears a repeat of such anti-China-fueled Vietnamese nationalism, partly because some critics question why the government does not take a harder line against Beijing.Chinese officials and scholars seek to justify Beijing’s claim to sovereignty over South China Sea waters that encircle the disputed Paracel and Spratly archipelagos by citing maps and other evidence from the 1940s and ’50s.But Dr. Son and other Vietnamese historians argue that the Nguyen dynasty, which ruled present-day Vietnam from 1802 to 1945, wielded clear administrative control over the Paracels, decades before imperial or post-revolutionary China showed any interest in them.Dr. Son is a former director of a fine arts museum in Hue, Vietnam’s imperial capital, and a specialist in Nguyen-era porcelain. He developed an interest in Vietnam’s territorial claims as a student poking around archives of old maps and documents.In 2009, officials in Danang asked him to pursue his research on Vietnam’s maritime claims on the government’s behalf. He subsequently spent years traveling the world in search of material, including as a Fulbright scholar at Yale University.Dr. Son has said the historical evidence of Vietnam’s maritime claims is so irrefutable that the government should mount a legal challenge to China’s activities in waters around some of the sea’s disputed islands, as the Philippines successfully did in a case that ended in 2016.“I’m always against the Chinese,” he told The New York Times during an interview in 2017. But he said at the time that Vietnam’s top leaders were “slaves” to Beijing who preferred to keep the old maps and other documents hidden.“They always say to me, ‘Mr. Son, please keep calm,’” he said. “‘Don’t talk badly about China.’”The city of Danang, where Dr. Son lives and works, once had a reputation for its powerful, family-based networks that were willing to ignore dictates from the central government, said Bill Hayton, an author of books about Vietnam and the South China Sea and an associate fellow at Chatham House, a research institute based in London.But Mr. Hayton noted that Vietnam’s current leadership, led by the Communist Party’s general secretary, Nguyen Phu Trong, has lately disciplined some key Danang political figures, including firing Nguyen Xuan Anh, the head of the city’s Communist Party Central Committee.Even though Danang officials presumably supported and financed Dr. Son’s research, he added, “the current Vietnamese leadership does not want to rock the boat with Beijing and seems determined to keep a lid on criticism of China’s actions in the South China Sea.”Chau Doan contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWhere is the Republican — or Democrat — willing to break with the base?By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistIn 1992, recording artist Lisa Williamson, better known as Sister Souljah, opined, “If black people kill black people every day, why not have a week and kill white people?” She also said, “If there are any good white people, I haven’t met them.”Sensing a political opportunity, Bill Clinton went before Jesse Jackson’s Rainbow Coalition to rebuke Williamson. “If you took the words ‘white’ and ‘black,’ and you reversed them,” the Arkansas governor said, “you might think David Duke was giving that speech.”Jackson was furious. But Americans were reassured that Clinton really was a new kind of Democrat, not in thrall to the party’s left wing. He was elected president later that year.American politics could use another Sister Souljah moment. Two, in fact.The obvious need is among Republicans. In the last week, Donald Trump has renewed his campaign of insult against John McCain, proving that the lowest place on earth isn’t the Mariana Trench — it’s the president’s soul. Yet with the notable exception of Mitt Romney, no Republican of national stature has done much more than clear his throat by way of objection, as if the president were no worse than a bumptious uncle passing gas at a Thanksgiving table.It won’t do. What Trump said wasn’t rude. It was grotesque. It didn’t just besmirch the memory of the honored dead. It assaulted the feelings of the grieving living. It didn’t just transgress bounds of ordinary decency. It blew a hole (another one) in our already shattered expectations of presidential behavior. It showed that Trump isn’t merely unsuited to leadership. He’s unfitted for manhood.This would be the moment for a rising Republican leader — Nikki Haley comes to mind — to say, in clear and categorical terms, that is not us. She could give a speech in Sedona, Ariz., noting how John McCain’s values represented the Republican Party at its best: courage and freedom; faith and forgiveness; individualism and engagement.Such a Sister Souljah moment won’t derail Trump’s renomination. It may even harm the immediate political viability of whoever does the denouncing. But it will send a signal, essential for the party’s long-term health, that a future Republican president will restore honor and dignity to the White House.Democrats, too, desperately need such a moment if they are serious about winning the election next year.John Hickenlooper had his chance earlier this month on “Morning Joe” to describe himself, based on his business record, as a “proud capitalist.” He flubbed it. Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker had a chance to repudiate Representative Ilhan Omar’s anti-Semitism forcefully and without equivocation, just as Nancy Pelosi did. They flubbed it. Kamala Harris had a chance to break out beyond her deep-blue base by opposing the Green New Deal in the name of fiscal responsibility. She flubbed it. Kirsten Gillibrand could have embraced her centrist record as a Blue Dog Democrat rather than run away from it. She’s flubbed it. Beto O’Rourke, Julian Castro and Pete Buttigieg could have bucked the charge that Democrats are becoming an anti-Israel party by showing up at next week’s Aipac conference. They’ve flubbed it.There’s still time. Trump’s executive order Thursday on campus free speech could provide another opportunity for a Democrat to break with progressive orthodoxy.Step 1: Criticize the order as an example of federal government overreach to which conservatives usually object. Step 2: Acknowledge that there is a serious problem on the left when it comes to speech, and that protecting the speech rights of all Americans is an irreducible and non-negotiable principle of liberalism. Step 3: Pledge that as president you will restore America’s moral leadership when it comes to defending press freedom, ideological diversity and individual conscience.How about it, Joe Biden?The chances of this happening seem slim. And the blowback a candidate would face from the progressive social-media furies would be great.But the point of a Sister Souljah moment isn’t to ingratiate a candidate to the party base. It’s to demonstrate independence and nerve. And furnish evidence that the candidate is of the center, not the fringe. And that he or she can appeal beyond the Democratic base to Americans who think capitalism is mainly good, anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism are profoundly bad, and the intellectual commissars of the woke left are intolerant bores.Donald Trump plans to win re-election on the strength of a fanatically devoted base, a prosperous economy, a Mueller report that finds no smoking gun and a Democratic Party that increasingly seems to find nothing wrong with the word “socialism.” It’s not a bad theory of the race, especially if there isn’t a Democrat willing to stand up and prove him wrong.As for the rest of the Republican Party, they believe they can squeak to re-election with a president who extols scoundrels, defames heroes, lies without compunction, holds to no higher principle than his personal gratification and thinks he can always get away with it, because he always does.Is there no Republican willing to stand up to all this, lest Trump be proven right?The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Jonathan MartinThe conclusion by the special counsel that President Trump did not conspire with Russia all but assures that Mr. Trump’s political fate will be determined at the ballot box next year — intensifying pressure on Democrats to settle on a candidate and a policy agenda that offers them the best chance to defeat the president.With House Democrats now far less likely to impeach Mr. Trump, and Senate Republicans certain to resist removing him if they did, the 2020 race will revolve more around his performance in office than how he won in the first place.That may disappoint some Democrats, who believe that the Russian interference on Mr. Trump’s behalf in the 2016 race makes his presidency illegitimate. But it offers the party a chance to oust him through democratic means that would be harder to dispute, rather than the divisive tactic of impeachment.So far, the response of most of the candidates to the Mueller report has been to demand that Attorney General William P. Barr release the document in full.  But some top Democrats are urging them to move past the report and instead focus on the promises they say he has failed to keep, and highlight their differences with the president on issues like immigration, tax policy and health care.“Democrats should not focus too much on Mueller,” Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago said. Pointing to signs in the market that the economy is softening, he added, “The flashing yellow light in front of this president is the bond market and the prospect of a recession.”The 2020 hopefuls may not need much convincing. On the campaign trail, few of the top-tier Democratic candidates spend much time inveighing about Mr. Trump’s links to Russia.“I hope this motivates all of us to stay focused on the issues that really impact our lives in the everyday,” Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., said in an interview on MSNBC on Sunday, adding that “part of how we lost our way in 2016 was it was much too much about him and it left a lot of people back home saying, ‘O.K., but nobody’s talking about me.’”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]But many of the presidential candidates had sidestepped questions about impeachment by pointing to the Mueller inquiry and the need to wait for its results. And that stalling tactic is no longer an option.If they now reject impeachment, that could alienate some in their activist base who are outraged by Mr. Trump’s policies and his deeply polarizing behavior. But to continue to push for a series of inquiries could irritate general election voters who loathe Washington dysfunction.Republicans moved swiftly on Sunday to portray Democrats as unrelenting Javerts hunting their Jean Valjean, a message that is likely to become central to Mr. Trump’s efforts to further solidify his base over the 19 months leading to the election.“Now Democrats are saying the special counsel’s investigation wasn’t enough and that they must continue their baseless fishing expeditions in Congress,” said Steve Guest, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee.[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 campaign.]The good news for the Democratic contenders is that most of the party’s voters have not made impeachment a litmus test: Even after Mr. Mueller delivered the report to Mr. Barr on Friday, few activists confronted the candidates at weekend appearances with questions about Russia.With Democrats winning back a foothold of power by capturing the House last year, enthusiasm for impeaching Mr. Trump has ebbed. A recent CNN survey found that 36 percent of Americans support impeaching and removing the president from office, with Democratic support falling to 68 percent from 80 percent in the months since the midterm elections.What has been top of mind for the party’s rank and file is finding a candidate who can defeat Mr. Trump. And the perception of viability will become only more of a coveted attribute now that the president heads into his re-election campaign with poor approval ratings but cleared of colluding with a foreign adversary, an allegation that had clouded his administration for almost two years.“I think most Democrats believed yesterday and they do today that Trump will be on the ballot and that he will be formidable,” said David Axelrod, the Democratic strategist.Democratic strategists were not completely disappointed to see the Mueller inquiry come to an end, even if it denied them a political weapon. They now hope liberal activists, and lawmakers, will offer party leaders the latitude to pivot to a more broadly appealing message that can win over some of the voters who only reluctantly supported Mr. Trump in 2016.“Congress should absolutely fulfill its oversight role by investigating the president’s wrongdoing, but we also have to prosecute the economic case against him,” said Stephanie Cutter, a top aide in former President Barack Obama’s re-election. “Middle-class people are paying more in taxes today because of Trump’s tax bill, and lost jobs because of an egotistical trade war. He doubled our debt, and wasted money on a wall. America is not greater today than it was when he took office. We need to tell that story, too.”Democratic officials believe there is an obvious model: the sort of kitchen table campaigns that brought the party so much success in last year’s midterm elections.“We’ve got to run campaigns on health care and taxes and beat Trump on the issues,” said Anne Caprara, who steered Gov. J. B. Pritzker of Illinois to victory last year.Ms. Caprara said that what helped Mr. Trump in 2016 was the perception that he was an outsider who would disrupt the status quo in a self-dealing capital and revive manufacturing in the Midwest.“Well, he is a typical politician: He didn’t drain the swamp, and he didn’t bring back the jobs,” she said.Mr. Trump may enjoy a short-term lift from the conclusion of the report. It will certainly draw his own political base even closer to him, affirming in their minds that he was the victim of overzealous Democrats bent on undermining his presidency. The White House press office pushed that message aggressively Sunday night, saying that Democrats had “slandered” Mr. Trump and that “this should never again happen to an American president.”But while the deepening bond between conservative voters and Mr. Trump will solidify his political foundation, it will make it harder for Republicans in heavily suburban states and districts to separate themselves from the president next year.Mr. Trump may have a firmer grip on conservatives, but he and his party are still saddled with the same problem that weighed them down when Democrats picked up 40 seats to gain a majority in the House: The up-for-grabs voters who decide elections cannot abide his incendiary conduct.And that view will remain fixed so long as the president keeps acting in ways that turn off the political center, no matter the conclusion of the Mueller report or any of the other inquiries swirling around Mr. Trump’s presidency.“Tomorrow he could call a 5-year-old a curse word,” Ms. Caprara said, “and we’d be onto a new news cycle.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byletterA reader faults the Senate majority leader for his actions no matter the cost.To the Editor:“How Mitch McConnell Enables Trump,” by Adam Jentleson (Op-Ed, Feb. 19), helps put the power machinations of the Senate majority leader in true perspective.Senator McConnell’s talents are not used in the aid of his country, the institutional preservation of the Senate as part of the constitutional system of checks and balances, or ultimately the viability of his own Republican Party. His actions can be understood only through the lens of holding onto personal power at whatever expense.His obstructionist policies during the Obama administration showed his will to deny beneficial bipartisan legislation to avoid perceptions of President Barack Obama signing popular legislation into law. The bold precedent of blocking the nomination of Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court was a political coup but a dangerous precedent by any perspective. As Mr. Jentleson points out, Senator McConnell is selling out the power of the Senate to Donald Trump’s political base. Now, by supporting the president’s declaration of a national emergency to build the wall, he tries to hold onto political power by lashing the fate of the Republican Party even tighter to an amoral and incompetent president.President Trump is incompetent; Mitch McConnell is not. Senator McConnell is a man of impressive intelligence and ability. The tragedy is that these could have been used in a less selfish way to focus on effective governance for the betterment of his own party, the institutional preservation of the Senate and the prosperity of our country as a whole.Randall HirzelVimmerby, SwedenAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________• The Senate voted to overturn President Trump’s national emergency declaration at the southwest border, delivering a bipartisan rebuke for what lawmakers in both parties deemed executive overreach. The 59-41 vote on the House-passed measure sets up the first veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency.• House Republicans joined Democrats to demand that the Justice Department publicly release the full findings of Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and the possible involvement of Mr. Trump’s campaign.• Three votes in Congress this week — rebuking Mr. Trump over Saudi Arabia, blocking his national emergency declaration and demanding a public release of the Mueller report — demonstrated a newfound willingness among some of Mr. Trump’s Republican allies to stand up to him.• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has been personally pushing China to give the American film industry greater access to its markets. That has raised ethical questions, given his ties to Hollywood.• Mr. Mnuchin signaled that he would block a congressional request to obtain Mr. Trump’s tax returns on privacy grounds, setting up a potential legal battle if Democrats follow through.• New evidence suggests that Russian spies used networks run by Aleksej Gubarev, a tech entrepreneur, to hack the Democratic Party in 2016 — much as the so-called Steele dossier, which purported to detail Russian interference in the election, alleged.• Facing billions of dollars in cleanup costs, the Pentagon is pushing the Trump administration to adopt a weaker standard for groundwater pollution caused by chemicals that have commonly been used at military bases.• Afghanistan’s national security adviser accused the American special envoy of seeking personal benefit by sidelining the Afghan government in peace talks with the Taliban, “increasing the legitimacy of the Taliban” and “decreasing the legitimacy of the Afghan government.”_____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jonathan Martin and Alan BlinderRICHMOND, Va. — The third-ranking elected official in Virginia, Attorney General Mark R. Herring, acknowledged Wednesday that he had worn blackface at a party as an undergraduate student, deepening a crisis that has engulfed the state’s Democratic leadership.Then, just two hours later, a woman came forward to describe in detail her accusation that Lt. Gov. Justin E. Fairfax had sexually assaulted her in 2004, an accusation he denies.[Read more about the accusations against Mr. Fairfax here.]The back-to-back revelations threw the Capitol into a state of uncertainty about who would lead Virginia, coming less than one week after the disclosure of a racist photograph on the yearbook page of Gov. Ralph Northam led to demands for his resignation. Grim-faced legislators rushed through the hallways, shaken by a series of allegations and confessions that threatened to cripple the Virginia government’s three leading officials.Amid the tumult, Democratic lawmakers were all but paralyzed in the face of a deeply painful sequence of events that could undermine their hopes of reclaiming the State Legislature, the Republicans’ last remaining foothold of power in Virginia, in the fall. The party has not lost a statewide election here since 2009, and Virginia was the only Southern state President Trump lost in 2016.National Democrats, who were quick to call for Mr. Northam’s resignation last weekend and have generally adopted a zero-tolerance approach to transgressions on race and gender, were mostly silent after Mr. Herring’s disclosure and the extraordinary first-person account from Mr. Fairfax’s accuser.Mr. Northam, isolated for days and abandoned by the Democratic Party, did not make an appearance or comment on Wednesday’s developments. Mr. Fairfax, whose ascent to the governor’s office had been widely expected as recently as Saturday, rebutted the assault accusation in a muted tone that reflected his political peril.Although Mr. Northam has so far withstood calls for his resignation, the turmoil here has prompted scholars and strategists to scour the Virginia Constitution’s provisions on succession to the governor. Mr. Fairfax is next in line, followed by Mr. Herring. If all three men — Mr. Northam, Mr. Fairfax and Mr. Herring — were to resign without immediate replacements, Kirk Cox, the Republican House speaker, would become governor.Mr. Herring, 57, who had been preparing his own 2021 campaign for governor, perhaps against Mr. Fairfax, faced a personal reckoning four days after he called for the governor’s ouster — even as he harbored his own secret involving blackface.“That I have contributed to the pain Virginians have felt this week is the greatest shame I have ever felt,” Mr. Herring said in a statement, while acknowledging that his ability to remain as attorney general was in doubt.The cascade of events seemed almost surreal to many here. And with Virginia’s top three statewide officials facing mortal political threats in the midst of the legislative session and an election year, some senior legislators suggested it was time to stop demanding resignations.“I feel like I’m living in an episode of a Nathaniel Hawthorne novel where people are rushing to judgment, and it feels like if I don’t proclaim judgment right away, it somehow reflects on me,” said State Senator J. Chapman Petersen, a Northern Virginia Democrat. “I think we need to slow down.”Referring to the three officials, Mr. Petersen added, “I want them all to stay put until we learn more.”Asked who was in charge of the state, State Senator Adam P. Ebbin, a Democrat, replied, “The governor of Virginia — for now.”[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Although speculation about Mr. Herring’s history with blackface had coursed through the Capitol this week, it was not until Wednesday morning that he met with the Legislative Black Caucus to inform them. He then issued a statement that described how, as an undergraduate at the University of Virginia in 1980, he had dressed as the rapper Kurtis Blow.By Mr. Herring’s account, he and friends “dressed up and put on wigs and brown makeup” for a party, and that it was a one-time occurrence. The attorney general, who was elected in 2013 after serving in the General Assembly and in local government in Northern Virginia, said that “the shame of that moment has haunted me for decades.”Black legislators in the Capitol generally saw Mr. Herring as an ally on crucial issues. Their Wednesday morning meeting with black lawmakers was “emotional” for everyone present, including the attorney general, said State Senator Louise Lucas, a Democrat who attended the gathering. She said that the attorney general wiped tears from his cheek and that legislators also cried.Although Mr. Herring, who attributed his decision to imitate a black person to “ignorance and glib attitudes,” resigned as the co-chairman of the Democratic Attorneys General Association, he left open the question of whether he would stay in his state office.Mr. Herring’s admission came on the same day that Mr. Fairfax, the second African-American elected to statewide office in Virginia, confronted an altogether different allegation that, after shadowing him throughout the week, was openly detailed for the first time by his accuser, Vanessa C. Tyson.In a statement issued through her lawyers, Dr. Tyson, 42, a college professor from California, said she met Mr. Fairfax at the 2004 Democratic National Convention in Boston. According to Dr. Tyson, she accompanied Mr. Fairfax when he went to retrieve documents from his hotel room, and he then kissed her. Dr. Tyson said she kissed him back, but said she had “no intention of taking my clothes off or engaging in sexual activity.”Gov. Ralph Northam DemocratMr. Northam faces calls for his resignation after a racist photo in his medical school yearbook emerged last week and he admitted he once blackened his face as part of a Michael Jackson costume.Lt. Gov. Justin E. FairfaxDemocratTwo days later, Mr. Fairfax, the next in line for governor, faced allegations of sexual assault.Attorney General Mark R. HerringDemocratOn Wednesday, Mr. Herring acknowledged that he put on blackface and wore a wig while an undergraduate at the University of Virginia in 1980.Speaker of the House of Delegates Kirk CoxRepublicanIf all three men were to resign without immediate replacements, Mr. Cox would become governor.If the speaker is ineligible to serve, then a replacement would be chosen by the House of Delegates.By The New York TimesDr. Tyson wrote that Mr. Fairfax “forcefully pushed my head towards his crotch” and forced her to perform oral sex. “I never gave any form of consent,” she said.Mr. Fairfax, 39, in a statement released shortly before Dr. Tyson detailed her version of events, described their interaction as “a consensual encounter” and asserted that she did not “express to me any discomfort or concern.” Later in the day, in a more spare and conciliatory statement, he said: “I take this situation very seriously and continue to believe Dr. Tyson should be treated with respect. But I cannot agree to a description of events that simply is not true.”Dr. Tyson spoke to The Washington Post about her allegation before Mr. Fairfax was sworn in as lieutenant governor last year, but the newspaper did not publish her account because it could not be corroborated.At the time of the initial inquiry by The Post, Mr. Fairfax retained the Washington law firm that would go on to represent Brett M. Kavanaugh when he faced charges of sexual misconduct during his Supreme Court confirmation hearings. Mr. Fairfax, whose aides insisted he would not resign, re-engaged the firm on Sunday.This week, as he faced intensifying questions about his past conduct, Mr. Fairfax veered from varying responses; he suggested that allies of Mr. Northam and then Mayor Levar Stoney of Richmond, a political rival, were behind the abrupt airing of the allegation in hopes of blocking his path to the governor’s office.The issue, though, is one of immense delicacy for Democrats. Since last fall’s hearings for Justice Kavanaugh, they have often said that women who come forward to reveal sexual harassment or assault should be believed.Some Virginia Democrats, after hearing of Dr. Tyson’s account, declined to say if they believed the lieutenant governor should resign.“Everybody is entitled to have their voices heard,” Senator Barbara Favola, an Arlington Democrat, said when asked about the allegations.Wednesday’s sequences of events plainly roiled the state government, which had been on edge in the wake of Mr. Northam’s seeming political implosion. The governor has not been seen in public since Sunday, a day after he revealed at a nationally televised news conference that he had once put shoe polish on his cheeks to dress as Michael Jackson at a dance party in 1984. At the same time, he retracted his earlier admission that he was one of the people in a photograph on his yearbook page that showed one person in blackface and another in a Ku Klux Klan robes.Mr. Fairfax was preparing for the possibility of succeeding Mr. Northam, as nearly every major state and national Democrat demanded the governor’s resignation.At the same time, the stately, neo-Classical Capitol has been transformed into a hub of political intrigue and suspicion. National television crews have been set up in front of the Executive Mansion since Saturday, and the State Police have offered Mr. Fairfax a level of protection that resembles that of a sitting governor.On Wednesday, legislators expressed open bewilderment as they shared the Capitol’s corridors with dozens of Catholic priests who were lobbying lawmakers against abortion and button-wearing women who visited in support of the Equal Rights Amendment.Black legislators walked into the statehouse Wednesday with downcast looks on their faces after Mr. Herring disclosed his past behavior to them. The group convened again later Wednesday, and Democratic members of the General Assembly suggested that they would take their cues from their African-American colleagues.“The black caucus is not shy,” Delegate Lamont Bagby, the chairman of the black caucus, said on Wednesday afternoon. “We’ll speak.”The State Senate’s top two leaders, who are both white, avoided questions about the turmoil that subsumed a crucial week for lawmakers.“Nice to see you,” Senator Thomas K. Norment Jr., a Republican who is the Senate majority leader, told a reporter as he headed toward a meeting room less than an hour after Mr. Herring’s statement.“It’s a lovely day today,” said Senator Richard L. Saslaw, the Democratic leader of the State Senate.Both men ducked into a room.Other legislators similarly deflected questions. One, State Senator Richard H. Stuart, a Republican who is close to Mr. Northam, professed to be focusing on the state budget.By day’s end, the question of Mr. Herring’s fate was arguably the most open-ended. In his statement on Wednesday, Mr. Herring said imminent “honest conversations and discussions will make it clear whether I can or should continue to serve as attorney general.”Mr. Northam has indicated that he intends to remain governor until his term ends in 2022, telling aides that he wants to clear his name, and Mr. Fairfax said Wednesday that he anticipated “continuing my work to unify the commonwealth.”But it seemed no one could speak with much confidence about what lies ahead.Asked about the state of the government, Delegate Mark L. Keam, a Democrat from Fairfax County, replied with one word: “Uncertain.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Raphael MinderMADRID — The Spanish government teetered on the brink of collapse Wednesday, as the dispute over the status of the prosperous northeastern region of Catalonia stymied passage of a national budget and threatened to usher in another round of protracted political uncertainty.Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez, one of the few Socialist leaders left standing on the European political stage, was hoping to use his budget to increase social spending and address the inequalities that have accompanied Spain’s economic recovery.Instead, Mr. Sánchez, who leads a precarious minority government, was now facing a decision in coming days on when to call new elections — a seeming inevitability — after Catalan lawmakers withdrew their support, trying to force the issue of independence for their region back to the fore of Spanish politics.For Spain, and indeed all of Europe, a new round of political turbulence could hardly come at a worse time. The Continent already faces the challenge of Brexit, as the British divorce from the European Union is called, with a deadline of March 29 looming.Elsewhere, from Eastern and Central Europe to Italy to the hinterlands of France, populist forces continue to test the very cohesion of the bloc, both on the streets and in the halls of power.Spain, by comparison, was shaping up as a relative bright spot for supporters of the European Union. But a return to elections would most likely reveal a fractious and increasingly polarized political landscape that makes Spain less the exception than the rule in Europe today.Spain stood out as “a rare beacon for Social Democrats across Europe,” as well as one of the few large members of the European Union led by a government committed to more European integration “in the midst of Brexit and fracture in Italy,” said Pablo Simón, a politics professor at the Carlos III University in Madrid.“We’re now seeing that Spain, on top of the issue of Catalonia, has just the same problems as the countries around us, in terms of fragmentation and parties that struggle to maintain credibility and form solid alliances.”Given the growing polarization in Spain, Professor Simón added, a snap election could produce “all sorts of scenarios, including a new period of complete blockage.”Indeed, Mr. Sánchez and his Socialist party came to power only by a thread in 2018, two years after the country held two inconclusive national elections and political parties haggled for nearly a year over who should run the government.In the end, Mr. Sánchez formed unwieldy alliances, including with Basque and Catalan nationalist parties, to oust Mariano Rajoy, the conservative prime minister, in a parliamentary vote of no-confidence and form his own Socialist government with only about a quarter of the seats in Parliament.That vulnerability, ever-present since Mr. Sánchez took office last June, finally manifested itself in his budget vote.On Wednesday, lawmakers turned down the government’s budget plan by a vote of 191 to 158, with one abstention. It was the first time since 1995 that the Spanish Parliament had rejected a government’s budget.Mr. Sánchez left Parliament without taking questions, but his budget minister later acknowledged that the government considered its mandate to be contingent on having a budget for 2019.Under Spanish law, the next national election was to be held by mid-2020 in any case. But it seems almost certain that voters will instead return to the polls before the summer.This time around, as Spain has shifted from a two-party system to a much more fragmented political landscape, a national election could be even more unsettling and unpredictable.Recent opinion polls suggest that the current opposition parties could win enough votes to form a right-wing coalition government. At the same time, a far-right party, Vox, has emerged on the political stage for the first time since the end of the Franco dictatorship in the 1970s.In December, Vox achieved its electoral breakthrough in an election in Andalusia, the southern region of Spain, in part on concerns over a recent rise in number of migrants coming from Africa.New elections would be a test of Vox’s viability, and potential role as a kingmaker, at the national level. The party also wants to recentralize Spain and has a front-line role in the landmark trial of 12 former Catalan leaders before the Supreme Court in Madrid, which started on Tuesday. Alongside state prosecutors, Vox’s lawyers filed their own set of charges against the Catalans, who are accused of rebellion and sedition in connection with the 2017 referendum and the region’s subsequent declaration of independence.Mr. Sánchez’s own prospects are unclear, but in the past he has demonstrated sharp survival skills. In 2017, he was ousted as leader of his party, but just a year later, he had not only retaken the helm of his party but also become prime minister.The debate over Mr. Sánchez’s defeat on Wednesday focused less on his spending plans than on his handling of Catalonia — highlighting the power that Catalonia’s territorial conflict has to shape national politics.Catalan lawmakers turned their backs on Mr. Sánchez after failing to persuade him to consider holding a second independence referendum, after the region held one in October 2017 that was ruled unconstitutional and that Spanish police sought to block.Upon taking office, Mr. Sánchez pledged to renew dialogue with the governing pro-independence politicians in Catalonia, in an effort to end a crisis that reached boiling point in 2017. He soon met with Quim Torra, the separatist leader of Catalonia, who also took office in June.But their talks got nowhere, and Mr. Torra recently warned that his party would not approve a new Spanish budget unless Mr. Sánchez considered holding another referendum, this time with the agreement of the central government in Madrid.Mr. Sánchez’s government rejected this proposal as political blackmail, insisting that such a referendum was incompatible with the Spanish Constitution.For even opening the dialogue, some right-wing politicians labeled Mr. Sánchez as a traitor to Spanish unity. At their urging, tens of thousands of people demonstrated in Madrid last weekend, demanding a new election and denouncing the prime minister’s handling of Catalonia.After the budget vote, Pablo Casado, who replaced Mr. Rajoy as leader of the opposition Popular Party, told a news conference that an election was unavoidable, calling the budget setback “a vote of no-confidence against Mr. Sánchez.”In recent months, Mr. Casado has called for a return to direct rule from Madrid over Catalonia in order to end the secessionist challenge.“The Socialists have said they would keep the door open to talk with those who staged a coup d’état” in 2017, Mr. Casado said on Wednesday. “We want a government that depends neither on separatists nor on populists.”Albert Rivera, the leader of the Ciudadanos party, also accused Mr. Sánchez of joining forces with “those who want to liquidate Spain.”He told a separate news conference: “There are two problems in Spain: separatism and having Sánchez in the Moncloa,” the government compound in Madrid.Joan Tardà, a Catalan lawmaker, said his separatist party had rejected a budget that included higher spending in Catalonia because Mr. Sánchez was “running scared” from Spain’s right-wing opposition and refusing an open negotiation with the Catalan independence movement.“It is a huge lost opportunity because they know that, sooner or later, they will have to negotiate a democratic solution,” he told reporters.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris BuckleyBEIJING — China’s leader, Xi Jinping, abruptly summoned hundreds of officials to Beijing recently, forcing some to reschedule long-planned local assemblies. The meeting seemed orchestrated to convey anxious urgency. The Communist Party, Mr. Xi told the officials, faces major risks on all fronts and must batten down the hatches.Whether dealing with foreign policy, trade, unemployment, or property prices, he declared, officials would be held responsible if they slipped up and let dangers spiral into real threats.“Globally, sources of turmoil and points of risk are multiplying,” he told the gathering in January at the Central Party School. At home, he added, “the party is at risk from indolence, incompetence and of becoming divorced from the public.”The speech was one of Mr. Xi’s starkest warnings since he came to power in 2012, and has been echoed at hundreds of local party meetings nationwide.It underscores how slowing growth and China’s grinding trade fight with the United States have magnified the party leadership’s chronic fears of social unrest. Trade talks in Washington between American and Chinese officials ended last week without an official agreement, although President Trump delayed a deadline to increase tariffs on Chinese goods, saying that negotiators were making progress.“Beijing is confronting significant pressure from the international community over its political and business practices that only adds to its difficulties in dealing with its domestic issues,” said Elizabeth C. Economy, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York who wrote “The Third Revolution,” a study of Mr. Xi.There are no political challengers on the horizon who could pose an immediate threat to the Communist Party or Mr. Xi. But his remarks made clear that especially in 2019 — a year of politically sensitive anniversaries — the party would aggressively extinguish sparks that could ignite protests and turbulence.A year ago, Mr. Xi triumphed at China’s national legislature, abolishing a term limit on his presidency, opening the way for another decade or longer as both president and party leader, and shaking up the government to become a more compliant tool of party power.A year on, though, Mr. Xi’s speech and other official warnings show that triumphalism has receded. Mr. Xi also appeared keen to signal that if anything goes wrong, other officials will also shoulder responsibility, said several experts.“It was about showing that the risks aren’t borne by just Xi Jinping, but go down to other members of the Politburo Standing Committee and down again from there,” said Wu Qiang, a political analyst in Beijing.Mr. Xi’s warnings were more wide-ranging than his previous repeated calls about risk, experts said, and his defensiveness is likely to constrain policy changes this year. Even though President Trump’s negotiators want China to take big steps in reducing state controls on the economy, Mr. Xi appears to be in no mood for gambles, Mr. Wu said.“The central leadership’s assessment of risks to China has officially expanded from the economy to every sphere,” Mr. Wu said. “This year will put policing and security to the forefront.”The timing of the meeting was designed to reinforce Mr. Xi’s message, according to an online article from People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s official news outlet, noting that local legislatures’ scheduled meetings were forced to make way for it.Mr. Xi made clear that the economy was a major concern, telling officials to beware of “black swans” and “gray rhinos” — investor jargon for surprise economic shocks and financial risks hiding in plain sight.The economic risks to China include rising local government debt, Mr. Trump’s trade tariffs and international pushback against China’s technological expansion, most recently against Huawei, the telecommunications equipment maker.But Mr. Xi identified dangers that extended far beyond the economy, especially political risks like the party’s ability to keep young Chinese from slipping from its ideological orbit.He demanded stricter controls on the Chinese internet — which is already thoroughly censored — and more indoctrination to “ensure that the youth generation become builders and inheritors of socialism.”“Younger officials must go in guns blazing to take on these major struggles,” Mr. Xi told the officials, seated in rows like students taking notes.Yet Mr. Xi’s demands for unyielding stability could backfire, experts say, as warnings of danger around every turn could smother the initiative and flexibility that Chinese officials need to defuse long-term economic and social dangers.The demands for rigid order on so many fronts put local cadres in near impossible binds, they said: trying to prevent job losses while cutting debt and shutting inefficient “zombie” businesses; trying to buoy private investment while cracking down on pollution and bank credit; and proclaiming public confidence in the government while stifling complaints from the public.“If everything is a risk, you can end up mitigating nothing,” said Jude Blanchette, an expert on Chinese policymaking at Crumpton Group in Virginia, which advises companies on investments.China’s jumpiness can seem far-fetched, given the Communist Party’s daunting reach, the underlying strength of the economy and the extensive powers of the domestic security services.But anxiety seems to run deep in Mr. Xi’s veins.He is the son of a revered Communist revolutionary, and since coming to power he has hinted at worry that party power could easily slip away. Soon after taking office, he said that the Soviet Union had fallen apart because Mikhail S. Gorbachev failed to lead like a “real man.”Since Mr. Xi, 65, abolished the term limit on his presidency last year, murmurs of discontent have risen among academics, businesspeople and former officials, despite censorship and the security police.Chinese leaders’ worries have been magnified by what party journals warn is an increasingly hostile bloc of Western governments, led by the United States, that have pushed back against Chinese high-tech acquisitions, propaganda influence and the mass detentions in Xinjiang.This year especially, Chinese officials worry that sensitive anniversaries could act as kindling, according to directives issued by local governments. It is 30 years since student protests for democratic change filled Beijing and other Chinese cities, ending in a bloody armed crackdown around Tiananmen Square that began late on June 3, 1989.It is also 100 years since the watershed “May 4” patriotic student protests of 1919, 60 years since a failed uprising against Chinese rule in Tibet and 10 years since ethnic riots killed hundreds in Xinjiang, the western region where hundreds of thousands of Uighur Muslims have been detained in indoctrination camps.The government is also preparing grand celebrations in October to commemorate 70 years since Mao founded the People’s Republic of China.Since the January meeting, provinces, cities and towns have rolled out or freshened up plans to monitor and contain dangers. Officials from Hunan Province, for example, vowed to beat back debt owed by state-linked companies. Liu Jiayi, the party chief of Shandong Province in the east, also called for dealing with discontented former soldiers demanding better welfare.Local governments have warned the police to redouble their vigilance against protests ahead of the “sensitive anniversary dates.” Small protests by Marxist students supporting striking workers in 2018 already resulted in detentions and warnings on university campuses in Beijing.“Prevent social and economic risks evolving into political risks,” Chen Yixin, the secretary-general of the party’s law and order committee, said late last month. With the internet, he said, “a small incident can form into a vortex of public opinion.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alexander BurnsMichael R. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor who joined the Democratic Party last year to crusade against President Trump, announced he would not seek the White House himself in 2020, discarding plans to mount a maverick campaign that would have tested the party’s openness to a wealthy centrist with a chameleon-like approach to partisan politics.Mr. Bloomberg’s decision appears to reflect a recognition of the long odds he would have faced as a moderate newcomer in an unapologetically liberal party, and his own unsentimental calculus about the trade-offs involved in running. After conducting polling and other research, Mr. Bloomberg’s advisers concluded he would have a real but narrow path to the nomination — and that it could all but vanish if Joseph R. Biden Jr., the former vice president, entered the race.“I believe I would defeat Donald Trump in a general election,” Mr. Bloomberg wrote, in a Bloomberg News column announcing his decision. “But I am clear-eyed about the difficulty of winning the Democratic nomination in such a crowded field.”[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Though Mr. Bloomberg is aligned with Democrats on a range of issues like climate change and gun violence, he is also a proudly pro-business centrist in a party that has moved sharply to the left in its rhetoric and policy proposals. And his record on policing as mayor, as well as his generally favorable view of Wall Street, would likely have proven troublesome in a field that is establishing litmus tests on social justice and corporate power.In his column, Mr. Bloomberg cautioned Democrats not to shift too far to the left.“It’s essential that we nominate a Democrat who will be in the strongest position to defeat Donald Trump and bring our country back together,” he wrote. “We cannot allow the primary process to drag the party to an extreme that would diminish our chances in the general election and translate into ‘Four More Years.’”Rather than entering the race himself, Mr. Bloomberg intends to plow his political energy and immense personal fortune into other efforts to thwart Mr. Trump and his agenda, including an initiative aimed at rapidly accelerating the country’s transition to renewable energy. He also expects to be heavily involved in the 2020 general election, organizing and financing opposition to Mr. Trump.Mr. Bloomberg, 77, notified advisers of his decision on Monday, capping months of exhaustive research into the possibility of running as a Democrat. Polling and focus groups found that Mr. Bloomberg had a path to the Democratic nomination, his advisers said, but that he would likely struggle to compete if Mr. Biden were to run.By removing himself from consideration, Mr. Bloomberg may have the effect of increasing the pressure on Mr. Biden to announce a campaign in the coming weeks. The two men have been the most prominent moderates contemplating the 2020 Democratic primary, a contest largely defined so far by candidates well to their left, most notably Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont.Without Mr. Bloomberg joining the fray, armed with his personal wealth and a fearsome political operation, Mr. Biden now stands apart in his evident ability to wage a strong campaign on comparatively centrist terms.In the column announcing his plans, Mr. Bloomberg said he had resolved that his time and resources would be better spent campaigning for his favorite causes than pursuing an underdog candidacy. In addition to his new climate campaign, called Beyond Carbon, Mr. Bloomberg said he would redouble his efforts to enact gun-control regulations around the country.“I know there’s much more we can accomplish over the next two years, but only if we stay focused on the work and expand upon it,” Mr. Bloomberg said. “And the fact is: a national presidential campaign would limit my ability to do that.”Mr. Bloomberg’s announcement ends the latest of several efforts he has made to pursue the presidency, stretching back a dozen years, and likely marks a final abandonment of his longstanding ambition to capture the White House. Instead, he appears poised to fully embrace his slow-motion transformation into one of the principal financial and organizational backers of the Democratic Party.Mr. Bloomberg came close to running for president in 2016 as an independent candidate, but ultimately concluded that only the nominee of a major party could win.[Follow the Democratic presidential field with our candidate tracker.]Mr. Bloomberg and his advisers studied the presidential landscape for months, conducting national and state-level polling and holding focus groups with voters around the country. They concluded that he would have had significant strengths even in a crowded Democratic race, including his biography as a self-made entrepreneur and his extraordinary stature as a philanthropist.Mr. Bloomberg was so serious in his considerations that he had begun discussing with aides how he would structure operations in the White House, including the possibility of implementing the same bullpen-style office space he used at City Hall in the East Wing. He had three different teams of advisers briefing him on foreign, defense and domestic policy, with the latter led by Bruce Reed, a former chief of staff to Mr. Biden, according to a Bloomberg adviser.But there were also neon-lit warning signs for Mr. Bloomberg, an avowed technocrat who was first elected mayor as a Republican in 2001. Populist liberals, including Mr. Sanders and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, have framed their candidacies around opposing the influence of money in politics — arguments that might have stung Mr. Bloomberg with particular force.So, too, might the scrutiny facing the wider field of Democratic candidates on the issue of criminal justice policy. Other contenders, including Mr. Biden and Senator Kamala Harris of California, have been pushed onto the defensive for having pursued traditional tough-on-crime policies in the past. As mayor of New York, Mr. Bloomberg supported stop-and-frisk policing, which was found to target black and Hispanic people disproportionately.In a September interview, Mr. Bloomberg expressed no regret about employing aggressive policing tactics as mayor, and questioned whether many of the allegations arising as a result of #MeToo deserved to be believed. He described his emerging identity as a Democrat as something of a default choice, citing his support for abortion rights.“It’s impossible to conceive that I could run as a Republican — things like choice, so many of the issues, I’m just way away from where the Republican Party is today,” Mr. Bloomberg said.Where Mr. Bloomberg has aligned most cleanly with Democrats has been his contempt for Mr. Trump, whom he has described routinely as divisive and incompetent. After endorsing Hillary Clinton for president in 2016, Mr. Bloomberg threw his political clout wholly behind Democrats in the 2018 midterm elections, spending about $112 million to lift the party and dedicating most of that sum to seizing control of the House.Mr. Bloomberg has been welcomed into the top ranks of the Democratic Party with open arms. On Tuesday, both Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic minority leader, praised Mr. Bloomberg in glowing language.Mr. Schumer said he was “a great mayor and would have been a strong candidate,” while Ms. Pelosi said his candidacy would have been an “important addition to the discussion about how we go forward as a country.”In a boon to Democrats, Mr. Bloomberg is expected to keep intact the political operation he assembled for a presidential race, which includes a number of former top advisers to President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, and to deploy it instead on a project to help build Democratic infrastructure for the party’s eventual nominee.David Plouffe, Mr. Obama’s 2008 campaign manager, confirmed in an interview that he had been lending advice to Mr. Bloomberg about an outside-spending effort aimed at helping Democrats overcome Mr. Trump’s organizational and technological advantages.“I think there are huge gaps that need to be filled, and this Bloomberg effort has a chance to be an important — or the important — ingredient,” Mr. Plouffe said.The electoral component of Mr. Bloomberg’s agenda, however, is less defined at this than his plans for climate advocacy. His policy advisers are in the process of drawing up a proposal for hastening the United States’ transition away from all carbon energy, and they plan to release the details soon.Carl Pope, an adviser to Mr. Bloomberg, said the draft plan involves eliminating coal power outright by 2030 and massive initiatives to electrify transit infrastructure and buildings, as well as ambitious scientific research projects.Mr. Pope said the plan would differ substantially from the Green New Deal, a climate proposal backed by liberal Democrats in Congress, because Mr. Bloomberg’s alternative was not also focused on expanding the economic safety net.Senator Ed Markey of Massachusetts, a champion of the Green New Deal legislation, called Mr. Bloomberg’s announcement “a huge infusion of energy into the movement.”Mr. Markey, who has endorsed Ms. Warren for president, suggested Mr. Bloomberg had chosen wisely by directing his energy away from the primary.“I think that Mike realized that his time would be better spent doing rather than talking,” Mr. Markey said.An earlier version misstated Mr. Bloomberg’s age. He is 77, not 76.Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe April 9 election is an opportunity for the left to present a moral alternative and take a stand for democracy.By Ayman OdehMr. Odeh leads the Joint List, the third-largest bloc in Israel’s parliament, the Knesset, and is chairman of the Hadash Party.HAIFA, Israel — I was sitting in my family’s home in Haifa in 1984 when I watched a man who had just won a seat in the Knesset appear on television. In American-accented Hebrew, he reiterated the cornerstone of his campaign platform: All Arabs must be expelled from the land — by force, if necessary. In its televised campaign advertisement, his party had declared, “In the name of God and Israel, the Arabs must go.” I was 9 years old, Palestinian, Arab and a citizen of Israel. This man, Meir Kahane, wanted me gone.Thirty-five years later, I am still here. Mr. Kahane’s party was banned by Israel’s High Court in 1988 and declared a terrorist organization in 1994. And I lead the Hadash Party and, for the past four years, the Joint List, representing Palestinian citizens of Israel in the Knesset. Mr. Kahane’s adherents are still here, too, but no party that so explicitly pledges allegiance to his vision has made a successful bid for the Knesset since.That looks like it will change this year.On Feb. 20, I sat with my 10-year-old son, Tayeb, in our family home in Haifa as we watched news reports that a new Kahanist party called Jewish Power, which advocates ethnic cleansing throughout the country and whose leader, in 2012, openly called for the erasure of Gaza, had incorporated and joined with two other extremist political parties to run in the general election on April 9. It seems very likely that they’ll take seats as members of the next Knesset.In 1984, even right-wing members of Knesset left the room when Mr. Kahane stood to speak. The prime minister at the time, Yitzhak Shamir of the right-wing Likud Party, said he would absolutely refuse to allow Mr. Kahane into his coalition, even if it cost him the government. Now Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is opening the doors of the Knesset and welcoming the Kahanists inside.Perhaps this shouldn’t come as a surprise. Mr. Netanyahu’s rule over his decade in office has been increasingly racist. Last year he enacted the Nation-State Law, which legalized certain forms of racial discrimination and officially transformed the Arab population in Israel into second-class citizens. He’s perfectly willing to embrace violent and radical extremists — including anti-Semitic right-wing authoritarians like Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary — as long as they appear to support his unrepentant aggression and indefinite occupation of the West Bank.Moreover, Mr. Netanyahu needs every extremist vote he can get to stay in office. He enters the elections with charges of fraud, bribery and breach of public trust hanging over his head. He faces a new, serious challenge from the center. He’s willing to go to any length to maintain control of the government: demonizing Arabs, branding the media as the enemy of the people, and even relying on Kahanists to win a majority.If we are to defeat this dangerous alliance, we must provide a clear alternative. The only way for the left to prevail is to choose solidarity and the shared Jewish-Arab struggle for peace, equality and democracy.Palestinian Arab citizens of Israel represent 20 percent of the population. We cannot change the course of the country alone. But there is no electoral math that leads to victory for a center-left-wing coalition without the participation of the Arab parties. The center-left parties vying to unseat Mr. Netanyahu surely understand this math. Yet they stubbornly insist that a coalition government cannot rely on Arab parties, or the people we represent.This hasn’t always been the case. In the 1990s, support from parties representing Palestinian Arab citizens of Israel saved the government of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin from collapse. While they didn’t officially join the coalition, two Arab and Arab-Jewish parties created an outside bloc that allowed Rabin to remain prime minister in exchange for an unprecedented role in policymaking. This was one of the most effective periods in the history of Arab parties in the Knesset. They were able to help bring about real gains for Palestinian citizens of Israel, including recognition and incorporation of villages in the Galilee, preventing the Israeli government from confiscating Palestinian lands in Jerusalem, and boosting budgets to Arab municipalities.This was also the most significant period for the peace process. Parties representing Palestinian citizens of Israel played an important role at a time when the government was negotiating Israel’s recognition of the Palestine Liberation Organization in return for Palestinian recognition of the existence of the State of Israel, signing the Oslo accords and exiting Gaza and Jericho.These political and policy achievements are significant enough on their own, but Arab participation also contributed to and coincided with a culture very different from today’s. I remember the period of the Oslo Accords as a time of great hope, with a feeling of peace in the air. It brought us closer, Arabs and Jews, and made us all, for a brief moment, feel as though we belonged. We weren’t able to end the occupation and create full equality on our own. But for the first time, we were a political force that could not be ignored.Since that time, Mr. Netanyahu and his allies on the right have understood that Palestinian citizens of Israel will be part of the solution, so they have chosen to make us the problem. In this election, like in the Rabin years, a center-left coalition cannot capture enough seats to form a government without Arab parties’ support.No one understands this better than Mr. Netanyahu, which is why he is doing everything he can to make the case that a legitimate government cannot depend on Arabs. Indeed, one of his favorite talking points against his biggest challengers, Benny Gantz and Yair Lapid, is that their government will include parties that represent Arabs.But instead of challenging this racist and fundamentally anti-democratic notion, center-left parties have reinforced it. Mr. Lapid has promised, “We won’t form a government with the Arab parties.” Even Avi Gabbay of the Labor Party, when he became party leader in 2017, declared definitively, “We will not share a government with the Joint List, period.”This is politically foolish. But equally important, it misses the great opportunity to model the shared future we want for our children. If the center-left parties believe Palestinian citizens of Israel have a place in this country, they must accept that we have a place in its politics. We cannot build a shared future if we are relegated to the back seats of the Knesset chamber. Only a diverse and principled left-wing bloc will have the political power and moral might to create a real alternative in this country.Ayman Odeh (@ayodeh) leads the Joint List, the third-largest bloc in Israel’s parliament, the Knesset, and is chairman of the Hadash Party.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLayWELLINGTON, New Zealand — In New Zealand, members of the public are accustomed to seeing their top government officials at the grocery store or on the street, unencumbered by security guards as is more common in other parts of the world.The country’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, even jokingly recounted to Stephen Colbert on the “The Late Show” about being approached by chatty strangers while she shopped for maternity bras.But on Thursday morning, a government minister was attacked while walking to work alone in the capital city, leading Ms. Ardern to warn that New Zealanders’ unusual level of access to the country’s lawmakers should not be taken for granted.“We have an environment in New Zealand where politicians are accessible, and that’s something we should feel proud of,” Ms Ardern said. “We are, after all, here to serve people. But today’s events really show we cannot take that for granted.”The victim, James Shaw, 45, a co-leader of the left-leaning Green Party and the minister for climate change, told the police that he was grabbed and hit in the Thursday morning attack, leaving him with a black eye and cuts on his face. After being treated at the scene, he went on to attend a meeting at Parliament before admitting himself for examination in a hospital, where he remained on Thursday afternoon.Pete Huggins, a Green Party spokesman, said Mr. Shaw had told the police that his assailant knew his name, although officers have not said whether they believe the attack was planned, or what motivated it.The episode rattled New Zealand, which Mr. Huggins described as “a very close-knit community and a very open society.”Unlike in many countries, including the United States and Britain, the prime minister is the only lawmaker accompanied round-the-clock by security personnel; government ministers and other lawmakers are not. Residents of Wellington, New Zealand’s capital, regularly see elected officials walking or cycling the streets alone, and some politicians opt to take public transportation rather than using government vehicles.“I would hate to see that go,” Marama Davidson, a lawmaker who leads the Green Party with Mr. Shaw, said during a news conference Thursday.“It would be a shame to lose the way that people can approach us and access us in this country,” she added. “That’s one of the things I value about the way we do politics here in New Zealand.”The police have arrested and charged a 47-year-old man in the attack on Mr. Shaw. The man, whom the police did not identify, will appear in the Wellington District Court on Friday.Lawmakers from across the political spectrum joined in condemning the attack. Wellington’s mayor, Justin Lester, wrote on social media that the assailant’s behavior had been “outrageous” and that New Zealanders were “lucky to have unparalleled access” to their elected representatives.Members of the public also expressed shock. One Twitter user branded the attack on Mr. Shaw “an assault on democracy.” Another said it was hoped that the attack was “an awful one off and not a canary in the coal mine moment” for New Zealand.Bryce Edwards, a veteran New Zealand political commentator, said that down-to-earth qualities commanded respect from New Zealanders. “We like our politicians to be ‘one of us’ not ‘above us,’” he said.While it was not clear whether the attack was politically motivated, some lawmakers took the opportunity to denounce what they said was a trend toward over-the-top reactions by people who disagreed with politicians.David Parker, the trade minister and a lawmaker for the center-left Labour Party, cited what he called “extreme opinion feeding political biases and causing instability in some people” that was “fed through social media platforms.”Ms. Ardern stopped short of saying that security should be beefed up for lawmakers. The episode took place in an inner-city area of Wellington, just minutes from Ms. Ardern’s residence.Violence against New Zealand lawmakers is rare. The last one to make global headlines in recent years was in 2016, when a then government minister, Steven Joyce, was hit in the face with a sex toy thrown by a protester, an episode that caused more mirth than fury.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alexander BurnsWilliam F. Weld, the maverick former governor of Massachusetts, announced on Friday that he would form an exploratory committee to challenge President Trump for the Republican Party’s 2020 nomination, presenting himself as a dissident voice in a political party that has abandoned its mainstream roots.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Mr. Weld, 73, is the first Republican to announce he will run against the president. But Mr. Weld is unlikely to pose a major threat to Mr. Trump and he is in some ways an incongruous figure to leap into the presidential fray. Mr. Weld is a moderate Republican who ran for vice president in 2016 on the Libertarian ticket. His candidacy might be more of an act of protest than a conventional national campaign.But appearing in New Hampshire, Mr. Weld called it a moral duty to stand against “the hard heart, closed mind and clenched fist of nativism and nationalism.”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]“I hope to see the Republican Party assume once again the mantle of being the party of Lincoln,” Mr. Weld said, according to video posted by the news station WCVB. “It upsets me that our energies as a society are being sapped by the president’s culture of divisiveness of Washington.”He continued: “We cannot sit passively as our precious democracy slips quietly into darkness.”Mr. Weld had made little secret in recent months of his interest in challenging Mr. Trump in 2020, either by running for the Libertarian Party’s nomination or by contesting the Republican presidential primaries. He met repeatedly with Republicans organizing opposition to the president, and earlier this month he was reported to have changed his voter registration back to Republican.Several other Republicans are contemplating challenges to Mr. Trump in the primaries, including Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland and former Gov. John Kasich of Ohio. Mr. Trump’s aides have taken the threat of a primary challenge seriously enough to undertake a close review of the rules for the Republican nominating convention and to begin scrutinizing state party chairs and potential convention delegates for political loyalty.But Mr. Trump and his allies have largely declined to go after potential primary rivals in public, trusting that his solid approval ratings with Republicans will insulate him and declining to issue vocal attacks that could have the effect of elevating a challenger.Mr. Weld, a former federal prosecutor from a prominent Boston family, has spent most of his career as the kind of Republican that used to dominate politics across the Northeast. A fiscal conservative who has long supported gay rights and abortion rights, Mr. Weld could have some appeal to moderate Republicans who feel alienated from their party as it continues to swing far to the right.But partisan Republicans also have ample reason to regard Mr. Weld with suspicion. He endorsed Barack Obama for president in 2008 over John McCain, before flipping back to the Republican side in 2012 when his friend and longtime ally, Mitt Romney, was the G.O.P. nominee.Mr. Weld then backed Jeb Bush in the 2016 Republican primaries, before defecting to the Libertarian Party to become the running mate of Gary Johnson, the former governor of New Mexico. The two won a little over 3 percent of the vote.Mr. Weld explained his decision to run that year as a function of his horror over Mr. Trump’s candidacy, comparing Mr. Trump’s rhetoric about immigration to “the glass crunching on Kristallnacht in the ghettos of Warsaw and Vienna.”It is no accident that Mr. Weld unveiled his tentative plan to run for president in New Hampshire, where there is still a sizable community of Republican centrists and independent voters are permitted to vote in partisan primaries.Mr. Weld has some experience with insurgent presidential primary challenges in New Hampshire. In 1992, as a fresh-faced governor from next door, Mr. Weld campaigned in the state to help President George H.W. Bush turn back a challenge from Pat Buchanan, a hard-right nationalist in the mold of Mr. Trump. Mr. Bush defeated Mr. Buchanan, but the conservative commentator’s showing in New Hampshire helped sustain his activist campaign nationally and hobbled the president’s re-election.A New Hampshire contest between Mr. Trump and Mr. Weld would effectively reverse the roles from 1992 — with the fire-breathing immigration hawk as president, and the low-key aristocrat as his gadfly challenger.Cassie Smedile, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, dismissed Mr. Weld and any other challengers who might emerge, citing Mr. Trump’s popularity with Republicans and his “long list of incredible accomplishments for conservatives and the country.”“The R.N.C. and the Republican Party are firmly behind the president,” she said. “Any effort to challenge the president’s nomination is bound to go absolutely nowhere.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian AustenOTTAWA — The top political adviser to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada resigned on Monday, deepening a political crisis over allegations the government tried to interfere in a criminal court case.In a statement announcing his departure, Gerald Butts, who has been a close friend of Mr. Trudeau’s since their university days, linked his leaving to the allegations that he, the prime minister and others improperly pressured Jody Wilson-Raybould, when she was the justice minister and attorney general, to quash the criminal prosecution of a major Canadian engineering and construction company.Mr. Butts repeatedly denied in his resignation letter that any such action took place.“Any accusation that I or the staff put pressure on the attorney general is simply not true,” Mr. Butts wrote. “But the fact is that this accusation exists. It cannot and should not take one moment away from the vital work the prime minister and his office is doing for all Canadians.”He added: “It is in the best interests of the office and its important work for me to step away.”His resignation came a week after Ms. Wilson-Raybould resigned from the Trudeau cabinet. In January, she had been moved from the post of justice minister to minister of veteran’s affairs, a switch widely seen as a demotion.Rather than calming the growing political storm around Mr. Trudeau, Mr. Butts’s resignation only seemed to intensify it.“It opens up another front,” said Patrick Gossage, who was press secretary to Pierre Elliott Trudeau, the former prime minister and Justin Trudeau’s father. “It raises more questions than it answers. Did he really have nothing to do with making Jody Wilson-Raybould feel she wasn’t wanted? I don’t think it solves anything.”[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]Mr. Butts’s absence will leave a significant void in Mr. Trudeau’s leadership and campaign team just eight months before an election. The son of a coal miner from Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, Mr. Butts met Mr. Trudeau at the debating club at McGill University in Montreal and the two have remained friends ever since.After working as a senior aide in a Liberal provincial government in Ontario, Mr. Butts was among a small group who brought Mr. Trudeau, a teacher, into politics and taught him its craft. Mr. Butts was a key player in the successful election campaign in 2015 that defied expectations by raising the Liberals from third place in polls to victory, making Mr. Trudeau prime minister.Since then, Mr. Butts has acted as Mr. Trudeau’s principal secretary and was widely viewed as the most powerful player within the prime minister’s office. He was known for aggressively challenging critics of the government on Twitter.Mr. Gossage said the loss of Mr. Butts’s guidance is a significant blow for Mr. Trudeau and the Liberal Party.“The last year before an election, you don’t leave your boss behind,” Mr. Gossage said.The allegations of government interference in the criminal case first surfaced in a Globe and Mail article that cited anonymous sources. According to the newspaper, the prime minister and his staff pushed Ms. Wilson-Raybould to cut a deal for the company, SNC-Lavalin. A Montreal-based engineering and construction firm, SNC-Lavalin was accused of paying multimillion bribes to secure contracts in Libya when that country was ruled by the dictator Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.A criminal conviction would bar the company, which has about 52,000 employees worldwide, from working for the government of Canada for 10 years. It was feared that could harm SNC-Lavalin financially or leave it vulnerable to a foreign takeover.Mr. Trudeau’s office confirmed last week that Ms. Wilson-Raybould brought the case up in a conversation with Mr. Butts, but declined to offer any details about what was said.In the end federal prosecutors, who in Canada’s system are supposed to be independent of politicians, decided to continue to prosecute the company rather than seek a settlement under a new law introduced by Mr. Trudeau’s government last March. That measure allows companies to pay a substantial fine and show that they have resolved their ethics issues to avoid a criminal conviction. Two successive premiers in Quebec have called for such a deal to be struck.Last week, the episode went from involving only anonymous allegations to a major political challenge when the federal ethics commissioner, Mario Dion, said he would investigate the prime minister’s actions.Since her resignation, Ms. Wilson-Raybould has neither said anything about the affair nor offered an explanation for why she left the government. Pointing to her demotion, then sudden departure, opposition politicians have charged, without offering any proof, that she was being punished for not yielding on the SNC-Lavalin case.In his resignation letter, Mr. Butts noted that he had encouraged Ms. Wilson-Raybould, a former prosecutor and Indigenous leader from British Columbia, to enter politics.“From my perspective our relationship has always been defined by mutual respect, candor and an honest desire to work together,” he wrote.Follow Ian Austen on Twittter: @ianrausten.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Isabella Grullón PazFrom Michael Cohen’s testimony to the Trump-Kim Jong-un summit, it’s been a busy week in American politics. Here are some of the biggest stories you might have missed (and some links if you’d like to read further).___________________In a daylong hearing before the House Oversight and Reform Committee on Wednesday, Michael D. Cohen, President Trump’s former personal lawyer, offered a damning portrayal of life inside the president’s orbit — where, he said, advisers sacrifice integrity for proximity to power.Accusations by Mr. Cohen, such as the president’s alleged knowledge of the hacked Democratic emails released by WikiLeaks, could create new legal issues for Mr. Trump. His testimony also revived questions about whether the president broke the law by failing to disclose that he had footed the bill for a hush payment to a pornographic film actress.Internal memos revealed Thursday show that Mr. Trump ordered his chief of staff to grant Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser, a top-secret security clearance last year, overruling concerns from intelligence officials. The memos contradict previous statements made by the president, who said he had no role in Mr. Kushner’s clearance.In the wake of the revelation about Mr. Kushner’s clearance, two House committees are seeking documents and interviews with officials.Additional Reading• Washington Official Subpoenas Trump Inaugural Committee• Cohen Testimony Is a Test for Both Parties in the Year Ahead• Trump vs. Cohen: The Breakup of a New York RelationshipFar away from Capitol Hill and Mr. Cohen’s testimony, Mr. Trump was in Hanoi, Vietnam, meeting with the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un for the second time. It was the latest example of big moments for Mr. Trump on the world stage being overshadowed by events at home.The talks with Mr. Kim were cut short on Thursday, without the hoped-for agreement on first steps toward denuclearizing North Korea. Mr. Trump had bet that his self-described skills as a dealmaker would be enough to persuade the North to renounce its nuclear weapons program; in failing, he laid bare the risks of one-to-one diplomacy.Mr. Trump delayed his deadline to increase tariffs on Chinese goods on Sunday, as his administration kept trying to persuade China to make significant structural changes to its economy. That decision could become a political liability in 2020.On Thursday, the president said his administration was “well on our way to doing something special” with China, but his top economic advisers have sent a series of conflicting messages about the trade talks’ status.Additional Reading• Defender of World Order or Trump Mouthpiece? Pompeo Is Tested by North Korea, Iran and U.S. Allies• On Foreign Trips, Pence Steps Out of Trump’s Shadow but Always Stays on Message• Cozy Up to U.S., Vietnam Tells North Korea. Look What It Did for Us.The House voted on Tuesday to block Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the Mexican border, seeking to stop the diversion of funds to his wall. The resolution will now be taken up by the Senate, where it is one vote short of passage.Gun control once badly divided the Democratic Party. But on Wednesday, the Democrat-controlled House voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers, including at gun shows and on the internet. It was the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in decades. Here’s more about the vote and a look at what could come next.More than 100 House Democrats rallied around a “Medicare for all” bill that would eliminate most private health insurance. But the proposal, which was light on details, highlighted a new split within the party.The chairman of the House Intelligence Committee said Democrats were prepared to go to court to force the release of the final report from the special counsel if it is not made public.Additional Reading• In Conservative Districts, Democrats Have to Answer for Party’s Left Wing• Health Care and Insurance Industries Mobilize to Kill ‘Medicare for All’• G.O.P. Tries to Hold Down Defections Before Vote to Block Trump’s Emergency• Who is Konstantin Kilimnik, and what did he and Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, discuss in 2016? Here’s the story behind the Russian operative who’s central to the special counsel’s investigation.• Labor Secretary R. Alexander Acosta is facing rising pressure over the lenient plea bargain that he helped negotiate with Jeffrey Epstein, a wealthy Trump acquaintance accused of trafficking children for sex.• A woman who worked on Mr. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign sued him in federal court on Monday, saying that he forcibly kissed her at a campaign event in Florida months before the election.• Mark Harris, the North Carolina Republican whose bid for the state’s Ninth Congressional District seat collapsed after a fraud-tainted voter-turnout effort, said he would not run in a new election.• Virginia’s first lady, Pam Northam, apologized for handing raw cotton to black children touring the governor’s mansion and asking them to imagine being enslaved and having to pick the crop._____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New YorkIs there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa LererWith a record number of female candidates running for president, some male Democratic contenders are signaling that a woman will be on their 2020 ticket — just not at the top.Two male candidates, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey and Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman, suggested this weekend that they would pick a woman as their vice president if they won the nomination.“It would be very difficult not to select a woman, with so many extraordinary women who are running right now,” Mr. O’Rourke told reporters in Iowa on Saturday night. But, he noted, “first, I would have to win, and this is as open as it’s ever been.”[Join the conversation around the 2020 election with our newsletter, On Politics With Lisa Lerer.] The packed Democratic field includes several prominent women, with Senators Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris and Amy Klobuchar all running competitively.Announcing the demographic profile of a potential vice-presidential pick is highly unusual, especially more than 10 months before the first round of voting takes place in Iowa. The comments reflect a desire by male candidates to show that they are not taking female voters for granted, particularly as so many women mount bids of their own for the nomination.Mr. Booker told voters in New Hampshire that he was “confident” the party would “make history” with their nominee.“No matter what — I’m looking you in the eye and saying this — there will be a woman on the ticket,” he said. “I don’t know if it’s in the vice president’s position or the president’s position, but if I have my way, there will be a woman on the ticket.”Issues of race and gender have already emerged as a central theme of the Democratic primary race, as the party tries to position itself as a home for minority and female voters energized by their opposition to President Trump.[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]Last year, female activists and a record number of female candidates powered much of the party’s gains in the midterm elections. Those gains, paired with the political impact of the #MeToo movement, gave rise to a vocal group of Democratic women eager to call out what they see as double standards in the perception of the candidates.Navigating their party’s new gender dynamics has not been seamless for some of the male candidates.Mr. O’Rourke, who entered the race on Thursday, has already faced backlash for joking that his wife has been raising their three young kids “sometimes with my help.” On a podcast this weekend, he promised not to repeat the comment and said he acknowledged “the truth of the criticism that I have enjoyed white privilege.”All the women in the 2020 race have touted their gender as a competitive advantage in a crowded field, marking a break from the party’s only other competitive female nominee, Hillary Clinton, who often struggled to publicly embrace her historic role.“I wasn’t born to run for office, just because growing up in the ’70s, in the middle of the country, I don’t think many people thought a girl could be president,” said Ms. Klobuchar, in an interview with NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday.Her comments were a reference to Mr. O’Rourke’s remark in a Vanity Fair interview that he was “born to be in” the race.But Ms. Gillibrand, who released a video on Sunday officially announcing her presidential bid, has leaned most deeply into a woman-centric message, making running as a woman, for women, a central theme of her candidacy.Representatives for Ms. Harris and Ms. Warren declined to comment on Mr. Booker’s and Mr. O’Rourke’s remarks.Nick Corasaniti and Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Isabel KershnerJERUSALEM — Israelis were confronted with a rude new reality on Friday: a prime minister running for re-election while facing indictment for corruption.While there were hints that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu could be losing support, his right-wing allies appeared to be sticking with him and no one was foolish enough to write off a politician who still retains a strong base and has shown Houdini-like skill in escaping seemingly impossible jams before.The only certainty was that Israel was in for a wild ride between now and the April 9 ballot, with analysts predicting that the country’s political scene — loud, fractious and heated at the best of times — would become only more divisive as Mr. Netanyahu, who is seeking a fourth consecutive term, fights for his political life.“He splits the nation,” said Yehuda Ben Meir, an expert in public opinion at the Institute for National Security Studies in Tel Aviv. “His are the politics of polarization and exaggeration. If he got any more polarizing he’d fall off the planet.”[The cases against Mr. Netanyahu, explained.]Mr. Netanyahu, who has dominated the Israeli political scene for a decade, faces a serious challenge from a newcomer, Benny Gantz, a retired military chief and leader of the new, centrist Blue and White party.After the announcement by the attorney general, Avichai Mandelblit, on Thursday that he intends to indict Mr. Netanyahu on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust, polls have pointed to a growing shift away from Mr. Netanyahu and his conservative Likud party and toward Mr. Gantz, whose military record could inoculate him against Mr. Netanyahu’s strongest line of attack, that he is the only one who can protect Israel’s security.Israel Hayom, the free newspaper sympathetic to Mr. Netanyahu and financed by Sheldon Adelson, the American casino billionaire and a longtime patron, buried its own poll in the Friday edition on page 19, after it put Blue and White a hefty nine seats ahead of Likud.If anything, experts said, Israel Hayom’s polls have tended to be skewed in Mr. Netanyahu’s favor.Still, it may be premature to measure the political effect of the attorney general’s announcement.“It’s too early for the polls to matter,” Mr. Ben Meir said. “It takes time for people to react.”The details of three separate, but interconnected, corruption cases in which Mr. Netanyahu is a suspect were spread over a 57-page document released by the Justice Ministry on Thursday.It included a chart with a monthly breakdown of the hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of cigars and Champagne supplied to the Netanyahus by a Hollywood producer and a millionaire businessman; back-room dealings with the publisher of a rival newspaper, Yediot Ahronot; and a dinner with an Israeli telecommunications mogul that led to a yearslong “give and take” relationship, as Mr. Mandelblit put it, with Mr. Netanyahu allegedly exchanging lucrative regulatory favors for positive coverage.But a deluge of leaks from the investigations over the past few months meant that for most Israelis, there was little shock value in the official revelations.Mr. Netanyahu, who denies any wrongdoing, went about his business as usual on Friday, hosting the president of Liberia, a former professional soccer player. “I told him that the next time he came we might play some football,” a seemingly jovial and relaxed Mr. Netanyahu said in a video.He also kept up his political invective, urging his supporters on Twitter, “Do not let the witch hunt against me confuse you.” Returning to a familiar theme, he denounced Mr. Gantz and his party as the “weak left” and said it would have to rely on the support of Arab parties to prevent a right-wing coalition.In the morning, public radio moved on from the investigations to discuss the problem of traumatized Israeli war veterans. People shopped for the sabbath.There was no reason to panic with the election still nearly 40 days off.“Forty days in an election season is the equivalent of two years in normal time,” wrote Amit Segal, an Israeli political analyst, in his weekly column in Friday’s Yediot Ahronot newspaper. “Until then, the agenda should change several times.”“No one’s jaw dropped yesterday,” he added, quoting the words of a popular Israeli song, “Lovers will love, haters will hate.”Opposition leaders have called on Mr. Netanyahu to resign, and so far, his right-wing allies appeared to still see him as their best bet to return to government. Most of his current coalition partners, and even a would-be successor within his Likud party, issued statements of support, saying the prime minister, like anybody else, deserved to be treated as innocent until proven guilty.Ayelet Frish, a former strategic consultant for Shimon Peres, said there was a perceptible shift among some of the “soft right” away from Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud to other parties. Whether they return home by April, she said, largely depends on Mr. Netanyahu.“Netanyahu is a champion at the negative campaign,” she said, “but it takes time to penetrate. We will have to wait until a minute before the elections.”In the 2015 election, Mr. Netanyahu was widely believed to have ensured a last-minute victory by scaring Jewish voters with a video demonizing Arab voters, saying left-wingers were busing them to the voting booths “in droves.” Palestinian-Arab citizens make up more than 20 percent of Israel’s population.The announcement on Thursday was an interim step in the prosecution. Mr. Netanyahu is now entitled to a hearing to challenge the charges before a formal indictment can be handed down.He insists that the hearing could overturn the attorney general’s decision and quash the cases against him, but his lawyers will need at least six months to prepare, experts say, and it is unlikely to take place before the election.Israeli criminal lawyers say that while the hearings often end in reduced charges or closed cases, that was unlikely in Mr. Netanyahu’s case. The investigation was closely supervised by the highest legal authorities and Mr. Mandelblit’s charges were conservative. He recommended the most serious charge, bribery, in only one case, while the state attorney’s office recommended bribery charges in all three.That makes a formal indictment all but certain. Whether Mr. Netanyahu will still be prime minister by then is not.OpinionBret StephensAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]As Beto O’Rourke moves closer to a presidential run, the unconventional way he’s spent the four months since losing his Senate bid (Metallica concerts! Road trips! Viral Instagrams!) is raising some concerns in the Democratic Party, as I wrote about today with my colleague Matt Flegenheimer.But there’s another, perhaps slightly less-covered piece of Mr. O’Rourke’s rollout story: Female Democratic strategists have grown increasingly frustrated as they’ve watched Mr. O’Rourke jump on his single-speed bike, read his emotional posts from his road trip and seen him slip into the premiere of a documentary about his Senate campaign.Imagine, they say, if Beto were Betsy. What would the reception have been if a female candidate left her three small children home and spent several weeks traveling the country, posting stream-of-consciousness diary entries? Or if she chose to forgo a Senate race that would provide a greater opportunity for victory?In quiet and not-so-quiet complaints, Democratic strategists argue that the relatively positive reception to Mr. O’Rourke’s untraditional approach is evidence, yet again, of the deep double standard female candidates face. While his defenders argue that Mr. O’Rourke can’t be blamed for gender dynamics he didn’t create, his critics say he is being given a benefit of the doubt that wouldn’t be extended to a woman or a candidate of color.“Maybe I’d been hoping for some kind of connection that day and hadn’t found it,” he wrote in one of those diary posts, from Ulysses, Kan. “I called Amy. Kids were in the car, she was a little distracted, we didn’t connect either. Maybe you could meet people at a bar she said as we hung up.”Try to picture Senators Elizabeth Warren or Kamala Harris publishing those words. The female presidential candidates, it’s probably worth noting, all pursued a highly conventional approach, jumping into the race early, rolling out policy plans and hosting events in key primary states.But the contrast that’s most often given is Stacey Abrams, whose near-miss bid for governor of Georgia earned a higher percentage of the vote than Mr. O’Rourke’s run in Texas, but who isn’t being discussed in the same way as a viable presidential candidate. She’s under immense pressure to pursue a Senate race in 2020. (Today, her political adviser pushed back on the idea that she has ruled out a presidential bid.)“If a woman was presented with a similar choice: Do that less ambitious but better for the party thing, versus more ambitious but longer shot thing, I don’t see people being super understanding when she takes the latter,” said Jess McIntosh, a Democratic strategist and former Hillary Clinton aide.We don’t know whether that sense of a free pass will translate beyond the small group of Democrats following every turn of the 2020 race. Or whether it will persist once Mr. O’Rourke actually starts, well, running. Much of that will probably be tied to how successful he is as a candidate.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________Given that we’re talking about double standards today, I highly recommend this tongue-in-cheek take on Senator Sherrod Brown’s “likability issue” by HuffPost’s Jennifer Bendery.”Have you heard the guy’s voice? It’s gravelly. It’s garbled. His Senate floor speeches sound like someone just passed the mic to Oscar the Grouch. And then there’s his fashion sense. Brown wears rumpled suits, sometimes with a tie and sometimes without.”And Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, who has put gender front and center in her campaign, may face her own #MeToo issue: Politico details the story of a former aide who resigned in protest of how Ms. Gillibrand and her office handled her sexual harassment claims.____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________The field of Democratic candidates is in constant flux these days, and it’s kind of tedious to type it all out every time someone new jumps in the race. So here’s a rundown of everyone who has recently said that they’re running, sitting it out or still thinking it over, organized by emoji.Jay Inslee, governor of WashingtonJohn Hickenlooper, former governor of ColoradoMichael Bloomberg, former mayor of New YorkHillary Clinton, former senator and presidential candidateEric Holder, former attorney generalSherrod Brown, senator from OhioJeff Merkley, senator from OregonBeto O’Rourke, former congressman from TexasJoe Biden, former vice presidentMichael Bennet, senator from ColoradoSteve Bullock, governor of MontanaStacey Abrams, former Georgia state represenatative____________________This is The Soapbox, a forum for you to share your thoughts with us and your fellow On Politics readers.Last week’s story on the statements made by Representative Ilhan Omar, and the Democrats’ response to them, clearly resonated with readers. We got over 100 emails, covering views on all sides of the issue and coming from across the country (and even a few from around the globe). Some readers felt that Ms. Omar’s statements, regardless of possible anti-Semitism, addressed an issue that is in dire need of serious political debate.Jean Davis, Washington State:I am horrified that the moderate, older Dems wanted to rebuke Ms. Omar. Her comments were perhaps ill-advised, but why should she be singled out when comments made by other public figures are much more ugly and yet are let slide?People of different generations were raised with completely differing views of Israel — my generation, the baby boomers, were taught to revere the strong new state of Israel, while people now in their 20s and 30s see the damage Israel is causing the Palestinians. Ms. Omar is of that generation and also an immigrant, and must be given some slack. Above all her First Amendment rights must NOT be trampled by Democrats!Malcolm Burnstein, California:Here is an 85-year-old Jew who strongly supports Ms. Omar, and who agrees with her that the Israeli and Aipac policies are racist and anti-Arab. If Aipac was not so cash heavy, Congress would judge its policy on the merits, and it would have little weight; and, likewise, Israeli discriminatory policy towards its Arab citizens and neighbors would merit criticism and not acceptance. At my age I witnessed the Nazi policy of murder toward Jews and I had hoped that the Jewish state would know, as no one else, how wrong and muddle headed those policies were. Alas, the Jewish state seems to have learned little from the far-to-recent past.Many others felt that Ms. Omar’s statements were plainly anti-Semitic, and that the Democratic reaction was not strong enough.Rachel Reiss, New York:Passing a resolution condemning “all hate” in response to a specific instance of pointed anti-Semitism, especially in the midst of an undeniable and disturbing upswing in anti-Semitic attacks both globally and nationally, is like passing a resolution that “all lives matter” in response to police violence against black men; it says the exact opposite of what it purports to say.David Friedland, Nevada:As a lifelong Democrat, I was upset at Ilhan Omar’s blatantly anti-Semitic, age-old canard about Jewish people having loyalty to another country. And I am equally upset at my party cowering to an increasingly tyrannical minority and failing to pass a specific resolution to a specific comment.Does not Congresswoman Omar know about Goebbels and his usage of propaganda such as “the insidious international Jewish financiers,” or the danger of “Jewish penetration of law, medicine, property, and the arts.” Has she not studied history and the power of the spoken word on a national platform?No bigotry should ever come close to being tolerated. Nor should hesitancy in unequivocally condemning a specific outburst of bigotry such as displayed by Congresswoman Omar ever be tolerated as well.And then there were those whose concerns were not the content of Ms. Omar’s statements, but the political fallout that they could have.Dave Stoller, Arizona:I applaud the enthusiasm of the congressional “newbies.” However, I say to each of them, be guided by this reality: you don’t know everything, you can’t do everything, especially all at once. You are the new kids on the block. You each need to learn how to be an effective legislator, how to communicate, how to work with other legislators, even those with whom you often disagree. Succeeding in Congress may require compromise, even with those you don’t like.Arnie Serota, Hawaii:The Democrats need to get their act together and stop infighting on divisive issues. The number one theme, for the time being, should be the defeat of Donald Trump and the far right.If you want to share your thoughts, send us an email: onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________• With a tough election looming for Benjamin Netanyahu, The Times digs into the mutually beneficial “feedback loop” between him and President Trump.• Silicon Valley searches for an IRL monument of its own.• “No trash is as glorious as Mardi Gras trash.” Bloomberg Businessweek on what, exactly, happens to all those beads.____________________Last week, President Trump called Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, “Tim Apple.” It seemed like a lighthearted gaffe, the internet chuckled for a moment, then everyone moved on. Well, apparently not everyone._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byHow religion has come to dominate our politics.By Eka KurniawanMr. Kurniawan is an Indonesian novelist.JAKARTA, Indonesia — When Joko Widodo, the incumbent president of Indonesia, last year chose Ma’ruf Amin as his running mate for the general election this April, it became clear that Indonesian politics is now backed into a corner. Mr. Ma’ruf is an Islamic cleric and scholar, and Mr. Joko was perhaps hoping to dampen attacks from conservative and radical Islamic groups that have called him anti-Islam (even though he is Muslim himself). Instead, he has built a Trojan horse for his opponents outside the walls of his own city.The presidential race, in which Mr. Joko is again facing  Prabowo Subianto, a ex-army general and former son-in-law of the dictator Suharto, looks like a replay of the 2014 contest. Back then, Mr. Joko won by a small margin, on a platform promising a grand maritime strategy for Indonesia and to revitalize the economy partly through major infrastructure projects. This year, it seems, the decisive issue will be the candidates’ professed commitment to Islam.Mr. Joko and Mr. Prabowo are scheduled to meet for their second debate on Feb. 17, and the agenda will focus on natural resources, infrastructure and the environment. But soon enough, the main issue of this election — religion — will return to the fore.In the last four years, Mr. Joko has offered a modicum of hope to progressive and pro-democratic groups. He is not an ideal figure and has been slow in dealing with human rights issues like military violence against civilians. But there is no other choice. With opposition parties — the Great Indonesia Movement Party, the National Mandate Party (PAN), the Prosperous Justice Party — increasingly supported by conservatives and radicals, including some who wish for the Suharto family’s return to power, any hope for a more democratic society has been placed on Mr. Joko’s shoulders.Polarization has deepened since Jakarta’s gubernatorial election two years ago. Mr. Joko supported the incumbent Basuki Tjahaja Purnama against Anies Baswedan, a former education minister of Arab descent. Mr. Basuki, being of Chinese and Christian heritage, became an easy target for a campaign based on ethnic and religious differences. Mr. Basuki wasn’t just defeated in the election; Mr. Anies’s supporters also succeeded in sending Mr. Basuki to prison on charges of blasphemy against Islam. (He was released only last month.)Mr. Prabowo and the rest of the opposition evidently learned a lot from Mr. Basuki’s downfall. In 2014, they ran an antiquated campaign based on the supposed resurgence of communism and the Indonesian Communist Party, and failed. The Jakarta election has taught them that tapping Muslim values is an effective way to galvanize popular support.Rally Alumni 212, one of the movements behind the campaign that put Mr. Basuki in jail, and the Islamic Defenders Front, an Islamist pressure group that sometimes acts as a sort of Islamic morality police, held the forum of Islamic scholars that recommended Mr. Prabowo as a presidential candidate. But these religious conservatives don’t much care that Mr. Prabowo doesn’t actually have a strong Muslim background: “We are pretty laid back about religion,” he has said, referring to his multidenominational family. They care that he is the only viable competition to Mr. Joko and that he welcomes their support. The strategy of attacking Mr. Joko by manipulating religious sentiment has begun in earnest. Unlike Mr. Basuki, he is Muslim — but that doesn’t mean religion can’t be used against him, too. The harshest accusation he has faced so far is that his policies are anti-Islam or against the ulema, Muslim scholars.Here is one example of that, supposedly: The Joko government’s decision to dissolve Hizbut Tahrir Indonesia, a pan-Islamist political organization that supports the creation of a worldwide caliphate. Another purported sign of the government’s anti-Islam bend is a subpoena that was issued two years ago against Rizieq Shihab, an imam from the Islamic Defenders Front, whom the police suspected of sexting and violating anti-pornography laws.The voices of Islamic groups have seemed amplified of late, but, to be honest, they have been sounding for quite a long time, both in politics and throughout society. The 1998 Reformasi movement, which ended Suharto’s 32-year dictatorship and brought democratization, didn’t just allow for political liberalization; it also opened up a space for Islamic political ideas.The Prosperous Justice Party, formerly known as the Justice Party, was born from on-campus spiritual groups, but it now openly promotes the application of Islamic law. PAN, at first an inclusive nationalist party, has moved closer to conservative Islamist groups. Amien Rais, one of PAN’s founders, doesn’t hesitate to call it “the party of Allah” — and to call Mr. Joko’s Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle “the devil’s party.”In the late 1990s, when you went to a public school, you rarely came across a female student or teacher who was wearing a head scarf; today, it’s the opposite. Same for employees in government offices. Of course, this doesn’t mean that these women necessarily support the political opposition, and it can’t be assumed that they are conservative, much less radical. The head scarf might be a simple expression of individual piety. Still, the trend can’t be ignored either.Regional ordinances to accommodate Shariah law have multiplied, the result of the relative autonomy of some regions. The specifics vary, ranging from the call for city officials to wear Muslim dress to the ban on the sale, distribution and consumption of alcohol. More absurd — and more frightening — are the movements for underage marriage and against vaccines. Both are quite shrill, and both use religious explanations to justify their stances: Early marriage prevents adultery, the popular cleric Ustaz Arifin Ilham has said, and according to one fatwa, vaccines are not halal. Idioms like “hijrah” — meaning to improve one’s life by conforming to Islam — are heard more and more frequently.With the Islamization of Indonesian society now evidently being mobilized toward political ends, Mr. Joko must proceed with caution. Yet he may have gone too far.To give a good impression to Muslim voters, Mr. Joko has been presenting himself as a pious leader who worships diligently. He has even become a prayer imam and makes frequent visits to Islamic boarding schools. He has also closed his eyes and ears to certain cases brought on religious grounds, knowing that any statement could inflame grass-roots Muslims.Mr. Joko didn’t stand up for Mr. Basuki when he was tried and then imprisoned. He chose to stay silent when a woman in Medan, in northern Sumatra, was charged with blasphemy for complaining about the volume of the call to prayer. Nor did he make any comment in a case involving the forced removal of a cross-shaped headstone from a cemetery in Yogyakarta, in central Java. Last month, Mr. Joko even considered granting an early release from prison to the radical cleric Abu Bakar Bashir, who was convicted of terrorism. (Mr. Bashir wasn’t freed in the end because he refused to pledge allegiance to the state.)Mr. Joko should be upholding moderate politics by standing up to the opposition, conservatives and radicals who seek to manipulate religious sentiment; that’s what his supporters are hoping from him. Instead, he has agreed to walk across a tightrope held up by his political rivals. This has culminated in his choice of Mr. Ma’ruf for running mate — who just as easily could have run with the opposition.Mr. Ma’ruf heads the Indonesia Ulema Council, the national clerical body that issued the fatwa calling Mr. Basuki a blasphemer, and he gave incriminating testimony against Mr. Basuki in court. He isn’t just conservative; he is intolerant. He forbids the exchange of Christmas greetings. He rejects the Ahmadiyya, an alternative Islamic sect. He condemns L.G.B.T. activities. He wants to limit houses of worship for non-Muslims.Mr. Joko might remain in power, but we don’t have to wait until April to find out the real outcome of this race. No matter who ends up being president, conservative Islamic groups, backed by radical groups, will win — have already won — the election.Eka Kurniawan is the author of “Vengeance Is Mine, All Others Pay Cash,” “Beauty is a Wound” and “Man Tiger.” This essay was translated from the Bahasa Indonesia by Annie Tucker.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misidentified the location of the city of Yogyakarta. It is in central Java, not eastern Java.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Shane GoldmacherHillary Clinton, the former secretary of state and first lady who lost the White House to Donald J. Trump in 2016, said officially on Monday what has been unofficially clear for months: She is not running for president again in 2020.“I’m not running,” Mrs. Clinton told a New York City television station, News 12. “But I’m going to keep on working and speaking and standing up for what I believe.”Mrs. Clinton, the first woman to win a major-party nomination for president, remains a complicated figure for the Democratic Party as both a trailblazing female leader and also the candidate who was defeated by Mr. Trump.Ahead of the 2020 election, she has been holding private meetings with many of the current and potential presidential candidates, including Senator Kamala Harris and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., as they sought counsel from her even before she formally ruled out another run.[Who’s in, who’s out and who’s thinking about it. Check out our presidential candidate tracker.]Four female senators — Ms. Harris, Kirsten Gillibrand, Amy Klobuchar and Elizabeth Warren — and one congresswoman, Tulsi Gabbard, have already jumped into the Democratic primary campaign. The glut of female candidates is widely seen as an outgrowth of Mrs. Clinton’s own nomination in 2016.Mrs. Clinton, 71, is still younger than some Democratic candidates who are either running (such as Senator Bernie Sanders, who is 77) or considering runs (Mr. Biden, 76, and the former New York City mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, 77). But many in the crowded field of more than a dozen candidates are already pushing to install a younger generation of leadership for the party.In the television interview, Mrs. Clinton signaled that she planned to remain a presence on the political scene.“I want to be sure that people understand I’m going to keep speaking out,” she said. “I’m not going anywhere.”But she laughed off the idea of running for any other political office, such as New York governor or mayor, in the future. “Oh, I don’t think so,” she said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Gene Palumbo and Elisabeth MalkinSAN SALVADOR — Salvadorans elected Nayib Bukele, the media-savvy former mayor of the capital, as their next president on Sunday, delivering a sharp rebuke to the two parties that emerged from the country’s brutal civil war in the 1980s and have held power ever since.The dramatic win for Mr. Bukele, 37, who was running as an outsider, underscores the deep discredit into which the country’s traditional parties have fallen. Voters appeared to be willing to gamble on a relative newcomer to confront the country’s poverty and violence, shutting out the right- and left-wing parties that have dominated Salvadoran politics for three decades.Mr. Bukele won almost 54 percent of the vote in preliminary results, the electoral board said, beating out Carlos Calleja, a supermarket executive who was the conservative Arena Party candidate. Hugo Martínez, a former foreign minister who ran for the governing Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front, or F.M.L.N., saw many of his party’s voters defect to Mr. Bukele and came in a distant third.“Today we have turned the page on the postwar period,” Mr. Bukele said, appearing in blue jeans and his trademark leather jacket to declare victory.Attacks from both the left and the right seemed to have little effect on Mr. Bukele’s popularity, which was driven by a social media campaign portraying him as a reformer willing to take on the ossified political establishment.The conservative Nationalist Republican Alliance, known as Arena, was founded in 1981 by the extreme-right leader Roberto D’Aubuisson, who was accused of organizing death squads during the civil war. During its two decades in government, Arena recast itself as a business-friendly party, although it has never disowned its founder.The F.M.L.N. is the party of the leftist guerrillas who put down their arms after peace accords were signed in 1992 and won the presidency in 2009. Although poverty rates have fallen somewhat during the past decade, two successive F.M.L.N. governments have struggled to deal with soaring street gang violence.Mr. Bukele held out the promise of change after 30 years, said Roberto Cañas, a political scientist at José Simeón Cañas Central American University.“It isn’t for his program, nor for his speeches,” Mr. Cañas said. “It is because they are tired, angry, fed up with corruption, sick of broken promises — and what they see in him is that he does not represent all that.”Analysts said the three main candidates’ proposals differed little, but Mr. Bukele was able to set himself apart on the issue of corruption, which has roiled politics across Latin America and paved the way for candidates promising to combat it.In El Salvador, both traditional parties made for easy targets.Former President Tony Saca, an Arena politician, is serving a 10-year prison sentence after he pleaded guilty last year to charges of embezzlement and money laundering in the diversion of more than $300 million in public funds.Mauricio Funes, a former television broadcaster who was the F.M.L.N.’s first president, is accused of embezzling $351 million. In 2016, he fled to Nicaragua, which has granted him asylum.“In the popular imagination, the left was decent even though it was not a good administrator,” said Salvador Samayoa, a former F.M.L.N. leader who is now an independent consultant. The Funes case, he said, led to the perception that the party was neither.Mr. Bukele made attacks on corruption a centerpiece of his campaign, running on the slogans “Give us back what was stolen” and “There is enough money when nobody steals it.”He has proposed that El Salvador adopt a version of the international anticorruption commission that has been active in neighboring Guatemala for more than a decade, although he has offered few details.Mr. Bukele’s outsider status is relatively new. He was mayor of San Salvador for the F.M.L.N. until he was expelled from the party in 2017 over his outspoken criticism of it. Looking for a vehicle for his campaign, he joined forces with a small right-wing party, the Grand Alliance for National Unity, known as Gana.He has been carefully cultivating his social media presence since the beginning of his political career six years ago, said Amparo Marroquín, a professor of communication and culture at the Central American University.The videos on Mr. Bukele’s Facebook page alternate between packaged clips showing him speaking before large crowds and awkward appeals from his living room, where he sits on an off-white sofa in front of a giant abstract painting.He spent little time traveling the country, did not turn up for candidate debates and avoided interviews with journalists who might challenge him, leading critics to suggest that he was intolerant.“There is a perception of a person who is arrogant, authoritarian, who doesn’t expose himself to dialogue,” said Alvaro Artiga, a political science professor at the Central American University.As mayor of San Salvador, Mr. Bukele helped redevelop the historic center, sponsor a children’s orchestra and build a library, all popular projects among voters. But he avoided taking on projects that might have entailed a political cost, such as controlling the city’s snarled traffic or introducing a recycling program, Ms. Marroquín said.As a candidate, he proposed grand infrastructure projects, including a train along the Pacific Coast and a new airport, without explaining how they would be paid for.Mr. Calleja, 42, his Arena opponent, is an executive in his family-owned supermarket chain, though he has never held elective office. He promised to create 300,000 jobs, although he was vague as to how he would pay for his proposals.All of the candidates said they wanted to maintain good relations with the United States, despite friction over El Salvador’s severing of diplomatic ties to Taiwan in favor of China and the Trump administration’s efforts to end a program that allows 250,000 Salvadorans to live legally in the United States.Beyond issues of corruption and the economy, security concerns dominated the race. Homicide rates have declined from their peak in 2015, but El Salvador remains one of the most violent countries in the world outside war zones. The candidates said they would emphasize prevention programs in contrast to the current government’s tactics, which have focused more on cracking down on street gangs.Analysts say those proposals indicate a recognition that the gangs have become political forces, able to command votes and use violence for political gain. The two main parties, as well as Mr. Bukele, have negotiated with the gangs.Voters want to hear candidates take a tough stand against the gangs, which are considered the “mother of all evils,” Ms. Marroquín said. But the candidates “have realized that the gangs are an actor that can define an election.”Gene Palumbo reported from San Salvador, and Elisabeth Malkin reported from Mexico City.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan Blinder and Michael WinesRALEIGH, N.C. — Republican politicians across the country have for years railed against the threat of voter fraud. Some have made unproven claims about how rampant it has become in order to pass voter ID laws and open sweeping investigations. The sanctity of the vote, they have said, must be protected at all costs.But when a hard-fought congressional election in North Carolina — in which a Republican candidate appeared to narrowly beat his Democratic opponent — was overturned this week because of election fraud by a Republican political operative, the party was measured, and largely muted, in its response.The state party chairman, Robin Hayes, issued a statement after officials ordered a new election calling the affair “a tremendously difficult situation for all involved.” National Republicans have been mostly mum. President Trump, who has made election fraud one of the hallmarks of his administration, was quiet on Twitter, although on Friday, facing reporters at the Oval Office, he condemned fraud — “all of it, and that includes North Carolina.”Mark Harris, the Republican nominee, had eked out a 905-vote lead over Dan McCready. But the North Carolina Board of Elections refused to certify Mr. Harris as the winner and opened an investigation into irregularities. This week, the five-member board, made up of Republicans and Democrats, convened an evidentiary hearing in Raleigh at which witnesses described a voter-turnout effort that relied on the rogue collection of absentee ballots.In several hours of testimony on Thursday, after his campaign acknowledged that it had withheld damning records from the board, Mr. Harris denied wrongdoing but also appeared to mislead regulators. He then surprised everyone by abandoning his claim to the Ninth Congressional District seat, which covers part of Charlotte and much of southeastern North Carolina.Witnesses detailed how people working for a Harris campaign operative, L. McCrae Dowless Jr., had filled out parts of some absentee ballots and improperly collected others. On Friday, Lorrin Freeman, the district attorney in Wake County, said she could seek charges within weeks against Mr. Dowless and some of the people he hired.“Obviously, it’s within the province of the grand jury as to whether they will return indictments,” Ms. Freeman said. “But do I anticipate there will be a criminal prosecution going forward? I do.”State Republicans, who over the past few years have tightened voting laws and had fought to preserve Mr. Harris’s victory, were far less vociferous in denouncing voter fraud than they have been in the past.That stands in marked contrast to 2016, when the state’s Republicans filed many complaints and claimed for a month that Roy Cooper, the Democrat who was elected governor that year, should not be seated because rampant fraud had enabled his victory. The charge proved baseless.On Friday, State Senator Phil Berger, the president pro tempore of the North Carolina Senate and among the most powerful Republicans in Raleigh, said Mr. Harris should have heeded warnings that Mr. Dowless could not be trusted.“If you failed to take notice of the things that are there to see and the things that you’re hearing that are repeated by people that you ought to trust, I think you deserve a fair amount of criticism,” he said.Mr. Berger, who said he had been surprised by Mr. Harris’s decision to ask the elections board to order a new election, did not say whether Mr. Harris should run again. (In an interview, Mr. McCready said on Friday he would run in the new election, which has not been scheduled.)“I think there was enough going on to create questions, and the results were close enough where we just needed to clean this out and start over,” Mr. Berger said in an interview at the Legislative Building.Mr. Berger, who helped craft a voter ID law that a federal appeals court later said contained provisions that targeted “African-Americans with almost surgical precision,” said that he expected the Ninth District case to lead to new discussions about how to combat fraud in North Carolina.Among Mr. Harris’s supporters, Tami Fitzgerald, the executive director of the North Carolina Values Coalition, a group that works with pastors throughout the state and has close ties to Mr. Harris, would not say whether fraud had taken place in the Ninth District. Instead, she called the board’s unanimous decision a “stolen victory.”A congressional election has not been redone in more than 40 years, and doing so because of fraud is almost unheard of. But there have been ample causes for suspicion — Lyndon B. Johnson’s first Senate victory foremost among them — that illegal votes have been cast for candidates who won.The National Republican Congressional Committee, which organizes and finances the party’s House strategy, used the debacle in North Carolina to demand that Democrats support a national ban on the collection of absentee ballots — a practice that is legal in many states but not in North Carolina.Prosecutors in the Trump administration have been conducting a high-profile investigation in North Carolina for months to find noncitizens who cast illegal ballots, many of them in apparent ignorance of the law. But although the state elections board sent Justice Department officials evidence of absentee-ballot fraud by Mr. Dowless as early as January 2017, they took no action before last November’s House election, and it is unclear whether they are investigating the matter.In Oval Office remarks to reporters on Friday, Mr. Trump condemned voter fraud throughout the country, falsely claiming “they found a million fraudulent votes” in California, and calling the 2018 vote count in Florida a “catastrophe” because vote totals for Republican candidates decreased during recounts.But Mr. Trump said he looked forward to a final report on the disputed election in that state.Indeed, no one has been more vocal about the evils of rigged votes than Mr. Trump, who has repeatedly made the false claim that the 2016 election, in which he lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton, was rife with Democratic fraud.And shortly before the midterms, when Democrats flipped the House, Mr. Trump said on Twitter that “all levels of government and Law Enforcement are watching carefully for VOTER FRAUD.”“Cheat at your own peril,” he warned.The president’s obsession led him to create a presidential commission charged with reining in voter fraud. Led by the Kansas secretary of state at the time, Kris Kobach, the panel sought voter data from all 50 states in an effort to prove the president’s theory of massive illegal voting. But the commission was disbanded after election officials from both parties refused to hand over the data and critics filed multiple lawsuits challenging its conduct.Mr. Kobach, who built his political career on thinly sourced allegations of unchecked illegal voting by noncitizens, said in an interview on Friday that it “is never appropriate for either side of the political debate to be silent about voter fraud.”“People who downplay it say it’s just a small percentage of the total vote, but that argument is meaningless in a close race,” he said.In a column on Breitbart News, Mr. Kobach suggested that the case was a comeuppance for Democrats and voting-rights advocates who oppose the stringent controls on voting that Republicans have enacted for a decade or more. But those restrictions, limiting who can vote and how ballots are cast, only shield elections from cheating by individual voters, a kind of fraud that experts say is exceptionally rare.The party has given scant attention to the more frequent kind of election fraud — the inside-job schemes in which campaigns or election officials manufacture fake votes and destroy their opponents’ real ones — that appears to have taken place in the Ninth District race. Absentee ballots are especially susceptible to manipulation.On Friday, Mr. Berger, the Republican state senator, resisted suggestions that his party had ignored the fraud potential and noted that state law already banned the misconduct outlined at the hearing this week. But he said, “I think it’s clear that something needs to be done if there’s a reasonable thing that can be done.”Alan Blinder reported from Raleigh and Michael Wines reported from Washington. Michael Shear and Alex Burns contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Patrick KingsleyMADRID — A center-left government has fallen. The two-party system has collapsed. The far-right is on the rise. At first glance, Spain seems a lot like other parts of Europe these days. And it is.But the decision on Friday by Spain’s Socialist prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, to call for an early general election in April — the country’s third since late 2015 — is also an echo of deeper, particularly Spanish dynamics at play.A secessionist drive in the prosperous northern region of Catalonia has challenged both the country’s territorial integrity and the core arrangements of the 1978 Constitution for Spain, one of Western Europe’s youngest democracies.The result is the rise of a new nationalism across Spain, which in many ways has yet to fully reconcile the divisions left by the darkest chapters of its recent past, including dictatorship and civil war.Spain’s most volatile fault lines lay just beneath the political surface, turning what might otherwise be just another election into a reminder of unfinished business and the potentially wrenching tasks still ahead.Catalonia is first among them. All roads in Spanish politics seem to lead there.The collapse of Mr. Sánchez’s Socialist government, the rise of a new far-right party called Vox, and the struggles of the center-right Popular Party are partly a function of the Catalan push for an independent state.But even if some of the roots of its current instability are unique, Spain has also proved hardly immune to the spread of populism and nationalism sweeping much of Europe.“What we have in common with the rest of European countries is polarization,” said José Ignacio Torreblanca, the head of the Madrid office of the European Council for Foreign Relations, a political research group.“What is specific about Spain,” Mr. Torreblanca said, “is the Catalan issue.”Mr. Sánchez’s decision on Friday to call for a snap election on April 28 came two days after his minority Socialist government suffered a major defeat in Parliament, when Catalan lawmakers voted with his right-wing opposition to reject his budget plan.That effectively neutered a government that was all but impotent in any case; Mr. Sánchez’s Socialist party held less than a quarter of the seats in Parliament.The frail minority required Mr. Sánchez to seek the support of small regional parties — including Catalan nationalists. They proved useful in helping him unseat his center-right predecessor, Mariano Rajoy, last June, and to pass some legislation.But the Catalans also continued to hold the stability of the government — and the country — hostage to their grievances that Spain siphons off their wealth and that their region’s unique language and culture entitle it to separate.The Catalans abandoned Mr. Sánchez once it became clear he was only interested in piecemeal concessions to Catalonia, instead of allowing them a referendum on secession.The timing of the budget vote on Wednesday did not help, coming as it did just a day after the start of a landmark trial of 12 former Catalan leaders on charges of sedition and rebellion before the Supreme Court in Madrid.The crisis this week was the latest chapter of a Catalan story that hit a crescendo in October 2017, when separatist leaders organized an independence referendum that was declared unconstitutional by Spanish courts.Spain’s Constitution, written three years after the death of the former dictator, Gen. Francisco Franco, already gives considerable autonomy to Catalonia.But it is not enough to placate hard-liners, who wanted Catalans to vote on whether to secede entirely. Such a vote has little support among Spaniards in most of the rest of the country.The impasse reflects how Spain’s relatively young democracy has yet to conclusively address several constitutional issues that, in the eyes of some Spaniards, were never entirely resolved after Franco’s death, said Oriol Bartomeus, a politics professor at the Autonomous University of Barcelona.“Now a new generation, who do not have an emotional attachment to that agreement, or were just children at that time, are raising their hands and saying that the agreement was not good,” Mr. Bartomeus said. “And there is an attempt to rethink it from the left — and a reaction to that from the right.”Catalonia’s unsanctioned referendum provoked Mr. Rajoy, the prime minister at the time, to suspend the Catalan regional parliament. He imposed direct rule from Madrid — deepening Catalan grievances, while also reawakening a long-dormant Spanish nationalism.The result is a far more polarized political environment that is likely to influence the April national election.In regional elections in December, the far-right Vox party emerged holding the balance of power in the parliament of the southern region of Andalusia.Vox’s support was partly fueled by rising illegal migration, but also by anger over Catalonia, Mr. Torreblanca said.“Vox is a party that is typically anti-immigration, but it’s not immigration that is putting wind in their sails,” said Mr. Torreblanca. “What has pushed Vox is the feeling that Rajoy was not hard enough on the Catalan issue.”In a speech on Friday, Mr. Sánchez highlighted the virtues of his social policies, which include raising the minimum wage by more than a fifth, and introducing plans to raise pension payments — but it may not be enough to return him to office.If the national election follows contours similar to the Andalusian poll, Mr. Sánchez’s Socialists may emerge as the largest party in Parliament, but remain outnumbered by the conservative Popular Party, the center-right Ciudadanos and Vox.That would mean one less center-left leader at the table of European politics, at a time when Social Democratic governments are already increasingly rare.The trial of the 12 separatist Catalan leaders is likely to keep the Catalan issue front and center of the campaign.And it will be “something that is going to push right-wing parties,” said Ignacio Molina, a senior analyst at the Elcano Royal Institute, a Madrid-based research group.But unlike in Italy, where far-right euroskeptics help run a populist coalition government, whatever coalition emerges in Spain is likely to be pro-Europe. The Popular Party, Ciudadanos and the Socialists are all broadly in favor of European integration.The danger instead is that a weak and distracted Spanish government, however willing to engage constructively in European affairs, may find itself consumed by domestic disputes.With Italy and Poland now ruled by euroskeptics, and Britain set to leave the bloc altogether, “you need a big country in the south, like Spain, to help decide the future of European integration,” Mr. Molina said. “But that’s going to be much more difficult unless you have a new government that is strong.”As Spain’s economy improved and its unemployment levels fell, the country had been expected to emerge from years of economic crisis and political introspection to become a key player in the reforms of the European currency and European Union migration policy.“But if you have a weak government,” Mr. Molina said, “it’s much more difficult for Spain to shape decisions or implement them.”Raphael Minder and José Bautista contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Astead W. HerndonAlexandra Rojas was shocked. So was Waleed Shahid.The two vocal leaders of Justice Democrats, an advocacy group whose uncompromising style has made it a nuisance among Washington traditionalists, had a meeting request from aides to Senator Elizabeth Warren, who was fresh into her presidential campaign. As Ms. Warren sought to push the party to the left by proposing expansive liberal policy ideas, her team was prepared to seek counsel from organizations that did the same.“They want us in their court,” Ms. Rojas said. “They know that if they want to win, they need to have the support from the grass-roots energy.”Ms. Warren’s willingness to look outside the traditional pool of political aides underscores the extent to which activism and ideology are shaping the makeup of campaign staffs for Democratic candidates, even at the highest levels. Neither Ms. Rojas nor Mr. Shahid received a job offer, but in a crowded field where candidates are looking to stand out, activists fluent in the language of social movements are gaining value as important allies.Julián Castro hired as his campaign manager Maya Rupert, a campaign novice who made her name in organizing with the Center for Reproductive Rights and the National Center for Lesbian Rights. Senator Bernie Sanders has expanded his close-knit group of strategists and tapped Faiz Shakir, the former political director for the American Civil Liberties Union, to run his new-look presidential campaign.As the primary process kicks into full swing, some Democrats are bypassing the kind of experienced Washington “wiseguys” who operated in the caldron of beltway politics — famous strategists like David Axelrod, James Carville and, more recently, Robby Mook. Instead, campaigns are increasingly filling senior positions with a new generation of activist-driven operatives, whose political formation took place in grass-roots movements.The shift has resulted in greater staff diversity than in previous cycles, but it has also influenced strategy, according to campaign officials. New voices are joining with election-cycle veterans to bring fresh ideas and political approaches to the presidential stage.Mr. Castro, for instance, plans to diverge from the traditional early primary state road map in favor of a tour of all 50 states. Ms. Warren has pledged to eschew all private fund-raising, an unheard-of step in presidential politics that was fueled by her campaign’s chief architect, Dan Geldon, who shares Ms. Warren’s distaste for Wall Street and a willingness to take political risks.[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.]Mr. Sanders is emphasizing his personal biography more and engaging in more explicit discussions of racial inequality. Senator Kamala Harris, the California Democrat who has often relied on a trusted group of California advisers, has taken pains to find senior staff members with grass-roots credentials as she attempts to fashion herself as the candidate “for the people.”“The shifts that we’re seeing in the Democratic Party are a lot of folks demanding that their leadership take ideas that have been considered on the fringe and push them to the center,” said Ms. Rupert, Mr. Castro’s campaign manager. “And that’s the way movements operate.”Mr. Castro’s campaign is also paying its interns a $15 minimum wage and said it would support any effort among staff members to form a union. And Mr. Sanders’s campaign announced last week that its staff would become the first presidential campaign work force to be unionized.Kelly Dietrich, the longtime Democratic consultant, said the surge in Democratic voter enthusiasm since President Trump’s election has helped issue-driven activists become more interested in traditional electoral politics. It has also forced campaigns to take new ideas more seriously, he said.[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]“We’re seeing a lot more people across the spectrum, both in terms of diversity and political agenda, step forward and want to make change,” said Mr. Dietrich, who founded a campaign training organization called the National Democratic Training Committee. They are “fed up or scared; they are frustrated and are ready to fight back.”The Democratic Party needs to bring in these activists, Mr. Dietrich said, “so that five years, 10 years, 15 years down the road, this is the norm.”The shift reflects a growing realization among many Democrats that the party’s most fervent energy resides on its left flank. Democrats swept to power in the House in last year’s midterm elections, and the most popular members of the party’s new class are the women of color who pushed the party even further left, empowered by groups including Justice Democrats.Rather than fight that new energy, some 2020 hopefuls have decided to court it. Richard McDaniel, who helped engineer the surprise victory for Senator Doug Jones of Alabama in 2017, joined Ms. Warren’s campaign as field director. Rebecca Pearcey, formerly of the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, an organization that works to elect Democrats to state legislatures, was a surprise choice as Ms. Warren’s national political director.In terms of racial diversity, Ms. Harris has led the way, with 12 senior staff members who are women of color, out of 17 total. That includes Julie Chavez Rodriguez, the activist granddaughter of the labor leader Cesar Chavez. Ms. Rodriguez was instrumental in helping Ms. Harris secure the endorsement of Dolores Huerta, the California labor leader who, along with Mr. Chavez, founded the United Farm Workers.Another member of Ms. Harris’s team is Laphonza Butler, the former president of the Service Employees International Union in California. She said activists were more likely to see electoral politics as valuable in this era because of the moral urgency that Mr. Trump’s administration has instilled among liberals.“We’re asking ourselves these really existential questions about what are we going to be as a nation,” said Ms. Butler, who is a senior adviser to Ms. Harris. “And I had to choose how to best continue the work that I’ve been doing as an advocate for workers and a voice for workers — and working for Senator Harris is a continuation of that.”Mr. McDaniel, Ms. Warren’s field director, said the shift had been building since President Barack Obama ushered in an era of internet-driven, grass-roots organizing.“The rule book went out the door with President Obama, kind of, how you engage communities,” Mr. McDaniel said. “It’s old-school tactics, but you need to have a new mind frame of thinking.”But some in the party have warned that the embracing of activists could be more about optics than an actual shift in political power and that the bulk of decision making will still reside with the political strategy firms that have long been influential in electoral politics. Ms. Harris’s campaign, for example, has deep ties to big political names such as the longtime California consultant Averell Smith, the Democratic strategist also known as Ace who helped her orchestrate several campaigns in advance of her presidential run.“The proof will be in the pudding,” said Jess Morales Rocketto, the political director of the National Domestic Workers Alliance and a former staff member on Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign. “Like who’s getting to decide the budgets, who’s getting to decide where the candidate goes, who’s getting to decide the targeting? Is that the people of color that they hired?”Ms. Morales Rocketto urged the campaigns to see employees from non-Washington backgrounds as more than just an attempt to “check boxes.” She said one current presidential campaign had explicitly told her recently that it was calling her because it needed a “senior Latina with movement credibility.”“It would be a damn shame if all they did was catch up to the optics,” she added.Heather McGhee, the former president of the progressive advocacy group Demos has not signed onto a 2020 campaign but said she had been contacted personally by Ms. Harris and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey — though she remains a close ally of Ms. Warren’s. Her counsel was particularly valued after Demos’s political arm published a much-lauded 2018 paper on how candidates should fuse analysis of race and class, a key focus of the progressive message.“To see the soul of the new Democratic Party, you can look to the candidate’s advisers and ask whether they came from activism or professional consultant class,” Ms. McGhee said.One new idea was on display when Ms. Harris held a recent campaign rally in Nevada. During the event, aides passed out headsets to Spanish-speaking residents so that the candidate’s words could be translated in real time, a move widely praised as an effective way to reach new voters in the immigrant-rich West.It came from Ms. Butler, who said it was a “no-brainer” from her time in union organizing.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Dionne SearceyABUJA, Nigeria — When a Nigerian presidential candidate landed in the United States in January after years of being subject to a visa ban because of corruption allegations, he had a team of Western consultants and lobbyists to thank for the warm American welcome.One of those who helped was Riva Levinson, who was mentored in the art of political consulting by Paul Manafort, the former chairman of President Trump’s presidential campaign, sentenced this month to more than seven years in prison for a host of crimes.Ms. Levinson, who now has her own firm, KRL International, is among the many American political consultants with ties to President Trump who have become regular fixtures in African political campaigns, seizing on the region’s turn toward democracy.For decades, countries in sub-Saharan Africa changed governments through coups that left military juntas in charge. But increasingly, in places like Nigeria, elections are supposed to determine the will of the people, though sometimes they are not fully free and fair.Yet as elections become more common and competitive — complete with polling and social media campaigns — African candidates are hiring Western firms to sway voters and influence the media coverage of their candidacies.Consultants with perceived ties to Mr. Trump are especially valued by their political clients, even in countries that he disparaged with a vulgar phrase, and which are largely off his administration’s foreign policy radar.From the sidelines at a recent election event in Nigeria, Ms. Levinson reminisced about the old days when Mr. Manafort would dispatch her across the globe to enlist unsavory leaders and help them clean up their international reputations, for a hefty fee.“Paul was a master strategist. He could hover above at 30,000 feet and see how all of the moving parts fit together, and then move each one with precision,” she recalled. “I learned that from him, and he gave me a front-row seat to watch history. I’m grateful to him for this.”Ms. Levinson was in Nigeria to help the opposition party in the country’s recent election. The party’s presidential candidate was Atiku Abubakar, and her client was a powerful Nigerian senator who was managing Mr. Abubakar’s campaign.Mr. Abubakar lost. But during the campaign, Ms. Levinson and a team of other American lobbyists and consultants with ties to Mr. Trump helped their client secure meetings with legislators and with powerful American lobbying groups. He stayed at the Trump International Hotel, a five-star hotel near the White House.Those small victories, in which Mr. Abubakar won access to Washington power centers, were impressive for a candidate who was named as a prime example of overseas corruption by a United States Senate subcommittee in 2010.  Its report said that he had funneled tens of millions of dollars worth of Nigerian oil revenues into foreign shell accounts. Mr. Abubakar has never been prosecuted, but for years he was prevented from traveling to the United States.“These firms help candidates launder their image in Washington, London and New York, shifting outside attention away from the bare-knuckle reality of their election campaigns,” said Matthew T. Page, a former State Department official who is now an associate fellow in the Africa program of Chatham House, a British research group.“They also seek to manipulate the election narrative by planting press stories or neutralizing negative narratives on social media,” Mr. Page said.In Nigeria, the opposition party also tapped another consulting firm, Ballard Partners, to help facilitate meetings for Mr. Abubakar on Capitol Hill as part of a $90,000 a month contract. Brian D. Ballard, the firm’s owner, was a top fund-raiser in the Trump campaign.Ms. Levinson accompanied Mr. Abubakar to many of his meetings in Washington, and Holland & Knight, an American law firm, lobbied the State Department to secure his visa. Scott D. Mason, a former aid to Mr. Trump, led the law firm’s effort, according to filings.Some Western firms are trying to exploit the Trump administration’s concerns that China is surpassing America’s influence on the continent, and are marketing their African clients as solutions.Mr. Ballard’s firm says it is adding consultants with ties to Africa, betting that it will win more clients as the Trump administration tries to counteract China, which has offered billions of dollars in infrastructure gifts and loans to governments across the mineral-rich continent to gain a foothold.“It is undeniably in America’s interest to combat China’s growing geopolitical influence in Africa,” said James Rubin, who is in charge of international affairs at Ballard Partners and was an assistant secretary of state in the Clinton administration.This month the government of Zimbabwe hired Ballard Partners on a contract worth $500,000 to improve relations with the United States, according to government filings.Longtime African election observers say that in the region, opportunities abound for Western firms to take advantage of editorial standards at local newspapers that can be less rigorous than in other parts of the world. They also can manipulate social media in ways tested and refined in recent elections in the West.The process of representing governments abroad can get messy. Regardless of firms’ ties to the White House, charges of fraud and violence around election time have cast a pall on the work of some consultants, jeopardizing their own image.In 2016, the government of President Ali Bongo Ondimba of Gabon hired Ogilvy, a global public relations firm, to bring international reporters to Gabon’s capital, Libreville, for one-on-one interviews with the president at his seaside palace. Mr. Bongo won re-election that year, though the opposition criticized the fairness of the vote and violence broke out.Last year, Mercury Public Affairs announced it was working for the government of Cameroon ahead of its presidential election. But it quickly rescinded the deal amid charges of human rights violations by Cameroon’s military.Not long after, Glover Park Group, an American firm, picked up a contract working for the Cameroonian Embassy in Washington. The firm’s representatives send regular dispatches to reporters with government-friendly spins on events in Cameroon, which is teetering on the brink of a civil war with separatists.Vanguard Africa, a nonprofit consultancy, built a client base by working for the opposition for free in Gambia, where one of the region’s most brutal and longest-serving presidents was ousted in 2016.For countries in sub-Saharan Africa, the opinions of officials on the other side of the globe matter. Western governments can offer millions of dollars in aid to alleviate extreme poverty, and military training and weaponry to fight Islamist insurgencies.Local opinions clearly matter, too. In the Nigerian campaign, Mr. Abubakar’s team of Western and local consultants helped shop articles to local newspapers that reflected poorly on the incumbent president and eventual winner, Muhammadu Buhari.While working for Mr. Manafort for 10 years starting in 1985, Ms. Levinson had a roster of clients in need of cleaning up their reputations. He sent her to reel in Mohamed Siad Barre, a Somali dictator, but he did not employ the firm.Eventually, directors at Mr. Manafort’s firm went their own way, and so did Ms. Levinson.“I knew that a Paul Manafort unbound by structure and oversight would be dangerous,” she said. “I wanted no part of that.”She went on to help Ellen Johnson Sirleaf rise to power in Liberia, where she was president from 2006 to 2018. Ms. Levinson’s clients now include ministries in Liberia and in Ghana.Part of her mission in Nigeria, she said, was “to keep international and U.S. attention on Nigeria’s elections, to be free and fair.”Ms. Levinson’s public comments indicate mixed feelings about her old boss. In an editorial last year after Mr. Manafort’s legal troubles began, she called him a rule-bender who had little regard for lives lost and damaged by his actions, and was “all about the money.”Susan Beachy contributed reporting from New York.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWilliam Weld has offered a glimmer of hope to NeverTrumpers. But many Republicans once opposed to the president are jumping on his 2020 bandwagon. By Liz MairMs. Mair is a Republican strategist. Does the announcement by William Weld, the former Republican governor of Massachusetts, that he’s exploring a primary challenge against President Trump offer new hope for the NeverTrump cause? The motley collection of neoconservatives, libertarians, moderate Republicans and social conservatives who couldn’t stomach Mr. Trump’s personal behavior is back in the headlines, if not in reality.But in most politically meaningful ways, the NeverTrump movement has disintegrated. It’s now the political equivalent of a doomed exotic species, attracting a lot of stares from bystanders, but no longer playing much of a role in the actual biosphere.As a Republican strategist and NeverTrumper myself, I speak from inside the belly of the beast. Mr. Weld’s announcement offers a glimmer, but I see little chance that conservatives disillusioned with President Trump will revive NeverTrump as an actual movement.President Trump has made the party his own, with a near 90 percent approval rating among Republicans. Before the 2018 midterms, many NeverTrump voters, donors and activists had already jumped off the Republican ship to independent or even Democratic galleons. So they may not get to vote in either the Republican or Democratic primary without re-registering. And now, as we head into the 2020 election season, some notable conservatives formerly opposed to Mr. Trump have decided to throw their support to him. The conservative writer and radio host Erick Erickson is a good example. “Some of my concerns about President Trump remain,” he wrote in a recent column. “But I also recognize that we cannot have the Trump administration policies without President Trump and there is much to like.”Senator Mike Lee of Utah, who was seen as a ringleader of an effort to block Mr. Trump’s nomination at the 2016 convention, will also help the president. He and Mr. Erickson both voted for the independent candidate Evan McMullin, and they are far from alone in now supporting President Trump.The bottom line for people like Mr. Erickson is this: Mr. Trump has terrible character flaws and has eroded norms and worsened our system of government. But Democrats seem to have responded to the election of Mr. Trump not by pushing forward sensible, moderate candidates who understand the fundamentals of government and policy but rather far-left legislators in Congress (like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Rashida Tlaib) and policy like the late-term-abortion laws in Virginia and New York.Mr. Trump may be a nutter with bad-to-nonexistent morals and ideas, but he has at least succeeded on policy goals that are important to people like Mr. Erickson. In his column, he noted that President Trump had “delivered on tax reform” as well as “regulatory rollbacks,” “undermining Obamacare” and “solid executive appointments, including to the judiciary.” Those things matter to lots of different types of conservatives, and some of them matter in particular to social conservatives. That leaves relatively few of us undecideds pacing the proverbial political mall, window shopping. Our efforts to affect the 2020 map might just be pointless: A lot of us live in states that neither have early primaries nor are likely to be in play in the general election. The only way to have an impact on the electoral map and ensure NeverTrump exerts serious, quantifiable political power is for all of its 2016 members to somehow get on the same page in terms of whom to support, and then collectively move to Iowa, New Hampshire and Florida. Short of that, our influence will be more subtle (campaign contributions, an endorsement, advice on debate technique). Ideally, what we do will help counteract the work done by others like Mr. Erickson.As things stand right now, I’m inclined to vote my conscience and back Mr. Weld. I voted for him when he ran on the Libertarian Party line in 2016. He had a solid fiscal conservative rating as governor. He’s more capable than Mr. Trump of doing the job of commander in chief. He is likable and funny, and I can see him working well with other world leaders.For the Democratic Party to have its best shot at retaking the White House, by grabbing not just swing voters in places like the Midwest but also some disillusioned Republican voters wherever it can, perhaps helping it win somewhere like Arizona, it needs to nominate someone at least perceived as more moderate than your average House Democrat and more levelheaded than the hate-tweet-happy Mr. Trump. It probably means its safest choice is Joe Biden, or if he doesn’t run, maybe Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., or Gov. Steve Bullock of Montana.If the Democratic Party can play it smart like that, NeverTrumpers might count for something this election cycle. But if it doesn’t, we will most likely carry on as the political version of the West African black rhino — active and occasionally visible until it dies off altogether or is permanently integrated into another subspecies in American political life.Liz Mair, who was a strategist for campaigns by Scott Walker, Roy Blunt, Rand Paul, Carly Fiorina and Rick Perry, is the founder and president of Mair Strategies.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe British prime minister’s deal has failed. Again.By Jenni RussellContributing Opinion WriterThis Op-Ed has been updated to reflect news developments.LONDON — My first attempt to charm Theresa May was eight years ago, in the grand surroundings of the State Dining Room in Downing Street, where a couple of hundred women had been invited to a reception for International Women’s Day. Mrs. May, then the home secretary, arrived to the event late and perched by a table looking uncomfortable and alone. She was the only minister not surrounded by a jostling crowd. I told a gaggle of female correspondents that I was going to talk to her. “Don’t bother,” they said. “She’s a blank wall. She never tells you anything.”I didn’t believe them. In general, politicians need journalists to exchange gossip, spin, insights and facts. I took my glass and introduced myself. Mrs. May gave a small tight smile. Every question I asked, from how she was doing to what challenges she faced at the home office, was batted away with monosyllables. I was baffled. She clearly saw no point in creating a relationship, or explaining any of her thinking to me.This would have been an irrelevant encounter with an unimportant hack except that practically everybody, from fellow ministers to advisers to European leaders, turns out to have experienced a version of it. Mrs. May’s extraordinary inability to develop or grasp the critical importance of alliances, friendships, coalitions and mutual understanding in politics has destroyed her premiership — and derailed the Brexit process from its beginning to its calamitous stalemate today.This week, Mrs. May sealed her fate. She announced to her Conservative Party that if they voted for the Brexit deal she negotiated with the European Union — and which Parliament had, humiliatingly, voted down twice already — she would finally resign. On Friday afternoon, Parliament voted down the deal for a remarkable third time. What happens next with Brexit remains terrifyingly uncertain and it’s not clear how much longer Mrs. May can hang on. But one way or another, her days are numbered. And the damage is done.When Mrs. May unexpectedly became the Conservative Party’s leader optimists hoped that despite her dullness — or perhaps because of it — she would be a cautious, careful prime minister. As a former Remainer she could have sought common ground between both Leavers and the 48 percent of voters who wanted to stay. It quickly became clear she would do no such thing.Mrs. May has made dozens of strategic mistakes in the past three years, from calling a general election that destroyed her parliamentary majority to vindictively sacking talented members of her cabinet who had previously opposed her, to allying herself with the most destructive and intransigent Brexiteers in her Conservative Party.Each of these errors has stemmed from the same fatal flaw: her belief that she can lead and win without paying attention to what her allies, enemies, colleagues — and potential collaborators — want or think. Famously wooden, she seems to regard other crucial players in politics as pieces she can move around a chessboard without motivations of their own.European Union officials and European leaders have reeled at Mrs. May’s rigidity in Brexit negotiations over the past two years. But this is no surprise to her colleagues. A senior politician who spent years alongside her in the cabinet says that Mrs. May never understood the concept of negotiation. She simply expected the other side to give way. “With most people you go into a room and you say, I need X, you need Y, and the two of you end up with Z. It’s iterative, a compromise. She just doesn’t work like that.”Nor, the former minister says, does she have the mental agility or intellectual curiosity to handle a complex, shifting political landscape. An effective strategy for Brexit would have required endless brainstorming with key players, from diplomats to advisers. “But you cannot sit in a room with her and have a free-ranging discussion, what about this, what about that. She just can’t do it.” Disastrously, she prefers secretive consultations with her husband Philip and just a couple of trusted colleagues.Why and how did this shy, private woman first seek this very public role and then cling so ferociously on to it? Colleagues of hers tell me it is because the Conservative Party is the center of her life. Brought up by her father, a High Anglican vicar, to believe in duty above all, she has transferred that sense of service to the Conservative Party. The party offers higher purpose, codes, rituals and community, just as the church does. She spends many Saturday afternoons canvassing for it. It is why over her disastrous time in office she has so fatally placed its unity above the interests of the country in Brexit.Mrs. May’s willful ignorance and obstinacy means she has never understood the landscape she’s operating in, where the minefields lie, where the safe places and escape routes might be. She has essentially been blundering her way blindfolded through the most delicate and critical negotiations that Britain has faced since the Second World War, and now she has blown up her political career. She may have blown up the country along the way. Her leadership is in its dying days. She is on her way out, whether within days, weeks or months. Despite all her duty, she will be remembered as one of the most inadequate and disastrous leaders the country has ever had.Jenni Russell (@jennirsl) is a columnist for The Times of London and a contributing opinion writer.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin MuellerLONDON — They call him “Failing Grayling.”While the trials, tribulations and humiliations of Prime Minister Theresa May have occupied center stage in the carnival of British politics, Chris Grayling has starred in a black comedy sideshow of his own. He has bumbled his way from one government post to another, accused of making a hash of each, and becoming a byword for haplessness in a golden age of political blundering in Britain.To take one of his most recent missteps, as transport minister trying to guard against the chaos that could accompany Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, he awarded an $18 million contract for extra ferries to handle cross-channel trade — to a company that owned no ferries.And it didn’t end there. This past week, the government was forced to cough up 33 million pounds, about $44 million, to settle a lawsuit brought by Eurotunnel, which complained that it was unfairly prevented from bidding on the ferry contracts, which were negotiated in secret.While the ferry fiasco was unfolding, Mr. Grayling organized a spectacularly ineffectual demonstration of Britain’s ability to deal with the backups of truck traffic expected in a no-deal Brexit. Those traffic jams could contain thousands of trucks, but for the test, he called for just 150, and only 89 turned up.On Friday, the opposition Labour Party chimed in with a report claiming that Mr. Grayling’s various misadventures — 12 in all — had cost British taxpayers 2.7 billion pounds, or $3.6 billion.“If anyone was to read the most rudimentary audit about the effects of his time in office on the things he’s supposed to be running, he’d have been out years ago,” said Ian Dunt, the author of “Brexit: What the Hell Happens Now.” “But that’s not the manner in which the country is currently being run.”While Mr. Grayling’s survival in the leadership has baffled many Britons, the reason, analysts say, is simple: Brexit. He is a rare breed of Conservative politician, one who is both a loyalist of Prime Minister Theresa May and a strongly pro-Brexit campaigner, but without the ideological baggage of the far right. Until Brexit happens, the combination makes him virtually impossible to fire.“The lot of Brexiteers who are willing to work with Theresa May and aren’t bonkers is quite small,” said Rob Ford, a politics professor at the University of Manchester. “And one can argue he’s incompetent, but he’s not a flaming ideologue.”A former BBC producer and public relations consultant, Mr. Grayling got his start when the Conservative Party chose him in 2001 to run for a seat the party had held since 1885. Charlie Mansell, the sacrificial lamb put up by Labour to run against him, said that with victory assured, Mr. Grayling did not appear to see much reason to actually campaign for the seat.“It was almost like, ‘This is a historically Conservative seat, and I’m inheriting it,’ ” Mr. Mansell said of Mr. Grayling. “He didn’t really pitch anything on his expertise or skill set at the time.”Retelling the story of Mr. Grayling’s mistakes has become a cottage industry in Westminster political circles. At the 2009 Conservative Party conference, he called a major personnel choice by David Cameron, then party leader, a “political gimmick,” thinking that Labour had made the appointment.Starting in 2012, as the first justice secretary in 400-plus years without a law degree, he introduced changes that threw the legal system into an uproar. He banned books in prisons, partly privatized probation and cut lawyers’ fees for criminal legal aid by nearly 18 percent, decimating the profession. His successor from the same party, Michael Gove, promptly reversed many of the measures.But the horrid pay and huge caseloads scared off a generation of lawyers, said Richard Miller, the head of justice at the Law Society.“We’ve not quite yet got to the stage where someone has asked for a lawyer in a police station and they haven’t been able to get one, but we’ve come very close,” he said.At the Justice Ministry, Mr. Grayling did not show enough concern for principles like keeping some judicial matters in public view or giving people access to courts in their communities, said Simon Hughes, who worked for part of the same period as a justice minister from the centrist Liberal Democrats. His office endlessly delayed answering parliamentary questions while political advisers hashed out the right answers, Mr. Hughes said.“He saw everything through a very party-political optic,” Mr. Hughes said.His flagging political profile got a lift when, after backing Brexit in the 2016 referendum campaign, he ran Mrs. May’s campaign for party leader. Having the support of a Brexiteer was crucial for Mrs. May, who had backed staying in the European Union.Naming Mr. Grayling the transport secretary helped resolve one of her main preoccupations as prime minister, former advisers said: having an even balance of pro- and anti-Brexit ministers in her cabinet. Other Brexiteers like Boris Johnson and Dominic Raab quit their high-profile posts, but Mr. Grayling remained a stalwart supporter.He was also popular on the right for comments disavowed by lawmakers of his own party, like saying in 2010 that Christian bed-and-breakfast owners should be able to refuse gay guests. Given Mrs. May’s political fragility, analysts said, she has decided not to fire Mr. Grayling and risk the upheaval of another cabinet reshuffle.“It is the very old story of people’s government positions being defined by their function within the Conservative Party,” said Mr. Dunt, “rather than their capacity to deliver on the thing they’re ostensibly in charge of.”As transportation secretary, he has been trailed by calls for his resignation. He introduced new railway timetables last spring, only for hundreds of trains to be canceled each day on certain lines. A review found that Mr. Grayling had been warned weeks in advance of the impending chaos, and yet “nobody took charge.”Brexit created more difficulties. A no-deal Brexit would mean severing longstanding agreements controlling how trucks and ferries cross between Britain and the rest of Europe. The Transportation Ministry tried to prepare by putting out a call for contracts for backup ferry operators, but it got many fewer bids than it expected, among them one from the ferryless ferry company, transportation experts said.Mr. Grayling insisted he was supporting a start-up British business, even after it came out that the company had copied its terms of service from a takeout food website. He had to cancel the contract last month after the company’s financial backer withdrew, leaving the government out the 800,000 pounds, around $1 million, it had paid consultants.“If you’re planning for a no-deal scenario, you’ve got to take risks, I guess, and this is what happens,” said Andrew Forster, the editor of Local Transport Today. “I don’t see how you can blame Chris Grayling for that situation.”Some analysts have detected what they hope may be a silver lining in Mr. Grayling’s fumblings. He is so bad at disguising his mistakes, and so tempting a target for the tabloids, that they say he has single-handedly forced the British public to pay attention to mundane problems like ferry shortages that otherwise may have gotten buried in the papers.“Once Chris Grayling comes in, you can sell almost any article on the basis of just, ‘Look at what this guy has monstrously messed up now,’ ” Mr. Dunt said. “People really enjoy disliking him.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the amount that a Labour Party’s report claimed Chris Grayling misadventures had cost British taxpayers. It is 2.7 billion pounds, not 2.7 million.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Shane Goldmacher and Lisa LererSenator Amy Klobuchar seemed quite clear when she revealed the first state she would visit as a presidential candidate: Wisconsin. “Because, as you remember, there wasn’t a lot of campaigning in Wisconsin in 2016,” she said. “With me, that changes.”Many Democrats took it as an unmistakable swipe at Hillary Clinton, who lost that battleground state after never appearing there during the 2016 general election campaign. The jab ricocheted across the internet, enraging Clinton admirers and earning Ms. Klobuchar attention as a Midwesterner willing to speak hard truths.But behind the scenes, Ms. Klobuchar of Minnesota sprang into damage control mode, firing off an email to Mrs. Clinton. In a phone call that soon followed, she apologized and said her off-the-cuff remark had been misinterpreted, according to people familiar with the episode.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]The Klobuchar comment came out of nowhere for the former Democratic presidential nominee: Only three days earlier, Ms. Klobuchar had been sitting in Mrs. Clinton’s Washington home, the latest in a line of 2020 Democrats who had sought her private counsel ahead of their campaigns. Two days before that, it had been former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. who had visited, according to a person familiar with the meeting.After eight years as first lady, eight years as New York senator, four years as secretary of state and five months as the party’s presidential nominee, Mrs. Clinton remains a singular and complicated figure when it comes to Democratic presidential politics. In a 2020 race featuring a historic number of female candidates, Mrs. Clinton’s shadow is inescapable, particularly as she is a favorite target of President Trump.Whether it is building or deepening a relationship with Mrs. Clinton — or navigating or repairing a long-term one — the men and women in the 2020 race must grapple with how the 2016 nominee will factor into the next 18 months.“I love the Clintons,” said Terry McAuliffe, the former Virginia governor considering a 2020 run and a close friend of the Clinton family for decades. “But this is about the future.”Mrs. Clinton is, at once, a glass-ceiling-shattering symbol of women’s empowerment and an emblem of the past. She is both the first woman to lead a major party ticket and the candidate who lost the Electoral College in a defeat that left Democrats stunned and demoralized. She is a party elder but also a politician who will not be nudged out of the arena, declining to unequivocally rule out a 2020 run. She still possesses a loyal and powerful constituency of female supporters even as she is the farthest she has been from center stage in American politics in almost three decades.“This party is part of her DNA and she deserves the respect,” said Minyon Moore, a strategist who has advised Mrs. Clinton for decades. “How many candidates have lost their campaign? Some twice, and they’re still running again, potentially. She has a stature in this party that she has earned.”At a time when Democrats are driven by their desire to defeat Mr. Trump, Mrs. Clinton knows the strengths and weaknesses of the crowded primary field more intimately than perhaps anyone. Over the past quarter-century or so, she has served as a mentor, colleague, supporter or rival to nearly every Democrat running or considering a run. She vetted at least five of the current or possible 2020 candidates as her running mate in 2016, going so far as to print signs for one of them, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey. And her campaign alumni pepper the upper reaches of numerous 2020 campaigns.In recent months, a parade of ambitious Democrats has held private sessions with Mrs. Clinton, who has counseled them about the unmatched rigors of the campaign trail and hardships of facing Mr. Trump, according to people familiar with the conversations. Beyond Mr. Biden and Ms. Klobuchar, she has spoken with Senator Kamala Harris of California; Mr. Booker; Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts; John Hickenlooper, the former governor of Colorado; and the former housing secretary Julián Castro, among others. She and Mr. McAuliffe speak regularly. Gov. Steve Bullock of Montana is trying to schedule a meeting with her.“She knows almost everybody who’s running, and with most of the people she has a close relationship,” said Mr. Hickenlooper, who interviewed to be Mrs. Clinton’s running mate in 2016 and had dinner with her last year, as he prepared for a possible presidential bid. “You talk about divided affections. She’s got it.”[Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]Not everyone has sought Mrs. Clinton’s advice. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, whose 2016 primary challenge ruptured their relationship, has not spoken with Mrs. Clinton, or even reached out, despite the imperative to make inroads into her coalition. Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman considering a run, has not spoken with Mrs. Clinton either.A notable name not to consult Mrs. Clinton is Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, whose once close relationship with the Clintons deteriorated after she said President Bill Clinton should have resigned over his sexual relationship with a White House intern.In her conversations, Mrs. Clinton signaled that she has no plans to endorse someone in the primary, say those who have spoken with her, but is eager to help the eventual nominee. “She will certainly not insert herself,” Ms. Moore said.Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, said, “She’s been meeting with our 2020 candidates and telling them one thing: They can count on her to help get the 65 million-plus Americans who voted for her to vote for our nominee.”But even as she offers supportive words, Mrs. Clinton has given the impression that she harbors a faint hope she could still become president one day. In private conversations, she occasionally muses about an opening, according to some who have spoken with her, sounding more wistful than realistic.There are no actual signs Mrs. Clinton is pursuing a campaign. Her former campaign chairman, John Podesta, said flatly weeks ago she was not running. Mr. Merrill declined to comment on her plans, pointing to her remarks last fall when she twice said “no” about wanting to run again before adding, “Well, I’d like to be president.”Mrs. Clinton’s deep connections have complicated the political calculations for candidates at a time when her party is acutely aware of not repeating what some Democrats see as her mistakes. And while several candidates and their advisers said they would welcome her endorsement, they acknowledge it could come with political risk, as Mrs. Clinton remains a representation of the party’s old guard.Advisers to Mr. McAuliffe expect that his close association with the Clintons would be an issue if he ran, even as the relationship enhances his ability to raise money from some of their loyal donors.“Hillary Clinton is a leading expert in any one of a dozen issues, from politics to policy, and it would be crazy not to try to extract as much of that knowledge as you can in any amount of time you can get from her,” said Matt McKenna, a former Clinton family adviser now working with Mr. Bullock.Since her loss, there is little question that Mrs. Clinton and her husband do not have the same pull they once did in a party that was once nearly synonymous with their last name. With their army of donors, influential circle of current and former staff members and a powerful public platform, the Clintons were seen as career makers — or breakers. No longer.As the party has searched for a way forward in the Trump era, Democrats have become more open with their criticism of the couple. The party’s left wing has repudiated some of Mr. Clinton’s main achievements, including the 1994 crime bill and the 1999 repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act, which allowed the rise of big banks, and is eager to distance itself from the scandals that defined Mr. Clinton’s second term.But as Ms. Klobuchar saw, those who cross the Clintons risk blowback.Ms. Gillibrand and Mrs. Clinton were not on speaking terms ahead of Ms. Gillibrand’s run, even though Mrs. Clinton had inspired Ms. Gillibrand to get into politics, wrote the foreword to her book and campaigned for her in her first House race. Their relationship deteriorated after Ms. Gillibrand in late 2017 said a resignation by Mr. Clinton would have been “appropriate.”In an interview in January, Ms. Gillibrand gingerly said she planned “to reach out” to Mrs. Clinton: “I would like to hear her perspective and I would be very grateful for her advice.” Later, she added: “I value her counsel. I hope I will be able to earn that in the future.” The two are now supposed to meet soon, according to a person familiar with the matter.Those who have spoken with Mrs. Clinton say she has plenty of advice. After running a campaign that published a 288-page policy book, she urges candidates not to let their message get clouded by wonky policy debates. As a politician who famously claimed a “vast right-wing conspiracy,” she has warned about the barrage of Republican attacks they are likely to face. She has specifically warned female candidates of the gendered expectations they will face, in particular on national security. And she has encouraged everyone to preserve their health amid the rigors of campaigning, a struggle for Mrs. Clinton, who found her campaign derailed by conspiracy theories about her physical fitness after she fainted at a 9/11 memorial ceremony.In conversations with the Democratic National Committee chairman Tom Perez, she has urged the national party to fund-raise more aggressively and build a data-sharing program for its candidates that is comparable to the one Republicans successfully leveraged on behalf of Mr. Trump in 2016, according to some who have spoken with her, including Mr. Perez.“She had a lot of advice,” Mr. Hickenlooper said. “She’s been there. It’s one thing to read about stuff and it’s another thing to live it. She is very insightful about drawing wisdom from her experience.”As they turn their focus to a 2020 rematch against Mr. Trump, Democrats are determined not to repeat what they see as the missteps made by Mrs. Clinton and her campaign.“I begin by acknowledging that Hillary Clinton beat Donald Trump by millions of votes,” Mr. Castro said. “At the same time, it’s clear we want to go with a laser focus on winning back Florida, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin.”A few days after her talk with Mrs. Clinton, Ms. Klobuchar pushed a message of “heartland economics” in Iowa. But, this time, she was careful to credit Mrs. Clinton.“Hillary is a good friend and would have been a great president,” Ms. Klobuchar said. “I was just showing that I can win in Wisconsin, that I can win in Iowa, that I can win across the Midwest.”Susan Chira contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sydney EmberWhen House Speaker Nancy Pelosi introduced legislation this week to strengthen the Affordable Care Act, Democrats across the ideological spectrum were quick to express their support: moderates, liberals, even Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the often uncompromising progressive freshman.But not Bernie Sanders.When asked on Tuesday night whether he, too, supported the House bill, Mr. Sanders was defiant.“No,” he said tersely.“No,” he said again, when pressed. “The incremental reform that I support is phasing in ‘Medicare for all.’”Mr. Sanders, the independent senator from Vermont, is not one to compromise on his long-held policy positions, especially his signature stance on health care, though he has, in fact, supported non-“Medicare for all” legislation in the past, including backing a 2017 bill to allow people to buy into state Medicaid plans.Yet more than a month into his second presidential bid, his response underscored, once again, his willingness to stand apart from a party he has not joined but hopes to helm.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]His reply on Ms. Pelosi’s bill also afforded him momentary distance from ideologically similar rivals, including Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who on Wednesday tweeted out her own support for the Affordable Care Act.Mr. Sanders’s unflinching position is a reminder to voters that he is unabashedly left-wing and unlikely to worry about working within the confines of the existing system anytime soon. It also reflects a schism within the Democratic Party over the best way to recapture power in Washington: Should Democrats project big, bold policy ideas that could fundamentally alter the political structure but face long odds in a hyperpartisan Congress? Or should they present incremental measures that are more likely to appeal to the center and could succeed sooner?Some candidates, including Ms. Warren, are hoping they can bridge the gap and do both. Others are betting that there is a following for within-the-system politics. Candidates like Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Beto O’Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, have spent the early days of their campaigns highlighting their common-ground legislation with Republican colleagues, and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., expected to enter the race next month, wears his bipartisanship like a badge of honor.It is a debate that has raged within the party since before the midterm elections last year, with some strategists suggesting that bold, disruptive ideas like the ones championed by Mr. Sanders electrify voters and spur them to the polls.“Whoever is president next just can’t make incremental change,” said Karine Jean-Pierre, a senior adviser to the progressive political organizing group MoveOn.org, who worked on President Barack Obama’s 2008 and 2012 campaigns. “We just have to be bold, and we have to take chances — people are hurting. We need to move forward in a big way.”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]Others, however, argue that candidates should offer a vision of political compromise and deliberate change, a line of thinking that seemed to have taken hold anew this week. The day after Ms. Pelosi put forth — and Mr. Sanders rejected — her health care proposal, she introduced a plan to combat climate change inspired by, but far more modest than, the sprawling resolution known as the Green New Deal.(The Green New Deal proposal, which aims to fight climate change as well as address societal problems including income and racial inequality, has garnered qualified support among some Democrats, including Mr. Sanders and other 2020 candidates. But Democrats voted “present” on a motion in the Senate this week to consider the plan, calling the vote a political ploy by Republicans. It failed, 0 to 57.)Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he was not available to comment for this article.Even as Mr. Sanders remained firmly rooted on the left, two presidential candidates rolled out policy proposals this week that seemed more palatable than revolutionary.Ms. Klobuchar, who has been more circumspect in her policy positions than some of her opponents, introduced a plan on Thursday that called for a trillion dollars in federal funds to upgrade the country’s infrastructure, an issue that her aides say has broad bipartisan appeal. Senator Kamala Harris of California announced a plan to invest federal money into teacher pay. Under the proposal, her campaign said, the average teacher in America would receive a $13,500 pay increase.Other candidates have also balked at promoting attention-getting proposals that would fundamentally remake existing policies, even when they broadly support them. During a town hall-style forum on Wednesday night, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey called the current health care system “broken” and said he believed the country should have “Medicare for all.” But he also said, “We have to show a pathway to get there through practical things” that included lowering drug prices, a policy that even some Republicans have embraced.A recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll showed that 55 percent of Democratic primary voters preferred a candidate who “proposes larger-scale policies that cost more and might be harder to pass into law, but could bring major change on these issues”; 42 percent said they preferred someone who “proposes smaller-scale policies” that would “bring less change.”Mr. Sanders is not the only candidate with bold, agenda-setting policy plans. Ms. Warren, for example, has proposed levying an annual tax on the superwealthy and breaking up technology giants like Amazon and Facebook.But among moderates in the party, the notion that candidates have to be daring to capture the nomination is anathema.“The path to the White House and to majorities has to be in a pragmatic, progressive area,” said Jim Kessler, executive vice president for policy at Third Way, a center-left think tank. “If you go too far left, Donald Trump gets re-elected and Republicans control both houses of Congress.”“Our heads are in the clouds, but our feet are also on the ground at the same time,” he added. He cited his group’s universal health care plan, which he said was “just as ambitious” as Mr. Sanders’s proposed “Medicare for all.”There was, however, a key difference.“It just doesn’t blow up the system,” Mr. Kessler said. “It builds on the existing system.”Advertisement
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
