AdvertisementSupported byIt’s another sign of President Trump’s weakness.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.President Trump’s emergency declaration for a border wall is based on an obvious falsehood: There is no emergency at the U.S.-Mexico border. And because he was goaded into the declaration by Sean Hannity, the episode makes a mockery of the federal government.But in the relative scheme of Trump’s misbehavior, the emergency declaration doesn’t rank very high. It’s not corruption or obstruction of justice. It’s not an attempt to undermine America’s alliance with Western Europe. And it doesn’t even matter much for immigration policy. If you’re trying to calibrate your Trump-related outrage, you can take a deep breath this morning.“A presidential declaration of emergency in order to construct a wall would be stupid,” Lawfare’s Quinta Jurecic wrote. “It would be wasteful. It would test the limits of the president’s authority under the law in question. But it would not, in itself, be a step toward authoritarianism.” (Here’s the longer version of her case.)[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]“This will be challenged in courts immediately, and it will be pretty easy to throw this thing out,” Neal Katyal, a former acting solicitor general, predicted on Lawrence O’Donnell’s MSNBC show last night.“Trump’s fake emergency is a sign of weakness not strength,” tweeted The New Yorker’s John Cassidy. “He ran on the wall, he had two years of Republican control of Congress, and he still couldn’t get it financed. Weak president.”And Philip Klein of The Washington Examiner made the conservative case against the declaration: “The only hope for limited government conservatives is that any emergency declaration gets quickly enjoined, and eventually nixed, in federal court. At least then, the silver lining would be that a legal precedent would be set that the president cannot attempt such an end around Congress.”The China rivalry“I’ve always thought Americans would come together when we realized that we faced a dangerous foreign foe,” my colleague David Brooks writes. “And lo and behold, now we have one: China. It’s become increasingly clear that China is a grave economic, technological and intellectual threat to the United States and the world order.”I agree that the United States has been too complacent about the geopolitical challenge that China poses.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWhy American conservatism after Trump may learn to like the state.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistSince conservatism became a movement in the 1950s, the American right has understood itself to be defending not just the written American Constitution but an unwritten one as well — a kind of cultural or social constitution, deeply rooted in our national history, that the checks and balances of our official political system help sustain.Under this constitution America has three branches of government but a great diversity of power centers — religious and corporate, familial and philanthropic. Under this constitution the most important institutions in our national life aren’t political ones; they’re the institutions of civil society, which have flourished — or so the conservative argument goes — precisely because government has been kept within limits, and the state hasn’t co-opted or crushed all its rivals for influence and power.Thus when conservatives preach about the virtues of “limited government,” it isn’t just Herbert Hoover’s rugged individual that they imagine themselves defending. They envision a larger communitarian panoply — civic associations, religious denominations, charities and universities and private schools — which needs protection against the jealousy of a centralizing state. And they tend to assume that keeping the American corporation embedded in this communitarian system is a better way to balance productivity and innovation and public-spiritedness than just trying to regulate and micromanage businesses into good behavior.If you wanted to summarize the intellectual uncertainties of conservatives in the Trump era, you could say that the right is trying to figure out whether the unwritten American constitution it imagines itself defending still exists. And if it doesn’t, or if it’s failing, whether that means that “limited government” as a slogan and strategy is increasingly irrelevant when it comes to shaping the society that conservatives would like America to be.The latter was the argument that Donald Trump implicitly pressed against his more optimistic opponents in the 2016 primaries. They were defenders of the American dream as conservatives have long defined it, while the dark, conspiratorial tones of their businessman rival raised a set of uncomfortable questions. Is America still a nation of thriving local communities and energetic civic life? Is America still a deeply religious country, with strong churches and growing denominations? Are American businessmen basically public spirited, eager to compete on equal terms once government removes its heavy hand, and natural allies for a political movement wedded to patriotism and religion?For years now conservative critics and sociologists and intellectuals have been acknowledging that the answers might be no — that the country’s once-rich associational and civic and religious life is declining and dissolving, that corporate America embraces conservative slogans to keep taxes low and unions weak but otherwise seems post-patriotic and performatively woke, that the “silent majority” of hardworking, pious, culturally conservative blue-collar families is now essentially defunct.Many of the best conservative books of the last decade, from “Coming Apart” by Charles Murray to “The Fractured Republic” by Yuval Levin, describe an emerging America that doesn’t much resemble the Tocquevillian family-church-community landscape familiar from past conservative descriptions of American exceptionalism. The latest example is “Alienated America: Why Some Places Thrive While Others Collapse” by Tim Carney, a mix of sociology and shoe-leather reporting that convincingly situates the rise of Trump in the context of Middle America’s communitarian collapse.But while accounts like Carney’s acknowledge the role of economic forces — globalization, trade, deindustrialization — in the dissolution of family and community, they also tend to insist, contra liberals and our new socialist vanguard (and also contra Trump), that this cultural collapse isn’t primarily driven by economic policy decisions and can’t be reversed by public policies or programs. Instead they tend to suggest that state interventions often just replace community instead of strengthening it and cast any communitarian revival as a necessarily local project, in which government can play at best a supporting, don’t-make-matters-worse kind of role.These kind of arguments are still in continuity, then, with the basic conservative posture of the last few generations. But there are also increasingly partisans of rupture on the right, a loose group of state-power conservatives who hint that if the Tocquevillian dream is dying then the cause of “limited government” is increasingly irrelevant — which in turn would require conservatives to become more comfortable using the power of the state, and more engaged in centralized policymaking that has specific social and cultural ends in mind.This argument is visible in the controversy surrounding Tucker Carlson’s monologue a month ago, which stirred up libertarian backlash by calling for Republicans to use government policy to make American life friendlier to families, and particularly to single-earner households. It also informs the difference between Carney’s book and the other smart right-of-center volume of the moment, Oren Cass’s “The Once and Future Worker.” The two authors share a certain common ground, but in the end Carney concludes that “our current economic and social ills … cannot be solved or even significantly ameliorated by any president, or by the central government at all,” while Cass’s whole thesis is that wiser policymaking could make a big difference to the unhappy heartlanders Carney profiles.But the fullest case for rupture, for declaring that “the era of limited government is over,” is offered in two recent essays in conservative intellectual journals — Dan McCarthy’s “A New Conservative Agenda” in First Things, and Gladden Pappin’s “Toward a Party of the State” in American Affairs. Both envision a conservatism that is oriented less toward the state-as-enemy or the state-as-danger and much more toward the state-as-shaper and the state-as-harmonizer. For instance, here is McCarthy’s account of how the economic nationalism of Donald Trump can be transmuted into something less inchoate and more effective:Economic nationalism is not just about tariffs. It is less about “economic” than it is about “nationalism” — that is, it takes account of the different needs of different walks of life and regions of the country, serving the whole by serving its parts and drawing them ­together. In the past, the challenge was to harmonize farmers, urban capital and labor. The challenge now is to balance those groups with the postindustrial classes as well, and to strengthen the productive economy against the largely fictional economy of administrators and clerks. All of this is for the sake not just of prosperity, in raw dollar terms, but of a national economy that provides the basis for a healthy culture in which citizens and their families can flourish.Pappin makes a similar argument about how both political coalitions, but especially the right, should adapt to the current challenge from “illiberal” or “post-liberal” forces, both populist and socialist:Rather than asking the question “What should conservatives/progressives do?” considerable advances can be made through certain purely practical considerations: “How can the integrity of the national political community be assured?” “How can commercial activity and technological development continue to be turned toward the common good, and toward our own strategic advantage?” “What can we do with the reins of power, that is, the state, to ensure the common good of our citizens?” The likely answers to these “practical” questions, Pappin contends, require conservatives to make practical “use of the administrative state” for right-wing ends, rather than constantly returning to “plaintive, nostalgic and counterproductive calls for its abolition.”A hostile reader of these essays, libertarian or liberal, might respond that a vision in which right-wing governments seek to reshape culture and mediate between classes resembles nothing so much as early-20th century fascism. A more sympathetic reader would say no, there is plenty of space for more a state-friendly conservative politics in between movement conservatism and Mussolini, and what McCarthy and Pappin are envisioning might be better described as a blend of the American Hamiltonian tradition with a 21st-century update of French Gaullism.And the most subtle reader might say that they’re trying to provide the theory for a move that the Republican Party once in power tends to make anyway — both of the last two G.O.P. presidents have been, in some sense, “big government conservatives” — but so far without the strategy, seriousness and self-consciousness required to make the project a success.I have enough of my own skepticism about the efficacy of state power to be uncertain if the project can succeed. But post-Trump conservatives are likely to be drawn to state-power conservatism not just by theoretical ambition but by a sense of political necessity.The earlier conservative self-understanding, in which the right was defending nongovernmental institutions against the power of the state, tacitly depended on the assumption that many if not most nongovernmental institutions would be friendly to conservative values. But as civil society has decayed over recent decades, its remaining power centers have also become increasingly left-wing.Already-liberal institutions — universities, Hollywood, the big foundations and the mass media — are now more uniformly allied with the left than even the very recent past. Corporate America happily donates to Republicans because it fears a Bernie Sanders presidency, but on cultural issues big business courts its younger customers with progressive lobbying and propaganda. In religion, Catholicism under Pope Francis aspires (scandals permitting) to ease its way leftward as well, leaving evangelical Christianity as an isolated bastion with little culture-shaping power.Yet conservatives can still win the White House and the Congress, which means that the one power center they can hope to control is the one they are notionally organized to limit — the administrative state. If we assume that people tend to seek power, and devise justifications for seeking power, where it can be plausibly exercised and won, then the state-power conservatives may not need the strongest intellectual arguments to change the way the right thinks about the state. Instead limited government conservatism may give way to an attempt to improve on Trumpism with clearer blueprints and smarter cadres for the same reason that changes often happen in political ideology — because the people whose thinking is changing feel that they don’t have any other choice.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byEurotunnel sued the Department for Transport over the handling of contracts to provide extra freight capacity.By Amie TsangLONDON — Add this to the list of headaches faced by Britain’s government as it frantically tries to prepare for Brexit: a 33 million pound (about $44 million) payment to settle a lawsuit brought by Eurotunnel, the company that operates the rail link between France and Britain. Eurotunnel had sued Britain’s Department for Transport over the handling of contracts to provide extra transportation capacity in the event the country leaves the European Union without a deal in place. The company accused the British government of limiting competition by not having open bidding for the contracts, worth millions of dollars, according to the court filings. In December, Britain’s government signed contracts with DFDS, a Danish shipping company, and Brittany Ferries, a French company, to supply extra freight capacity to bring essential goods and medicines into the country in the event of a no-deal Brexit. The government also signed a contract with Seaborne Freight, a ferry company that was later found by the BBC not to have run a ferry service before. The deal came under heavy criticism, with one lawmaker calling it a “shell company.” The firm was also ridiculed for echoing the website terms and conditions of a business specializing in takeout meals. Seaborne Freight pulled out of the contract. The government settled the case with Eurotunnel to avoid a prolonged legal tussle as it tries to make arrangements for March 29, when the country is scheduled to exit the European Union. Government departments and Britain’s businesses have been furiously preparing in case the country leaves the European Union without an agreement setting the terms of the separation. There are fears that the lack of clarity over port arrangements could lead to gridlock on the roads and problems getting food and medicine to people in Britain. “We are taking steps to ensure supply chains continue to function, whatever the circumstances of our departure, and that mitigation is in place to avoid disruption at borders,” Stephen Barclay, the Brexit secretary, said in a statement on Friday. Chris Grayling, the transport secretary, added, “While it is disappointing that Eurotunnel chose to take legal action on contracts in place to ensure the smooth supply of vital medicines, I am pleased that this agreement will ensure the Channel Tunnel is ready for a post-Brexit world.” Eurotunnel agreed to withdraw its case and take unspecified actions to improve security and traffic flow. “Eurotunnel has concluded an out-of-court agreement with the secretary of state for transport that will ensure that the Channel Tunnel remains the preferred route for vital goods to travel between the E.U. and the U.K.,” the company said. ​Amie Tsang is a general assignment business reporter based in London, where she has covered a variety of topics, including the gender pay gap, aviation and the London Fatberg.  @amietsang Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Bipartisan negotiations to forge a border security deal broke down yesterday, potentially setting up the federal government for another shutdown ahead of a Friday deadline.What happened? “The impasse appears to center on Democratic demands for a limit on the number of unauthorized immigrants already in the country who could be detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers, according to aides familiar with the talks,” according to the NYT. Republicans wanted an exception to the cap for criminals; Democrats said a proposed 16,500-bed cap left more than enough room for them.What’s at stake? The last shutdown, the longest in U.S. history, cost the American economy $11 billion and tanked President Trump’s political standing with the public. Another shutdown could cause more economic harm, hitting the I.R.S. just as tax season starts.What’s next? Lawmakers could pass another short-term spending bill, though many are reluctant to punt on a final budget agreement again. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump is preparing to hold a rally for supporters in El Paso. (Many in the city aren’t happy with that.) But he really has only two choices, according to Axios: shut down the government or declare a national emergency to get border wall money, and “both options are horrible.”The Amazon founder risked embarrassment by going public with what he said was an extortion attempt by The National Enquirer. So far, he’s scoring big points (“Saturday Night Live” jokes aside).His disclosure has gotten results. Federal prosecutors are reviewing his extortion claim, the NYT reports, citing unnamed sources. If The Enquirer’s parent company broke the law, it would be in violation of a nonprosecution agreement over its paying hush money to help President Trump in 2016. (A lawyer for the publisher’s chairman said yesterday that the company committed no crime.)And he’s winning the P.R. battle. At a time when billionaires are reviled, Maureen Dowd of the NYT writes, “the richest dude on earth has managed to come through a traumatic week inspiring admiration.” (Glenn Greenwald of The Intercept counters that it would be odd for Mr. Bezos to gain pity, given that Amazon “is a critical partner for the U.S. government in building an ever-more invasive, militarized and sprawling surveillance state.”)Where did The Enquirer go wrong? Danny Westneat of The Seattle Times points out that it picked a fight with the head of a company so powerful that it got Seattle to change its tax policies and won $3 billion in tax incentives from New York for office space. “You don’t pressure Amazon. It only goes the other way around,” Mr. Westneat writes.But Mr. Bezos could still lose. Jon Swartz of Barron’s notes that Amazon shares fell 2.6 percent on Friday. “His hands-on management is considered crucial to the success of the company and anything that pulls his attention away from day-to-day management is at least a concern for investors,” Mr. Swartz writes.Fears that Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. could roil economies have now officially spread across the Atlantic.Wall Street has been warned about Brexit’s impact. “With less than seven weeks to go before the U.K. is due to leave the E.U., several S&P 500 groups have for the first time put Wall Street on formal notice of the risks should London and Brussels fail to reach a divorce deal,” the FT reports. Companies like Lockheed Martin, McCormick, Expedia and Cadbury have all spoken out.Driving the concern are fears that a depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable in Britain, while the costs of imported British goods could rise. There’s also a fear about the broader effect of Brexit on global political and economic stability.American banks are also nervous. “While U.S. banks want Britain to maintain the closest possible ties with the EU after Brexit, U.K. banks and insurers are anxious they don’t become beholden to new laws made by Brussels,” Bloomberg reports.More Brexit news: The E.U.’s chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, said that he “will not reopen” the existing Brexit deal, but is open to reworking the political declaration that accompanies it. The British government is trying to secure an extra two weeks in which to win concessions from Europe by promising lawmakers another vote on Britain’s withdrawal options. And Prime Minister Theresa May has also offered concessions to the opposing Labour Party to break the current impasse in Parliament.Americans are getting a rude surprise: Their refunds appear to be getting smaller, despite President Trump and Republicans passing a huge set of tax cuts over a year ago.How big is the drop? “The average refund of $1,865 was 8.4 percent smaller than the average refund in the period last year,” Reuters reports, citing figures from the I.R.S. Heather Long of the WaPo adds that the number of people receiving a refund has fallen by nearly 25 percent so far. (The I.R.S. warns not to read too much into the figures, because this is just part of the data — a result of delayed processing due to the government shutdown.)Why is this happening? It’s not actually a sign that Americans are paying more in taxes. “People generally got a piece of their tax cut last year gradually in the form of lower withholding on their paychecks,” Joseph Rosenberg of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center told the WaPo.People are angry nonetheless. The WaPo reports: “People have already taken to social media, using the hashtag #GOPTaxScam, to vent their anger. Many blame President Trump and the Republicans for shrinking refunds. Some on Twitter even said they wouldn’t vote for Trump again after seeing their refunds slashed.”The last class of tech companies that gained valuations of over $1 billion, including Uber and Airbnb, remade entire industries. Don’t expect the next wave to be nearly as flashy, according to Erin Griffith of the NYT.Who are they? They have names like Benchling, Checkr and Zola, and many create software for specific industries — including data analysis systems for farmers and background checks for gig workers.Why aren’t they as exciting as their predecessors? Ms. Griffith points out that Uber, Airbnb and their peers “built global empires by simply taking existing businesses — like taxis, food delivery and hotels — and making them mobile.” Easy opportunities to disrupt traditional businesses have dried up, forcing new companies to find smaller niches.But don’t underestimate their potential. “Maybe it’s not as sexy as the companies in the first wave,” the venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded to the NYT. But Anand Sanwal of the data provider CB Insights said they were still growing fast, adding, “If you are one of those high-momentum companies, investors are going to be beating down your door because there is so much interest in investing in the next big winner.”Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, warned yesterday of a global economy “that is growing more slowly than we had anticipated.”She sees four big risks. “Trade tensions and tariff escalations, financial tightening, uncertainty related to Brexit outcome and spillover impact and an accelerated slowdown of the Chinese economy” are all “clouds” on the horizon, she told the World Government Summit in Dubai.And they could spell trouble. “When there are too many clouds,” she added, it takes just one lighting bolt “to start the storm.”But the I.M.F. thinks the Fed is playing smart. “The fact that the Fed has put a pause on raising rates is going to provide a lot of support to the economy,” Gita Gopinath, the I.M.F.’s top economist, told the FT. “We endorse the Fed view of having a data-driven approach.”President Trump is expected to sign an executive order today meant to spur the development and regulation of artificial intelligence, Cade Metz of the NYT writes.The news: Mr. Trump is to introduce the “American A.I. Initiative,” which aims to better educate workers in the field, improve access to the cloud computing services and data needed to build A.I. systems, and promote cooperation with foreign powers.Context: “A.I. experts across industry, academia and government have long called on the Trump administration to make the development of artificial intelligence a major priority,” Mr. Metz writes, adding that they are “concerned that China could surpass the United States” in the development of such technologies.But: “The order does not set aside funds for A.I. research and development,” Mr. Metz adds, “and the administration provided few details on how it will put its new policies into effect.”Steve Mandel has stepped down as the head of the hedge fund Lone Pine Capital.Among the reasons Santander rescinded its offer to hire the investment banker Andrea Orcel? Reportedly his desire to attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.Kristina Salen, a former chief financial officer of the shopping site Etsy, has joined Moda Operandi, a luxury fashion start-up, as its C.F.O.The English Premier League is looking to America for a successor to its C.E.O., Richard Scudamore. British candidates appear uninterested in the job.Deals• The aluminum-parts maker Arconic plans to break itself up. (WSJ)• Apollo Global Management is reportedly near a deal to buy Cox Enterprises’s 14 regional TV stations for about $3 billion. (Reuters)• The medical equipment maker Smith & Nephew reportedly held talks to buy NuVasive, a maker of medical instruments for spinal surgeries, for more than $3 billion. (FT)• TPG Capital closed its seventh Asia-focused private equity fund at over $4.6 billion. (Reuters)Politics and policy• Democratic lawmakers are proposing steep new taxes on the superrich — and the public loves it. (NYT)• Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado and a potential presidential candidate, says that cutting private health insurance as part of Medicare for all is a “bad opening offer.” (Politico)• President Trump succeeded in dividing Democrats by warning about socialism. (Hill)• The biggest star of Clive Davis’s exclusive pre-Grammys gala? Speaker Nancy Pelosi. (AP)Trade• Trade talks between the U.S. and China resume today in Beijing. (Straits Times)• White House officials have reportedly discussed a summit meeting between President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China at Mar-a-Lago next month to resolve the trade fight. (Axios)• The trade agreement to replace Nafta faces an uphill climb in Congress. (Axios)Tech• Some Amazon executives are reportedly reconsidering the decision to set up a campus in New York, but opponents think that might be a bluff. (WSJ, Recode)• Huawei has threatened to sue the Czech Republic if the country’s cybersecurity agency does not rescind a warning about the risk the company poses to the nation’s critical infrastructure. (NYT)• Sprint accused AT&T of false advertising, saying that its rival is incorrectly telling customers that they are receiving 5G data service. (WSJ)• Tesla may finally be delivering Model 3s, but now it can’t keep up with servicing them. (WSJ)Best of the rest• A new activist hedge fund, Impactive Capital, is a rarity: It’s female- and minority-led. (WSJ)• Household staples, from diapers to baking soda, may get more expensive. (WSJ)• U.S. colleges raised $46.7 billion in the year that ended last June, led by Harvard with $1.4 billion. (Bloomberg)• Here’s a rundown of the 100 most sustainable U.S. companies, according to Barron’s. (Barron’s)• How the Fed’s recent U-turn on rates cascaded through global markets. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ivan NechepurenkoMOSCOW — Russian lawmakers, moving to further restrict freedom of speech, passed bills on Thursday that would introduce jail terms and fines for insulting the government online or spreading so-called fake news.The bills are seen as an effort to pre-empt and control public criticism as Russia’s prolonged economic stagnation pushes down the Kremlin’s approval ratings. They reflect a nearly two-decade-long project by President Vladimir V. Putin to put information flow under state control, a push made more difficult by the growth of the internet.The new measures await final passage in the upper chamber of parliament and Mr. Putin’s signature. He has expressed support for restrictions against insulting the state online.One set of bills passed by the lower house, the Duma, would subject private individuals to fines of up to $3,000 or 15 days of administrative arrest for insulting the government online. Individuals would face fines of up to $6,000 for posting what is termed fake news.Another bill would demand that news media outlets and other websites remove any information that shows “clear disrespect” to the society, the state or its symbols, the Russian Constitution or the government. Internet service providers and website owners would have one day to remove the insults, or face a complete block.Lawmakers also passed a bill that would force websites to immediately remove any “false, publicly important information” that a government watchdog deems to be a threat to public order.The measures did not stipulate clearly what would be considered fake news. The authors said in interviews that this would be determined by state prosecutors and the government communications watchdog.Critics said that the measures were loosely defined to allow the government to block any information online that it finds undesirable.With the bills’ wording as “vague as possible,” Vladimir A. Ryzhkov, an opposition politician, said on Facebook, “it will create possibilities for the widest possible arbitrariness for law enforcement. As a result, the society’s trust in the government will fall down and the public atmosphere will be poisoned.”As more Russians switch from television — largely controlled by the state or Kremlin allies — to the internet as their main source of information, the government has made keeping the web under its control a top priority.In February, lawmakers proposed creating the infrastructure to separate Russia from the global internet altogether. Last year, the state banned Telegram, a popular messaging app.The Russian government has opened its assault on so-called fake news even as the United States has accused Moscow of engaging in the practice itself, through a disinformation campaign that was intended to sway the 2016 American presidential election.The new bills were passed as Russians’ trust in government agencies and Mr. Putin in particular has been steadily declining. For the first time since the annexation of Crimea in 2014, the number of Russians who say that the country is heading in the wrong direction has surpassed those who say the opposite. The finding came in a poll conducted in January by the independent pollster Levada.The share of people who approve of Mr. Putin’s work as president has declined by about 20 percentage points since it reached a post-Crimea peak of 86 percent in 2015.Nikolai F. Uskov, editor of Forbes Russia magazine and a frequent commentator, said that the bills were the government’s “weapon against the media.”“The government is clearly getting ready that protest moods will grow and that this will be reflected in publications in social networks and by the media,” he said, speaking at Ekho Moskvy, a radio station. “I don’t think this will save the state,” he added, “because the wave of anger will sweep away all restrictions.”Follow Ivan Nechepurenko on Twitter: @INechepurenko.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy David Zucchino and Fahim AbedKABUL, Afghanistan — Afghanistan’s coalition government fired on Tuesday all the commissioners who directed fraud-tainted parliamentary elections last fall, as the country prepares for a presidential race this summer and watches, with its leaders on the sidelines, peace talks unfold between Americans and the Taliban.The move follows a push by some opposition politicians to postpone the election and form an interim government that, as part of a peace deal, could include the Taliban. President Ashraf Ghani, who has fumed over the government’s exclusion from the American-Taliban talks, has insisted that the election be held on time.The firings, which came after a series of meetings between the government, civil society groups and political parties, were portrayed as a badly needed consensus on electoral reform. The commissioners called their dismissal a political decision by officials who hope to serve in a new government.The election had already been pushed back from April to July. The panel behind that decision, the Independent Election Commission, was one of two whose members were removed on Tuesday.Replacement commissioners named by Mr. Ghani and his coalition partner, Abdullah Abdullah, will be charged with preparing for a presidential election that will feature both men as candidates.Mr. Ghani has said that only a central government with a strong mandate can negotiate on behalf of the country. The Taliban, dealing directly with the Americans, have refused to include an Afghan government they consider illegitimate.Zalmay Khalilizad, the leader of the American delegation, said last week that he hoped to secure a peace deal before the July election. He said last month that the United States and the Taliban had agreed in principle to the framework of a peace deal.The Afghan election commission was widely accused of sowing confusion and disarray during and after the October parliamentary elections, which were three years late and tainted by accusations of vote-rigging, bribery and incompetence. Winners have been certified for only about a third of the 250 seats in Parliament.The attorney general’s office has prosecuted 313 people accused of violations including forging or selling election stickers and national ID cards needed to cast a vote.In a statement late Tuesday, the office said that the 12 commissioners from the two election bodies were barred from leaving the country, and that investigators had been appointed to look into charges of abuse of authority.The firings have set up a legal confrontation, with all of the dismissed members saying the move violated election law.“The amendment of the election law by a presidential decree of a president who is also a candidate is against the Constitution,” the commissioners said in a joint statement. “This is a political decision, not a legal or constitutional one.”Mr. Ghani’s deputy spokesman, Shahhusain Murtazawi, said the election results remain in place for now. He said protests could be lodged with the second affected commission, called the Independent Election Complaint Commission, or with judicial groups. The head of the commission’s secretariat remains in place as acting director.Given that the officials who administered the election have now been fired, some of the roughly 2,000 losing candidates are expected to protest. If the results are re-examined or canceled, it would affect preparations for a presidential election already behind schedule — with no assurance that the required funding is in place.One losing parliamentary candidate, Fawad Aman, said anyone seated in Parliament would remain under a cloud of suspicion. And if the commissioners were not punished, he said, Afghans could lose faith in the electoral process and refrain from voting.“If they are just dismissed and not prosecuted, it means this is a political game so that the president can have more influence in election commissions and the presidential election,” Mr. Aman said.Nayim Ayubzada, head of the Transparent Election Foundation for Afghanistan, an independent election monitoring group, said that the firings were made too hastily and that the government had paid too little attention to the legal process for addressing fraud accusations.“We worry about this decision because the president is a candidate himself and he may do all these things to turn things in his favor,” Mr. Ayubzada said. “If he decides so hastily about election issues, it will raise questions about the transparency of elections.”Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah will appoint new heads and members of the commissions, selected from candidates put forward by civil society groups and political parties within the next week.Supporters of the firings said they were necessary to make commissioners accountable for bungling an expensive election process that was secured by Afghan forces amid a raging war. Each Afghan election, bankrolled by international donations, has proved at least as problematic as the last.The 2014 presidential election was so fraudulent that, when the two leading candidates claimed victory, it nearly tore the country apart and prompted Western officials to step in as mediators. John Kerry, then the secretary of state, negotiated a power-sharing government between the top two candidates, Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah, with a promise that they would prioritize election reforms to avoid another fiasco.The two men were slow to make progress on reforms, given infighting in the government and the war with the Taliban. Now Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah get to name new commissioners to oversee an election during the peak of the summer fighting season and as the peace process plays out.Those challenges have left many Afghans skeptical of what new commissioners can do. Mr. Ayubzada, the election observer, said he doubted the presidential election would even be held this year, because the process was “so overshadowed by ongoing peace talks and political dealing.”Mujib Mashal contributed reporting from Kandahar, Afghanistan.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Democratic and Republican negotiators said last night that they had an “agreement in principle” on border security funding that could keep the federal government open.The deal includes $1.38 billion to pay for 55 miles of new fencing, technology and staffing for border protection. It’s not the $5.7 billion that President Trump had demanded to build a 200-mile wall. Democrats waived their demand for limits on detention capacity for immigrants.But there’s no guarantee that it will go through. The House and Senate would have to vote on the pact, and Mr. Trump would have to sign it. “I think everyone will say, ‘Good work,’ ” Representative Kay Granger of Texas, one of the Republican negotiators, said. Still, at a rally in Texas last night, Mr. Trump insisted that he will build a wall. And influential Republican commentators like the Fox News host Sean Hannity called the deal a “garbage compromise.”The remaining alternatives are hugely unattractive. Politico notes that a potential White House plan to redirect unspent federal funds toward the wall would “create a firestorm.” And another government shutdown could hit the U.S. economy and endanger aviation safety.The British prime minister is scheduled to update lawmakers later today on progress in negotiations on withdrawing from the E.U.She has a big favor to ask. Mrs. May is focused on making changes to the so-called backstop in her exit deal, which is designed to prevent a hard border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. She has made little headway. Bloomberg explains her plan for today:• Mrs. May will “update Parliament on the progress of talks with the E.U. and outline a motion she’ll put before M.P.s for debate on Thursday, her office said.”• She “is expected to ask Parliament to restate its demand to remove the backstop from the Withdrawal Agreement and to promise a further vote if she hasn’t brought a renegotiated deal back to Parliament by Feb. 27.”• The aim is “to reassure members from across the House of Commons who are concerned that May is deliberately running down the clock and risking a potentially disastrous no-deal divorce.”But the E.U. still isn’t budging. Its chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, said yesterday that “something has to give on the British side.”Yet Mrs. May could force her plan through Parliament. Bloomberg explains how, though it also admits that “a lot could go wrong.”More Brexit news: Britain had its weakest economic growth in six years last year. It has signed a trade deal with Switzerland, its biggest since the 2016 Brexit referendum. And its government is being sued for awarding a contract for freight shipments after a no-deal Brexit to a ferry company with no boats.The former Fed chairman recently sat down with Ray Dalio of Bridgewater Capital for a wide-ranging conversation, with topics from the state of the U.S. to the principles of good government. Don’t have time to watch? Here are the highlights:On Washington: Mr. Volcker lamented the condition of the U.S. government, repeating past criticisms. “You’ve got presidents who don’t seem to mind either personal behavior or making outrageous statements, true or not,” he told Mr. Dalio. “You have a Congress that’s been unable to function effectively.”On the Civil Service: For the former Fed chairman, an important problem to solve now is how to make government work again appear to be honorable. “Public administration’s a bad word now,” he told Mr. Dalio, leaving important government departments without effective leaders.What Mr. Volcker is doing: He has set up the Volcker Alliance, which is meant to help schools train future government officials. “It’s a great trick,” Mr. Volcker said. “How can you get the expertise and leadership you need and still respect the popular desire?”Optimism about personal finances hasn’t been this high in more than 16 years, according to a study by Gallup.Sixty-nine percent of Americans expect to be better off this time next year. That is “only two percentage points below the all-time high of 71 percent, recorded in March 1998,” according to Gallup. That’s in a survey carried out between Jan. 2 and Jan. 10, in the middle of the government shutdown.Half of respondents say they’re better off than they were a year ago. That figure had been consistently under half since 2007, Gallup says.The optimism is hard to overstate. “Only 11 times in 109 polls stretching back to 1976 have at least half of those polled said they were in better financial shape than they had been a year prior,” Gallup notes. “Only once in 114 polls going back to 1977 have Americans been more optimistic about their personal finances in the coming year than they are today.”“Europe is sleepwalking into oblivion, and the people of Europe need to wake up before it is too late,” George Soros writes in an opinion piece on Project Syndicate:• “Neither our leaders nor ordinary citizens seem to understand that we are experiencing a revolutionary moment, that the range of possibilities is very broad, and that the eventual outcome is thus highly uncertain.”• “The next inflection point will be the elections for the European Parliament in May 2019. Unfortunately, anti-European forces will enjoy a competitive advantage in the balloting.”• “The first step to defending Europe from its enemies, both internal and external, is to recognize the magnitude of the threat they present. The second is to awaken the sleeping pro-European majority and mobilize it to defend the values on which the E.U. was founded.”The firm said yesterday that it would buy Solium Capital, which manages stock paid out to corporate employees, for $900 million. It’s the biggest deal by a major Wall Street firm since the financial crisis — so what’s the rationale?The bank wants in on millennial wealth. Solium’s clients include start-ups, like Instacart and Stripe, which could go public at multibillion-dollar valuations — making some employees very rich.Wall Street approves of the strategy. Analysts at Evercore ISI wrote yesterday that Solium gives Morgan Stanley “a real path towards the organic growth and next generation of clients that many investors have been questioning.” Matthew Klein of Barron’s wrote last week that millennials could hold the key to improving American productivity — and wealth.And banks seem newly hungry for deals. Days before Morgan Stanley’s acquisition, BB&T agreed to buy SunTrust in the biggest bank merger since the 2008 crisis. Banking chiefs seem heartened by loosened regulations on their sector — and eager to capitalize through acquisitions. “We’d like to do more,” James Gorman, Morgan Stanley’s C.E.O., told the WSJ. (And JPMorgan Chase has reportedly considered buying the asset manager WisdomTree, according to Bloomberg.)It’s just eight months until Mario Draghi’s finishes his nonrenewable term as president of the European Central Bank. Choosing his successor is both important and difficult, the WSJ reports:• Investors have trusted Mr. Draghi, the WSJ says, as they navigate “a toxic mix of risks in Europe, from Brexit to trade wars.”• “At least five unofficial candidates appear to be in the running to replace him, according to European officials: two Frenchmen, two Finns and a German. The candidates have very different economic philosophies, and there is no clear front-runner.”• The winner might be chosen to balance the nationalities of the E.U.’s leadership, rather than purely on merit. The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo, chief executive of the Centre for European Policy Studies, a Brussels think tank, on the risks of that. “It’s the most systemically important job in Europe, this man controls the show,” he said. “It can go badly wrong.”WSJ reporters scoured fourth-quarter results from U.S. companies in an attempt to better understand the slowing of China’s economic growth.What they found: Many companies are “struggling with weaker demand from export manufacturers in China, which are pulling back amid fears that trade tensions will worsen,” Austen Hufford and Theo Francis of the WSJ report. “Retailers and other companies catering to Chinese consumers face signs of weakness among the country’s growing middle class. They are buying fewer cars, phones and are traveling less.”The conclusion: “The indications are that slowing growth there is broad, if still modest,” Mr. Hufford and Mr. Francis write.Just half of PG&E’s directors will stand for re-election this year after the utility filed for bankruptcy amid the California wildfires.Colgate-Palmolive named Noel Wallace, its C.O.O., as  chief executive, replacing Ian Cook.GV, the venture capital arm of Alphabet, hired David Schenkein, the former C.E.O. of Agios Pharmaceuticals, as its co-head of life sciences.Apple named Frank Casanova, a longtime iPhone executive, as its first head of marketing for augmented reality.Sony appointed Jim Ryan as C.E.O. of its PlayStation business.Deals• Colony Capital, the investment firm founded by the real estate mogul Tom Barrack, will explore selling assets after an activist hedge fund, Blackwells Capital, took a stake. (Colony)• SoftBank’s Vision Fund led a $940 million investment in Nuro, a driverless delivery start-up. (FT)• Amazon agreed to buy Eero, which makes wireless routers, to advance its smart-home ambitions. (Reuters)• Peloton, which makes video-streaming stationary bikes and treadmills, is reportedly interviewing banks to prepare for an I.P.O. (WSJ)• DoorDash, the delivery start-up, is reportedly in the process of raising $500 million at a $6 billion valuation. (WSJ)• Reddit raised $150 million from Tencent — and its users now fear censorship. (Verge)Politics and policy• President Trump and Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York will meet today to discuss revising a cap on deductions for state and local taxes. (Bloomberg)• Democratic presidential contenders see small donors, rather than traditional wealthy backers, as a test of viability for the 2020 race. (WaPo)• Contrary to popular belief, Mr. Trump’s presidency has hurt America’s gun lobby. (NYT editorial)Trade• President Trump is reportedly eager to meet with President Xi Jinping of China to discuss a trade deal. (Bloomberg)• American tariffs on Chinese goods have reduced the two countries’ trade imbalance — without helping U.S. companies. (Axios)• Chinese investments in Israeli tech companies are raising security concerns. (WSJ)Tech• What’s it like to be a contractor at one of Apple’s less glamorous offices? Not much fun. (Bloomberg)• Mars One Ventures, which promised one-way trips to the red planet, is bankrupt. (Verge)• If New York doesn’t want a new Amazon campus, Newark does. (Bloomberg)• Alphabet and Microsoft are discreetly warning that A.I. could harm their brands. (Wired)The Jeff Bezos saga• The American Media Inc. lawyer who reportedly sought a deal over Mr. Bezos’s private photos was once an Amazon Kindle executive. (WSJ)• American Media reportedly asked the Justice Department whether it needed to register as a foreign agent because of its ties to Saudi Arabia. (WSJ)• The WaPo has found itself in a tricky situation: reporting on its owner’s fight with The National Enquirer, while being a cause of the battle. (NYT)Best of the rest• Could leveraged loans sink the U.S. economy? (FT)• For two years, Goldman Sachs bet on companies with strong balance sheets. Not anymore. (CNBC)• The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says there’s a “mania” for share buybacks, and that he’s worried about the social consequences. (CNBC)• Toys ‘R’ Us is planning a comeback later this year. (NYT)• Is corporate America headed toward an earnings recession? (DealBook)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement
China DailyAdvertisementShareChina’s opening-up policies have led to improvements in life and business.The news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post’s creation.
AdvertisementSupported byNew Zealand’s prime minister moved swiftly to ban weapons of mass killing after a gunman attacked two mosques. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.The murder of 50 Muslim worshipers in New Zealand, allegedly by a 28-year-old Australian white supremacist, will be long scrutinized for the way violent hatreds are spawned and staged on social media and the internet. But now the world should learn from the way Jacinda Ardern, New Zealand’s prime minister, has responded to the horror.Almost immediately after last Friday’s killings, Ms. Ardern listened to her constituents’ outrage and declared that within days her government would introduce new controls on the military-style weapons that the Christchurch shooter and many of the mass killers in the United States have used on their rampages. And she delivered.On Thursday, Ms. Ardern announced a ban on all military-style semiautomatic and automatic weapons, parts that can be used to turn other rifles into such weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines. “It’s about all of us,” she said, “it’s in the national interest and it’s about safety.”Earlier in the week, she told Parliament that social media sites must address the ease with which the internet can be used to spew hate and images of violence. “We cannot simply sit back and accept that these platforms just exist and that what is said on them is not the responsibility of the place where they are published,” she said. “It cannot be a case of all profit, no responsibility.”Ms. Ardern didn’t propose immediate measures to limit the reach of Facebook, Twitter and other internet publishers, and it’s not obvious what could be done without trampling freedom of speech. But she made clear that she believed that those social media platforms, like gun manufacturers and dealers, bore some responsibility for the carnage visited on Christchurch and so many communities in recent years.The new gun proposal will require considerable fine-tuning and defining before it becomes law. New Zealand’s existing laws are relatively lenient, and a large percentage of the estimated 1.2 million to 1.5 million firearms owned by about 250,000 people are not registered. It is not known how many of these will become illegal under the new laws. But the display of what one deranged man can do with weapons designed for combat seemed to persuade a majority of New Zealanders, and a strong majority in Parliament, of the need to ban rapid-firing weapons.That attitude stood in stark contrast to the way the National Rifle Association and its political allies in the United States have resisted any restrictions on weapons like the AR-15, the semiautomatic rifle used in several mass killings.In New Zealand, it took one mass shooting to awaken the government. In the United States, even a string of mass killings — 26 dead in a school in Newtown, Conn.; 49 in a nightclub in Orlando; 58 at a concert in Las Vegas; 17 in a school in Parkland, Fla. — has not been enough. Nor has the fact that 73 percent of Americans say that more needs to be done to curb gun violence, according to recent polling. The ban on terrorists’ weapon of choice was only one of the areas in which Ms. Ardern showed what leadership looks like in time of crisis. In lieu of trite messages, she donned a black head scarf and led a group of politicians to visit victims’ families; speaking without a script to a school some of the victims attended, she urged the pupils to “let New Zealand be a place where there is no tolerance for racism. Ever.” She told grieving families, “We cannot know your grief, but we can walk with you at every stage.”And in a striking gesture, she refused to utter the name of the suspected killer. “He may have sought notoriety, but we in New Zealand will give him nothing,” she said. “Not even his name.”After this and any such atrocity, the world’s leaders should unite in clearly condemning racism, sharing in the grief of the victims and stripping the haters of their weapons. Ms. Ardern has shown the way.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
China DailyAdvertisementShareGet a 3D view of China’s government plans for 2019.The news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post’s creation.
AdvertisementSupported byThe journalist Maria Ressa is facing both criminal charges and social media threats. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. Harassing journalists is one of Rodrigo Duterte’s specialties. Mr. Duterte, the strongman president of the Philippines, has been going after Maria Ressa, a former CNN reporter and a founder of the online news site Rappler, for two years. The campaign against her combines criminal charges with Facebook smears intended to tarnish her reputation and spread lies about her work.Last week, Ms. Ressa spent a night in jail on a charge of “cyberlibel” for a 2012 article that Rappler published about allegations of corrupt ties between a businessman and a judge.When we spoke over Skype on Thursday about the attempts to silence her, she said, “I have to adjust that this is normal, even if there is nothing normal about this.” She added, “It does not scare me, but it is meant to scare everyone else.”Technically, she spent the night in a conference room, rather than a cell — because the National Bureau of Investigation agents were trying “to be nice,” she was told.It was perhaps a small gracious act in what has been a relentless assault on Ms. Ressa and Rappler.[Kara Swisher answered your questions on Twitter.]Rappler has been all over President Duterte’s brutal regime, publishing articles on extrajudicial killings and other human rights abuses. In mid-2017, in a State of the Union speech, the president struck back by criticizing Rappler for being owned by Americans (some of its investors are indeed from the United States). He attempted to get its license revoked. Ms. Ressa was then charged with tax evasion. Then the arrest for cyberlibel, which is considered a criminal act.While she seemed tired of these legal roadblocks, she was undaunted and even funny when we spoke. “I think I have paid more in bail than Imelda Marcos,” she said, referring to the shoe-loving wife of the longtime ruler of the Philippines who went down in ignominy.It was morning in Manila, but she was not doing any journalism. Instead, she was adding more security to Rappler’s offices to protect its 100 employees and forking over more money to pay for lawyers. Legal fees already account for a quarter of its operating budget, she said.She is also contending with the relentless manipulation of social media by what she says are government-friendly sources to spread false information about her and Rappler. These trolls focus on Facebook, which is where most Filipinos get their news. She has been called a foreign agent, a troublemaker, a tax cheat, a traitor and ugly. Last week, two people whom Ms. Ressa suspects were working for the government managed to slip into Rappler’s building and broadcast a video on Facebook Live from just outside its door urging protests and social media attacks. Among the comments on the feed: “Hang Ressa,” “Bomb Ressa” and “Behead her.”Government officials have said she is “enjoying” the attention. She is not, and Ms. Ressa reported the video to Facebook. She had already provided the company with copious evidence of the way its platform has been abused by Mr. Duterte’s troll army. This time Facebook responded by blocking the user who posted the video for 30 days (he may have popped up again on Facebook in Singapore, though).It’s a cat-and-mouse game, and Ms. Ressa said Facebook is haphazard about enforcing the rules. While individual executives have been helpful, Ms. Ressa said, she’s had a hard time dealing with Facebook, which has responded slowly. “Facebook is now the world’s largest distributor of news and yet it has refused to be the gatekeeper,” she told me in a recent onstage interview. “And when it does that, when you allow lies to actually get on the same playing field as facts, it taints the entire public sphere.” At some point, she said, Facebook has to “take down the lies.”As she noted to me on Thursday night, “A lie told a million times is truth.” On social media, though, that is more like a billion times.Ms. Ressa said she wished she had tried to stop the online abuse sooner: “We ignored it far too long and that is the lesson I have learned.”She said she would continue to try to work with Facebook and other social media outlets. “Looking at my social media feed is impossible now, since I can’t defend myself as I watch my reputation being dragged down,” she said. Lately, Ms. Ressa said, the attacks on her on Twitter have worsened. And I have been weirdly pummeled on the platform by users calling Ms. Ressa a con artist since I posted that I was speaking to her.To try to deal with it all, Ms. Ressa said, she thinks a lot about Reinhold Niebuhr’s Serenity Prayer. “I will look at stuff in my area of control, like making sure my staff is safe and we have a business to be able to continue to do what we are doing,” she said, with a weary sigh. “I don’t want to be the story.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLayWELLINGTON, New Zealand — In New Zealand, members of the public are accustomed to seeing their top government officials at the grocery store or on the street, unencumbered by security guards as is more common in other parts of the world.The country’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, even jokingly recounted to Stephen Colbert on the “The Late Show” about being approached by chatty strangers while she shopped for maternity bras.But on Thursday morning, a government minister was attacked while walking to work alone in the capital city, leading Ms. Ardern to warn that New Zealanders’ unusual level of access to the country’s lawmakers should not be taken for granted.“We have an environment in New Zealand where politicians are accessible, and that’s something we should feel proud of,” Ms Ardern said. “We are, after all, here to serve people. But today’s events really show we cannot take that for granted.”The victim, James Shaw, 45, a co-leader of the left-leaning Green Party and the minister for climate change, told the police that he was grabbed and hit in the Thursday morning attack, leaving him with a black eye and cuts on his face. After being treated at the scene, he went on to attend a meeting at Parliament before admitting himself for examination in a hospital, where he remained on Thursday afternoon.Pete Huggins, a Green Party spokesman, said Mr. Shaw had told the police that his assailant knew his name, although officers have not said whether they believe the attack was planned, or what motivated it.The episode rattled New Zealand, which Mr. Huggins described as “a very close-knit community and a very open society.”Unlike in many countries, including the United States and Britain, the prime minister is the only lawmaker accompanied round-the-clock by security personnel; government ministers and other lawmakers are not. Residents of Wellington, New Zealand’s capital, regularly see elected officials walking or cycling the streets alone, and some politicians opt to take public transportation rather than using government vehicles.“I would hate to see that go,” Marama Davidson, a lawmaker who leads the Green Party with Mr. Shaw, said during a news conference Thursday.“It would be a shame to lose the way that people can approach us and access us in this country,” she added. “That’s one of the things I value about the way we do politics here in New Zealand.”The police have arrested and charged a 47-year-old man in the attack on Mr. Shaw. The man, whom the police did not identify, will appear in the Wellington District Court on Friday.Lawmakers from across the political spectrum joined in condemning the attack. Wellington’s mayor, Justin Lester, wrote on social media that the assailant’s behavior had been “outrageous” and that New Zealanders were “lucky to have unparalleled access” to their elected representatives.Members of the public also expressed shock. One Twitter user branded the attack on Mr. Shaw “an assault on democracy.” Another said it was hoped that the attack was “an awful one off and not a canary in the coal mine moment” for New Zealand.Bryce Edwards, a veteran New Zealand political commentator, said that down-to-earth qualities commanded respect from New Zealanders. “We like our politicians to be ‘one of us’ not ‘above us,’” he said.While it was not clear whether the attack was politically motivated, some lawmakers took the opportunity to denounce what they said was a trend toward over-the-top reactions by people who disagreed with politicians.David Parker, the trade minister and a lawmaker for the center-left Labour Party, cited what he called “extreme opinion feeding political biases and causing instability in some people” that was “fed through social media platforms.”Ms. Ardern stopped short of saying that security should be beefed up for lawmakers. The episode took place in an inner-city area of Wellington, just minutes from Ms. Ardern’s residence.Violence against New Zealand lawmakers is rare. The last one to make global headlines in recent years was in 2016, when a then government minister, Steven Joyce, was hit in the face with a sex toy thrown by a protester, an episode that caused more mirth than fury.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Raymond Zhong and Paul MozurSHANGHAI — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei is preparing to sue the United States government for barring federal agencies from using the company’s products, according to two people familiar with the matter.The lawsuit is to be filed in the Eastern District of Texas, where Huawei has its American headquarters, according to the people, who requested anonymity to discuss confidential plans. The company plans to announce the suit this week.The move could be aimed at forcing the United States government to make its case against the Chinese equipment maker more publicly. It is part of a broad push by Huawei to defend itself against a campaign led by the United States to undermine the company, which Washington sees as a security threat. Executives have spoken out strongly against America’s actions, and new marketing campaigns have been aimed at mending the company’s image among consumers.For many years, United States officials have said Beijing could use Huawei’s telecommunication equipment to spy and disrupt communication networks. The company has denied the allegations, but major wireless carriers such as AT&T and Verizon have effectively been prevented from using Huawei’s equipment as a result.Over the past year, Washington has ramped up its pressure on the firm, which is preparing to take a major role in the construction of next-generation wireless networks around the world. American officials have urged other governments to ban the use of Huawei’s products. This year, the Justice Department filed criminal charges against the company and its chief financial officer in connection with evading American sanctions on Iran.A hearing that is set to begin this week in Canada will determine whether the company’s finance chief, Meng Wanzhou, will be extradited to the United States to face charges. Ms. Meng’s lawyers have sued the Canadian government and police, arguing that the circumstances of her arrest and detention in December violated her rights.[Many Canadians see Ms. Meng’s case as an example of foreign money’s influence in Vancouver.]The criminal case against Ms. Meng in the United States could be complicated by comments from President Trump as the White House has engaged in trade negotiations with China. While criminal cases have traditionally been independent matters, Mr. Trump indicated that Huawei’s fate could be a bargaining chip.During a meeting in the Oval Office with a delegation of Chinese officials last month, Mr. Trump said, “We’ll be making that decision,” when asked if he would drop the criminal charges against Huawei as part of the trade deal. He added, “We’ll be talking to the attorney general.”A lawsuit by Huawei against the United States is expected to challenge a section of a defense spending authorization law that was approved last year. The provision blocks executive agencies from using telecom equipment made by Huawei and another Chinese company, ZTE.According to one of the people familiar with the matter, Huawei is likely to argue that the provision is a “bill of attainder,” or a legislative act that singles out a person or a group for punishment without trial. The Constitution forbids Congress to pass such bills.Huawei’s plans are not final. It could still decide to change course, or to not file a lawsuit at all.The United States Embassy in Beijing did not immediately respond to a request for comment. A call placed outside business hours to the United States Court House in Plano, Tex., where Huawei’s American headquarters are, was not answered.[China announced espionage accusations against a former Canadian diplomat on Monday, days before Ms. Meng’s extradition hearing was set to take place.]In many ways, the Huawei case echoes that of another company that has aroused security concerns in the United States: the Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab.Around two years ago, American officials began expressing worries that Moscow could use the company’s software to gather intelligence. The company denied the allegations. But in September 2017, the Department of Homeland Security directed federal agencies to begin removing the company’s products from government systems. Congress then codified the ban in a spending law.Kaspersky filed two lawsuits in response, arguing that the prohibition amounted to a bill of attainder. In May, a judge in the District of Columbia dismissed the suits, ruling that Congress was motivated by the legitimate desire to protect government computer networks against Russian intrusion. The judge also said Kaspersky’s sales to the American government were such a small fraction of the company’s business that the ban was not especially harsh.An appeals court upheld the ruling a few months later. Banning Kaspersky was a “prophylactic, not punitive,” measure, the judge in the appeal, David S. Tatel, wrote.“Given the not insignificant probability that Kaspersky’s products could have compromised federal systems and the magnitude of the harm such an intrusion could have wrought, Congress’s decision to remove Kaspersky from federal networks represents a reasonable and balanced response,” Judge Tatel wrote.Raymond Zhong reported from Shanghai, and Paul Mozur from Hong Kong. Alan Rappeport contributed reporting from Washington.Follow Raymond Zhong and Paul Mozur on Twitter: @zhonggg and @paulmozur.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Azam Ahmed and Kirk SempleMEXICO CITY — Mexican officials are carrying out the Trump administration’s immigration agenda across wide stretches of the border, undercutting the Mexican government’s promises to defend migrants and support their search for a better life.The Mexican authorities are blocking groups of migrants at border towns, refusing to allow them onto international bridges to apply for asylum in the United States, intercepting unaccompanied minors before they can reach American soil, and helping to manage lists of asylum seekers on behalf of the American authorities to limit the number of people crossing the border.Breaking with decades of asylum practice, the Mexican government has also allowed the Trump administration to send more than 120 men, women and children to Tijuana while they await decisions on their asylum applications in the United States. The program could be expanded to other border crossings as soon as next week.Officials inside the administration of Mexico’s new president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, have called his stance on migrants a strategic decision not to anger President Trump.He doesn’t believe he can change Mr. Trump’s mind, they contend. Furthermore, the officials say, Mr. López Obrador has not wanted to jeopardize other aspects of the deeply interconnected relationship between the two countries, ranging from elaborate regional trading arrangements to information sharing on border security, transnational crime and terrorism. So he has avoided a bruising and potentially costly public fight over the issue.A lifelong defender of the poor, Mr. López Obrador often refers to his plans for Mexico as a grand transformation, placing his ambitions for the nation on par with those of its great leaders.He has burnished his everyman credentials by cutting government salaries, flying coach around the country and opening the opulent presidential palace to the public. He has also vastly reduced the number of Central American migrants Mexico deports from its soil.But not everything has transformed.Exhibit A is the Migrant Protection Protocols, the Trump administration’s policy to require asylum seekers to remain on the Mexican side of the border while they await decisions on their fate. Rights groups contend that it dumps migrants in an increasingly violent Mexico and impairs their access to legal counsel and family support in the United States.Mr. López Obrador’s administration, which came into office saying it would not cooperate with Mr. Trump’s anti-immigration agenda, has gone along with it on several fronts, including accepting women and children despite earlier promises to take only adult male asylum seekers.The Mexican government argued the policy requiring asylum seekers to wait in Mexico was imposed on them by the United States and they consented for humanitarian reasons.It is also true that for Mr. López Obrador, giving in to some of Mr. Trump’s border demands and rarely saying a word against the American president in his daily press briefings carries little political cost at home.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]To many Mexicans, the fate of migrants is secondary to domestic concerns about jobs, security and corruption. Mr. López Obrador retains an 80 percent approval rating, despite his government’s willingness to take back migrants applying for asylum in the United States.“If we have to accept a handful of people back into Mexico, that’s not really a problem for us, not even politically,” said one official who was not authorized to discuss internal deliberations. “What we really want to avoid is a public fight with Trump.”But in its effort to avoid a cross-border fight, the Mexican government has chosen politics over its humanitarian ideals, critics contend.“Mexico is continuing to play the role that the U.S. thinks it should, which is to contain the migrant influx, period,” said Melissa Vertiz Hernández, who coordinates the Working Group on Immigration Policy, a network of civil society and rights groups in Mexico.The delicate balance with the United States has left the Mexican government without a clear, consistent immigration policy, so Mexican states and municipalities along the border are often in the position of fending for themselves under pressure from their American counterparts.In the Mexican border city of Reynosa, for instance, almost no one is allowed to cross the bridge to apply for asylum in neighboring McAllen, Texas. They are typically blocked or apprehended by Mexican officials, forcing migrants to try their luck in other towns.In the city of Piedras Negras, officials rounded up hundreds of migrants who arrived in a caravan in recent weeks and kept them under tight watch in a shelter with limited access to outsiders, advocates say. After a public outcry, the center was closed and many were bused to other cities and towns along the border.The mayor of Ciudad Juárez, meanwhile, has threatened to sue a neighboring governor for shipping migrants to his town. It has become a game of political hot potato, with desperate Central Americans who are fleeing poverty and violence caught in the middle.Elsewhere along the border, shelter officials say they manage lists of asylum applicants by name, nationality, age and documentation to assist Mexican officials who are complying with American border patrol mandates.The Mexican government is resisting Mr. Trump in some ways, the official in Mr. López Obrador’s government insisted. Even acquiescing to the Trump administration on the Migrant Protection Protocols was done strategically, according to the official and two others briefed on the plan.By allowing the program to start in San Diego and Tijuana, the Mexican officials argued, legal challenges to it in the United States go to the federal courts in the Northern District of California, which are generally seen as liberal. This matters at a time when many Americans are focused on how to beat Mr. Trump in the 2020 elections, in particular by leveraging the Mexican-American vote.But many activists are far from confident that a legal challenge will put an end to the program.“I think it’s an incredibly risky move,” said Stephanie Leutert, the director of the Mexico Security Initiative at the University of Texas at Austin. “I don’t think you should put your country’s foreign and migratory policy in the hands of a civil society organization in another country.”On Feb. 14, that civil society organization, the American Civil Liberties Union, and several other advocacy groups filed a lawsuit challenging the Trump administration’s policy. A decision on a temporary restraining order is expected in the coming days.The lawsuit, filed on behalf of 11 asylum seekers who were returned to Mexico in recent weeks, accuses the Trump administration of violating federal and international migration and human rights laws.Advocates contend that by forcibly sending asylum seekers to Tijuana, the Trump administration has plunged them into an unfamiliar and dangerous environment where their lives may be in jeopardy.Killings in Tijuana have skyrocketed in recent years because of a turf war in the local drug market. In 2018, the city posted its deadliest year on record, with more than 2,500 killings.The Trump administration first announced the new policy in December, and on Jan. 28 the head of Mexico’s migration agency said the Mexican government had imposed restrictions on its enactment.But Mexican officials have backed down from many of those initial restrictions, including its refusal to accept women with children. Trump administration officials have said they plan to expand the program to other ports of entry along the border. The López Obrador administration has said little publicly about the changes.In Tijuana, several of the returnees — three single men, a single woman, and two mothers each traveling with three children — described their confusion and dismay at finding themselves in Mexico once again.“I have no idea how I’m going to survive,” said Yanira, a 34-year-old migrant from El Salvador who feared being pursued by the people she said she was fleeing in her home country.Yanira said she left El Salvador with her three children — ages 8, 11 and 12 — after a local gang tried to recruit her middle child and threatened violence unless he agreed.When she stepped onto Mexican soil again after being led back across the border by American officials, she broke down.“I cried and cried,” she recalled.Mexican officials have said they cannot provide shelter and care for the returnees, essentially leaving them to a network of community groups in Tijuana and elsewhere in the state of Baja California.But the shelter network has been under extraordinary pressure from the almost-continual arrival of migrants traveling in caravans, who have pushed the centers beyond capacity.Sister Salomé Limas, a social worker at the Instituto Madre Asunta migrant shelter in Tijuana, said it is currently housing about 120 women and children — in a space designed for 44.Among the migrants are several families who are seeking asylum in the United States and were returned in recent weeks under the Trump policy.Sister Salomé said the shelter can house the families until their first court date in the United States, in late March. After that, she is not sure.“What’s going to happen to them?” she said. “We don’t know.”Paulina Villegas contributed reporting from Mexico City.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)In the wake of two fatal crashes involving its 737 Max 8 airplane that shared similarities, Boeing finds itself with prosecutors and regulators inspecting its development processes and safety assessments.• A grand jury in Washington, D.C., issued a subpoena dated March 11 — the day after the Ethiopian Airlines crash — seeking documents from at least one person involved in the development of the 737 Max jets, the WSJ reports.• The Transportation Department inspector general’s office was also reportedly examining the plane’s design certification before the second deadly crash.• An investigation by The Seattle Times found that the F.A.A. delegated wide responsibility for the 737 Max safety assessment to Boeing itself. The resulting analysis included “crucial flaws,” according to the investigation.• And Bloomberg reports that as early as seven years ago, F.A.A. employees warned that Boeing “had too much sway over safety approvals of new aircraft.”Boeing said in a statement on Sunday that “aircraft certification processes are well established and have consistently produced safe aircraft designs.” It added that the “737 Max certification program followed the F.A.A.’s standard certification process.”The ride-hailing company will start the road show for its I.P.O. today in New York City. It won’t be short on ambition: Lyft hopes to achieve a valuation of as much as $23 billion.In its updated prospectus, Lyft said that it hopes to raise nearly $2.4 billion from its I.P.O. That figure is close to the $2.16 billion in revenue that it generated last year.At the high end of its proposed stock price, $68, the company would be valued at $23 billion. That would make the stakes held by each of the company’s founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, worth hundreds of millions of dollars apiece. The company is expected to price its offering on March 28, and would then trade on the Nasdaq the next day.Lyft is poised to become one of the biggest market debuts by a tech company since the Alibaba Group’s I.P.O. in 2014. (Until Uber goes public later this year, at least.)But the I.P.O. is not without controversy. It’s facing backlash from investors who aren’t happy about a dual-class stock structure. Paul Singer, the head of the activist hedge fund Elliott Management, is one of them, writing in an FT op-ed:“Those with the insight and daring to found a business deserve our respect. But once they sell the vast majority of the company to the public, they should not be allowed to run it forever without any shareholder input. Public ownership must mean public accountability.”The two German lenders announced yesterday that they will formally begin merger talks. Now they must convince critics that combining is a good thing.Deutsche Bank said it was reviewing “strategic options” for shoring up its profitability and growth. Christian Sewing, the firm’s C.E.O., told employees, “I have consistently stressed that consolidation in the German and European banking sector is an important topic for us.”The combined bank would be one of Europe’s biggest, with $2 trillion in assets and about one-fifth of all private customers in Germany.Going public signals that the deal has political backing. Germany’s finance minister has argued that the country needs a strong national champion to compete against foreign banks. (Here is the FT’s list of the key decision-makers for any deal.)But opposition to a merger is strong. German unions have criticized the plan, fearing tens of thousands of job cuts. And Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg Opinion warns that it wouldn’t fix the bigger problems in the German banking system.The Trump administration’s campaign to prevent countries from using Huawei equipment in their 5G wireless networks has faltered, Julian E. Barnes and Adam Satariano of the NYT write.American officials have been pressuring and threatening other nations to shun Huawei. The push is rooted in U.S. concerns that Chinese telecom companies are a significant security threat, and could help Beijing spy on other nations.But it’s not really working. Britain, Germany, India and the United Arab Emirates have all signaled that they are unlikely to follow America’s lead.The U.S. campaign has been criticized for a lack of evidence. American intelligence briefings have reportedly failed to clearly show how the Chinese government has used Huawei to steal information. (Read what five experts and two senators have to say about whether it is a threat.) Some European and Asian officials also believe that President Trump may not fully support the fight.American officials want to find other ways to curb Huawei’s rise, Mr. Barnes and Mr. Satariano write, “including possibly restricting American companies from supplying Huawei with key components that it needs to build 5G networks across the world.”More: Huawei has built its own operating system for smartphones and computers, to be used if the company can no longer use software developed by Google and Microsoft.The financial sector hasn’t felt the impact of #MeToo as much as other industries. But as David Gelles of the NYT reports, a lawsuit against the asset manager TCW could change that.• Sara Tirschwell, who created a distressed-debt fund at TCW but was fired in 2017, has sued the firm; her former boss, Jess Ravich; and the C.E.O., David Lippman. She claimed that her dismissal was retaliation against her for reporting a sexual harassment claim against Mr. Ravich, gender discrimination and a breach of contract.• Ms. Tirschwell alleges that Mr. Ravich pressured her into sex several times during her tenure with the firm. The first encounter made her feel, according to her lawsuit, “as if rejection would mean the end of Ravich’s crucial support.”• TCW, Mr. Ravich and Mr. Lippman denied the allegations. “I was Sara’s biggest supporter at TCW and had no role in the decision to fire her,” Mr. Ravich said.• So far, there’s been no talk of a settlement. Mr. Gelles writes, “Days in court have been rare for the movement — and rarer still for Wall Street, where grievances are typically dealt with in private, and by wire transfer, when they are dealt with at all.”Despite delivering disappointing returns to investors, many C.E.O.s saw their compensation climb last year, according to the WSJ.• “Median compensation for 132 chief executives of S&P 500 companies reached $12.4 million in 2018, up from $11.7 million for the same group in 2017,” the WSJ calculates.• “Most of these C.E.O.s received substantial raises — the median was 6.4 percent — even though the December stock-market swoon meant most of the companies finished out the year posting sluggish shareholder returns.”• “Markets did pretty well, companies did well, and the economy held up,” Robin Ferracone, an executive-pay consultant, told the WSJ.• But she also said that boards may have been thinking forward to an economic slowdown, adding, “They know they’re going to have to bring it down when the bloom’s off the rose.”The shooting at a mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand, was designed to go viral on the internet. What can we do about it?“The attack was teased on Twitter, announced on the online message board 8chan and broadcast live on Facebook,” Kevin Roose of the NYT writes. “The footage was then replayed endlessly on YouTube, Twitter and Reddit, as the platforms scrambled to take down the clips nearly as fast as new copies popped up to replace them.”“Online extremism is just regular extremism on steroids. There is no offline equivalent of the experience of being algorithmically nudged toward a more strident version of your existing beliefs,” Mr. Roose adds. “People become fluent in the culture of online extremism, they make and consume edgy memes, they cluster and harden. And once in a while, one of them erupts.”But telling terrorists from trolls isn’t easy for tech companies, Christopher Mims of the WSJ argues. Knowing which online extremists will erupt with an act of violence can be virtually impossible, and their broadcasts of sudden acts of violence can be hard to automatically block.More needs to be done. “We need to understand and address the poisonous pipeline of extremism that has emerged over the past several years, whose ultimate effects are impossible to quantify but clearly far too big to ignore,” Mr. Roose writes. “It’s not going away, and it’s not particularly getting better.”PG&E is reportedly close to naming Bill Johnson, the outgoing head of the Tennessee Valley Authority, as its next C.E.O.Google named Scott Beaumont, the head of its greater China and Korea operations, as the chief of its Asia-Pacific team.Stuart Benson resigned as the C.F.O. of MoviePass.Princeville Capital, a venture capital firm that invests in climate technology, has recruited Leonardo DiCaprio as an adviser.Deals• Fidelity National Information Services agreed to buy an international payments processor, Worldpay, for $34 billion. (The companies)• Caesars Entertainment and Eldorado Resorts are reportedly in early merger talks. (Reuters)• Private equity firms like KKR and CVC Capital Partners are reportedly interested in buying Bayer’s animal-health division. (Bloomberg)• PagerDuty, a popular start-up that alerts I.T. workers to tech problems that need fixing, publicly filed for an I.P.O. (Business Insider)Politics and policy• Investors eagerly await the Treasury Department’s rules for investing in tax-advantaged opportunity zones. (NYT)• Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro over a monologue questioning a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the U.S. — and President Trump was unhappy about the move. (NYT)• Cindy Yang, the former owner of a massage parlor busted in a prostitution ring, has come under scrutiny for political activities, including donations to the president’s re-election campaign. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May is expected to put her Brexit deal up for a third parliamentary vote this week, but that is likely contingent on gaining the backing of the Democratic Unionist Party. (FT)• Meanwhile, the Labour Party appears set to support a plan that would seek a public vote on Mrs. May’s deal if it is approved by lawmakers. (Reuters)Trade• The U.S. and China are pushing for a meeting in late April to complete a trade deal, but negotiators are still grappling over the details. (NYT)• The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska has sued the U.S. Treasury Department over sanctions placed on him last year. (CNBC)• President Xi Jinping of China starts a series of state visits to Europe this week in a bid to bolster trade with the continent. (Bloomberg)Tech• Marc Andreessen, a Facebook board member, reportedly met with the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Chris Wylie in 2016. If true, it would suggest he understood the extent of the company’s harvesting of Facebook data. He denies the claim. (Observer, Business Insider)• In related news, the academic behind Cambridge Analytica’s data mining has sued Facebook for defamation. (NYT)• Apple is making a billion-dollar bet to take on Netflix. Will it work? (NYT)• Tech investors are now including #MeToo clauses in their start-up deals. (FT)• Breaking up tech giants has suddenly become a populist concept — but not in San Francisco. (NYT, Bloomberg)Best of the rest• In the wake of the admissions scandal, colleges are rethinking athletic special admissions. (WSJ)• The Fed is likely to say later this week that it has little appetite for more interest rate rises this year. (WSJ)• Why do successful joint ventures turn sour? It’s often because the success breeds a desire for control that the venture sought to avoid. (Economist)• The European Central Bank is unhappy about the E.U.’s plans for increasing supervision of clearing houses. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew Higgins and Mujib MashalMOSCOW — Thirty years after the last Soviet troops retreated from Afghanistan, Russia on Tuesday reasserted itself as a player in the region, hosting talks between the Taliban and senior Afghan politicians aimed at speeding the exit of another superpower — this time the United States.The talks, held in Moscow’s President Hotel, which is owned by the Kremlin, offered a clearer view of how the Taliban see an end to the 18-year war. In a room dripping with chandeliers, more than 50 delegates — many in flowing robes, some in Western suits and ties, and nearly all old and sometimes violent rivals — faced each other across a large, circular conference table.While the Afghan politicians, part of a delegation led by former President Hamid Karzai, spoke of protecting the hard gains of the past two decades, the Taliban denounced a new Afghan Constitution that lays out a system of governance built at enormous cost.The Taliban representatives also offered a rare look at how they now see the role of women. While they barred women from public life during their time in power, they said they now believed in women’s rights, including to education and work — a claim met with skepticism by some women in Afghanistan.The Moscow gathering, which included a Taliban delegation led by their chief negotiator, Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, represented the most significant contact between senior Afghan politicians and the Taliban since the United States toppled the hard-line Islamist group from power at the end of 2001.Absent from the talks, however, was the American-backed Afghan government of President Ashraf Ghani, which has strongly criticized the meeting as an affront designed to undermine his office’s authority and the Afghan state.Mr. Ghani is in an uncomfortable position, at odds not only with his American backers, whom he sees as moving too quickly to reach a deal, but also with others in the country’s political elite who are rallying around the American-led effort.“What are they agreeing to, with whom? Where is their implementing power?” Mr. Ghani told the Afghan channel ToloNews on Tuesday, dismissing the talks. “They could hold a hundred such meetings, but until the Afghan government, the Afghan Parliament, the legal institutions of Afghanistan approve it, it is just agreements on paper.”The delegation headed by Mr. Karzai consisted entirely of former officials, representatives of political parties — many of them involved in the country’s bloody civil war — and current members of Parliament. There were only two women in the group.Afghans on social media were critical of the delegation, questioning whether they represented Afghanistan.“Those who are in the meeting in Moscow, they have been pushed aside,” said Khaled Abedy, 31, who works at a private company in Kabul, the Afghan capital. “They just want to build their own business. The country isn’t important to them. I think this sort of meeting can’t help the peace process at all.”But Atta Muhammad Noor, one of the Afghan politicians in the delegation in Moscow, said the participants there considered themselves to be more representative of Afghanistan than Mr. Ghani’s government.“We have been fighting for 40 years, and we are the people with influence, not Ghani,” said Mr. Noor, who was the longtime governor of Balkh Province before Mr. Ghani dismissed him last year.Speaking on the sidelines of the event, he said that all foreign forces, including around 14,000 American troops, must leave Afghanistan. But he cautioned that they should be withdrawn gradually, to avoid a repeat of the chaos that engulfed Afghanistan after the abrupt Soviet pullout in 1989.The talks, scheduled to last two days, opened just a week after American diplomats and Taliban representatives ended six days of negotiations in Doha, the capital of Qatar. Each side said those negotiations had made progress toward ending a conflict that began when the United States invaded Afghanistan in 2001, not long after the terror attacks of Sept. 11.Both sides said they had agreed, in principle, to a framework on two issues: a Taliban guarantee that Afghan soil would never again be used by terrorist groups like Al Qaeda, and a pledge from the United States to withdraw its troops. But many Afghans are concerned that the Americans might be too eager to strike a deal.The organizer of the Moscow talks is ostensibly the Afghan diaspora in Russia, not the Russian government. But Afghan officials and Taliban members have said that the Kremlin is playing a major role orchestrating the meeting behind the scenes.Russia, chastened by the damage done to the Soviet Union during its occupation of Afghanistan, has shown no interest in getting involved militarily again, at least not directly. But it has positioned itself as a force to be reckoned with, relishing Washington’s agonies at the hands of Taliban insurgents.Russia designated the Taliban a terrorist organization in 2003, and at first strongly supported American efforts to purge Afghanistan of extremist Islamist groups, which President Vladimir V. Putin described as a threat to Russia’s security.But amid a rising Cold War-style rivalry between Moscow and Washington, Russia has hedged its bets by opening channels with the Taliban. Moscow allowed a 10-member delegation from the Taliban, still officially barred as terrorists, to enter Russia for the Moscow talks.On Tuesday in Afghanistan, the violence continued unabated. The Taliban attacked police and army outposts around the northern city of Kunduz before dawn, killing at least 23 members of the Afghan security forces. In Takhar Province, gunmen attacked a women’s radio station, killing two staff members.Mr. Karzai made an appeal to end the bloodshed, saying Afghan soldiers and Taliban fighters were buried next to each other.“All around them in these graveyards are the regular Afghans — their graves are plenty,” Mr. Karzai said. “The dream of every mother, the hope of every father is buried there.”Mr. Karzai was first installed as Afghanistan’s leader by the United States in late 2001, but the relationship soured. He has visited Russia often since leaving office in 2014, and in meetings with Mr. Putin and other officials he has aligned himself with Moscow’s view that the United States must leave Afghanistan, as the Soviet Union did.Mr. Stanekzai, the Taliban’s chief negotiator, said in a speech lasting more than half an hour that the group did not seek to monopolize power inside Afghanistan. He said that they were pursuing an Islamist government, “in consultation with all Afghans,” and that the group did not recognize the country’s current Constitution, calling it copied from the West.Perhaps the most revealing part of his speech came when he described the Taliban’s view of a future role for Afghan women. When in power, the group sent its religious police to patrol the streets, giving out lashes to women for, among other things, showing their ankles.“We are committed to all rights given to women by Islam,” Mr. Stanekzai said. “Islam has given women all fundamental rights — such as trade, ownership, inheritance, education, work and the choice of partner, security and education, and a good life.”Considering the group’s history, some Afghan women immediately questioned the statement’s sincerity.But Fawzia Koofi, a female member of the Afghan Parliament and one of the two women in attendance, said she was happy to have heard the Taliban promise that women would not be stripped of their rights and would be allowed to serve as prime minister — though not as president.However, she cautioned, “We have gained so much in the last 18 years, whatever the problems, that we do not want to go back the Taliban period.”Andrew Higgins reported from Moscow, and Mujib Mashal from Kabul, Afghanistan. Najim Rahim contributed reporting from Mazar-i-Sharif, Afghanistan; Fahim Abed and Fatima Faizi from Kabul; and Taimoor Shah from Kandahar, Afghanistan.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Christine HauserIt is like an online matchmaking service. Horse lovers who want to adopt a wild mustang from the western United States can browse dozens of headshots.From drop-down menus, you can choose gender, color and age: a 4-year-old chestnut mare, for example, or a 9-year-old gray gelding. Some horses have no training, while others might be “gentled,” with experience being handled.This is Wild Horses Online, part of the federal Bureau of Land Management’s online adoption service. Starting this month, the bureau is trying to make wild mustang adoptions more attractive by paying $1,000 to those who take in the animals, which are gathered up from public land in the western United States as part of efforts to manage the population.The adoption program, which began on March 12, is intended to encourage potential owners to take the leap into adopting wild horses, whose access to pasture and water is challenged by factors including a rising population and droughts, said Deborah Collins, the bureau’s outreach officer.Ms. Collins said the government hoped people would “take a fresh look” at owning a wild horse and say to themselves: “I got a little help now. I can go find me a trainer.”The program is the first incentive of its type that the Bureau of Land Management has offered since the Wild Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act of 1971 detailed the agency’s duties as the legal custodian of wild horses and burros in the United States.Previously, people adopted a wild mustang by paying $125. Now, they are paid $500 up front and receive the $500 balance once they prove they have owned the animal responsibly for a year, Ms. Collins said.Carrie and Jim Pacileo of Powell, Wyo., drove six hours on March 15 to an adoption event in Rock Springs. The couple already had adopted two mustangs, one completely trained and the other partly trained, but they wanted more.“I told my husband I wanted to try to train some that were completely wild,” Ms. Pacileo said.They came home with two mustangs: 9-month-old Remmi and 11-month-old Stormy.“Being younger, we thought maybe it would be easier,” Ms. Pacileo said.She said the money they receive for adopting the horses would be invested in equipment and hay production on their 40 acres.“I wanted them because to me, they are just like the ultimate symbol of America,” she said.More than 66,000 wild horses and about 15,000 burros roam on about 26 million acres in 10 states, the bureau’s latest data shows. The ideal level for both populations combined is about 26,690, according to the bureau.The challenge for the bureau is to balance the population of these animals with available resources on public and private lands. Some have been found rambling along highways or foraging in backyards, or they are discovered on open range, emaciated and dying of thirst, Ms. Collins said.The main method of population control has been to simply move them. From July through February, helicopters chase the wild horses into corrals or other facilities where they can be made available for adoption, or sold if they are not adopted.Last year, more than 11,000 horses and burros were removed from public lands, the most in nearly a decade, the bureau figures show. As of last month, about 50,000 horses were available for adoption in corrals or in off-range pastures that had been there long-term, Ms. Collins said.Some of the bureau’s measures have attracted controversy over its use of helicopters to chase the animals and its removal of horses from open range as its primary method of population control. Some have worried that wild horses could end up in slaughterhouses abroad.The American Wild Horse Campaign, an advocacy group, said in a statement criticizing the bureaus’s new adoption program that the agency should employ other population control measures, such as fertility methods. “The B.L.M. cannot adopt its way out of the situation it faces with the stockpiling of 50,000 horses in holding facilities,” said Suzanne Roy, the group’s executive director.Ms. Collins said the bureau had tried fertility measures, including sending volunteers to administer birth control vaccinations to mares in the wild. But the effects of the vaccinations last only a year to 18 months, and the results have not adequately addressed overpopulation, she said.The bureau’s push to make adoptions more enticing has focused on training. The agency has been working with the nonprofit Mustang Heritage Foundation, which started Extreme Mustang Makeover, a national competition in which trainers have about 100 days to turn a wild mustang into a well-behaved steed.Wild mustangs are also trained at some federal prisons in rehabilitation programs that are coordinated with the bureau.The $1,000 adoption payout costs the bureau half of what it would to keep each animal for a year, Ms. Collins said. For owners, mustangs cost less to keep than other breeds, such as thoroughbreds or quarter horses, said Mary Santagata, who adopts and buys mustangs at All the Kings Horses, a rescue organization in Northford, Conn.Adopted mustangs have current vaccinations, Ms. Santagata said, but annual veterinary care could cost about $300 “if there are no problems.” About $50 every eight to 10 weeks goes toward having their hooves professionally trimmed. Many owners just feed their mustangs hay, similar to their diet on the open range, rather than more expensive grain with the hay, she said.“They are so hardy,” Ms. Santagata said. “They are built to survive.”Other costs include adapting corrals with six-foot-high paneled fencing so the wild horses cannot escape, and providing them with open-sided sheds that they can enter themselves when they need shelter, because they are not easily led.The most expensive part of owning a wild horse, Ms. Santagata said, is paying for experienced trainers. At 41, she has been around horses all her life, but she said she could handle only basic “gentling” of a wild mustang. When the horses are in her corrals, she uses a soft opening, by approaching and retreating, so they get accustomed to her.“You walk around it and see how it reacts to you,” she said. “I have had mustangs that would not look at me for months.”She gradually introduces them to halters and to being led around, which she is able to accomplish in about three months, she said. For advanced skills like riding, she sends the mustangs to professionals, but not before she has grown to know them.“I look at them like I am adopting a living legend,” Ms. Santagata said. “They are a mystical creature out in the wild, and only a few lucky ones can find them.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas CaseyBOGOTÁ, Colombia — Jorge Ramos, a news anchor for the television network Univision, said he was detained by the Venezuelan government during a confrontational interview with President Nicolás Maduro on Monday evening at the Miraflores Palace in Caracas.“He didn’t like the things we were asking him about the lack of democracy in Venezuela, the torture and the political prisoners,” Mr. Ramos recounted on a Univision broadcast, after he said he was released by the government.Mr. Ramos said he had been detained for “more than two hours” before he was let go and allowed to return to his hotel. He said the government had confiscated his crew’s equipment, including their phones and memory cards.“We don’t have anything,” he said. “They have the interviews.”On Monday night, Kimberly Breier, the assistant secretary of state for the Western Hemisphere at the State Department, said that Mr. Ramos had been detained and called on the government to release him immediately.“The world is watching,” she wrote on Twitter.Venezuela’s government did not dispute the account of Mr. Ramos being temporarily held, but appeared to lay the blame on the anchor.“We don’t lend ourselves to cheap shows,” said Jorge Rodríguez, the government communications minister.He added, “Hundreds of journalists have come through who received decent treatment that we always give to those who do journalistic work.”Mr. Ramos, a Mexico-born American journalist, is known for his confrontational questions, particularly with leaders who have attacked the press. In 2015, he tangled with Donald J. Trump, then a presidential candidate, during a news conference in which Mr. Trump eventually had guards force him out of the room.“Go back to Univision,” Mr. Trump said.Univision is the largest Spanish-language television network in the United States.Mr. Maduro has until recently stuck to friendly interviews with state television outlets.But since the current crisis, where he faces a major challenge from Venezuela’s opposition, whose leader, Juan Guaidó also claims the presidency, Mr. Maduro has conducted a number of interviews with international media outlets including the BBC, Eurovision and ABC, which also conducted an interview with him on Monday.In the ABC interview, Mr. Maduro defended himself against criticism for blocking aid shipments, which the opposition and the White House demanded he let pass over Venezuela’s borders with Colombia and Brazil.“Everything the United States government has done is doomed for failure,” Mr. Maduro said. “They’re trying to fabricate a crisis to justify political escalation and a military intervention in Venezuela to bring a war to South America.”Mr. Ramos said he had been showing images of children eating out of a dumpster to Mr. Maduro, a common sight in Venezuela, where the president has presided over shortages of food and medicine.“He got up from the interview,” Mr. Ramos said. “Immediately afterward, one of his ministers, Jorge Rodríguez, came to say the interview wasn’t authorized.”Then, Mr. Ramos said, he was detained.Later on Monday night, Mr. Ramos, who writes a column that is syndicated by the New York Times Licensing Group, told Reuters that he and his crew would be deported on Tuesday.videoAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Stephen Colbert admitted that he’s happy to see President Trump and Congress apparently nearing a border security deal, which would help avert a government shutdown. But he said that he wished he could press reset on the political conversation.“We’re supposed to care whether Trump won and Nancy lost, or Trump caved and Nancy’s dancing in the end zone,” he said. “But nothing — nothing — that has happened in government in 2019 has affected anyone. Where’s the infrastructure bill? Where’s the immigration bill? Where’s the fix on health care? We are celebrating — or supposed to be celebrating — that they’re close to a deal to achieve the absolute minimum: having a government!”Colbert pointed to reports that preparations for a possible border wall have already damaged butterfly habitats in Texas. He argued that Trump ought to have more sympathy for the insects.“After all, he’s got a lot in common with butterflies. They’re both fragile creatures with bright, iridescent coloring and paper-thin skin. It’s just that Trump has never left the larval stage.” — STEPHEN COLBERTColbert also tweaked Democrats after he showed a clip of Representative Nita Lowey insisting that lawmakers had agreed to fund a partial “barrier,” but not a “wall.”“Oh, not a wall, a barrier! A clinching legal argument first made in the landmark case Potato v. Potato.” — STEPHEN COLBERTJimmy Kimmel isn’t so excited about the recent news that a sequel to the film “Frozen” will come out in the fall.“Just when the ‘Baby Shark’ song’s finally starting to get out of our heads, there’s a new batch of ‘Frozen’ songs on the way. For those who don’t have kids, ‘Frozen’ is a street-legal drug for children that’s 10 times as addictive as ‘Paw Patrol’ and gummy worms combined. In this one, Disney will finally answer the question, ‘What if we made a bunch of money again?’” — JIMMY KIMMELTrevor Noah is not at all excited about Howard Schultz’s middle-of-the-road potential candidacy. He criticized Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, for saying during a CNN town hall that he doesn’t “see race.”“It would be, like, ‘How are you going to solve black unemployment?’ And this guy would be like, ‘What do you mean black unemployment? All I see is staggering unemployment among people named Jamal. Anyway, it’s February, so happy History Month!’” — TREVOR NOAH“Tomorrow is Valentine’s Day. St. Valentine, of course, was the patron saint of seasonal marketing.” — STEPHEN COLBERT“Tomorrow, Auntie Anne’s is offering a special on heart-shaped pretzels. It’s a great deal for all you hopeless romantics taking your dates to La Guardia.” — JIMMY FALLONSamantha Bee went to bat for the ambitious Green New Deal plan that Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez unveiled this month.On “Conan,” the Kay Jewelers Tinder Collection featured such bejeweled inscriptions as “Please Don’t Murder Me” and “What’s Your Last Name?”Bradley Cooper, the director and star of “A Star Is Born,” will be on “The Late Show” on Thursday. With the Oscars just 10 days away, anticipation will probably hang in the air.Aubrey Plaza will be hosting the Film Independent Spirit Awards this month. She’s a die-hard fan of independent cinema, and is looking forward to bringing back the “more intimate vibe” that this awards show had before it was televised.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Declan WalshCAIRO — President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan imposed a yearlong state of emergency and dissolved the federal and state governments on Friday, in an attempt to end months of nationwide street protests that have shaken his authority after three decades of rule.In a televised address broadcast live from the presidential palace in Khartoum, Mr. al-Bashir declared the state of emergency, disbanded the federal government, and replaced the state governors with military generals.Mr. al-Bashir also said he was pausing, if not ending, his effort to amend Sudan’s constitution so he could run for a third term of office when the current one ends in 2020.Reuters, citing a presidential statement, reported Friday night that Mr. al-Bashir had appointed a caretaker administration, leaving the current defense, foreign and justice ministers in place.In his speech. he acknowledged the economic hardship that triggered the first protests in December, but said the protest movement had been hijacked by elements with “agendas” to achieve “zero sum scenarios.”Mr. al-Bashir, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court on charges of war crimes, has ruled Sudan with an iron fist for decades, and the immediate implications of the state of emergency were unclear. It seemed to signal a hardening of his attitude toward the protests, which have been led by young professionals angered by the economic decay and corruption that have become hallmarks of Mr. al-Bashir’s rule.The demonstrations first began on Dec. 19 in the town of Atbara, and were focused on the soaring bread prices. They quickly grew into a movement calling for the ouster of the president, with near daily protests spreading to cities across the country.The protesters come from across Sudanese society, including sections of a shrinking upper middle class that has withered with the country’s precipitous economic slide. Soaring fuel prices have caused factories to close, and youth employment stands at about 27 percent, according to World Bank estimates.“Our country is passing through a difficult and complicated phase in our national history,” Mr. al-Bashir said in his speech on Friday.He has blamed external factors for the collapse, but protesters say it stems from decades of kleptocratic, incompetent rule. Their frequent chant during marches — before riot police arrive with tear gas and sometimes bullets — is, “Just fall, that is all!”Protest leaders say that more than 1,000 people have been arrested in a crackdown led by the feared National Intelligence and Security Service. Internet access has been restricted in an effort to block social media posts used by the mostly young protesters to organize demonstrations.The government has said that 31 people have died in protest-related violence. Human Rights Watch has put the toll at 51 people killed since mid-December.On Friday, Mr. al-Bashir stumbled several times as he read his speech. In an attempt to mollify the protesters, he offered prayers for those killed and announced plans for economic reform under the new government, which has yet to be fully formed. He invited the opposition “to move forward and engage in dialogue regarding the current issues of our country.”In recent years, Mr. al-Bashir has fired or marginalized potential rivals for power, and little in his long rule suggests a new willingness for rapprochement.Mr. al-Bashir came to power in a military coup in 1989, and since then Sudan has endured famines, American missile strikes, isolation and a civil war that led to the independence of South Sudan in 2011. Two years before that, the International Criminal Court ordered Mr. al-Bashir arrested on charges he played an “essential role” in atrocities, including murder, rape, torture and displacement of civilians during the conflict in the Darfur region of Sudan.In 2017, the United States lifted sanctions on Sudan, but the relief failed to stem a steep economic decline. Mr. al-Bashir has lobbied the State Department to remove Sudan from a list of state sponsors of terrorism, a factor in the country’s economic woes.Before the televised address, Sudan’s intelligence chief, Salah Abdallah Gosh, told reporters that Mr. al-Bashir would announce his resignation as head of the ruling National Congress Party.But Mr. al-Bashir said nothing in the speech about his party, and activists fear the state of emergency could presage even harsher measures against their movement.In the immediate aftermath of his speech, however, demonstrators appeared undeterred. Videos posted on social media suggested that protests against his rule continued in Khartoum.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ceylan YeginsuBritain’s chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, delivered a statement on the country’s economy on Wednesday that was something of a fiscal nonevent, with the specter of Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, or Brexit, hanging over every economic projection.Mr. Hammond’s main message — that he could deliver more funds for public spending only if the British Parliament reaches a deal on Brexit — came a day after lawmakers rejected Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan by a large margin.With Mrs. May sitting behind him, Mr. Hammond conspicuously called for lawmakers “to put aside our differences and seek a compromise” on Brexit, something neither the prime minister nor the Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, has yet accepted.“Higher unemployment, lower wages, higher prices in the shops. That is not what the British people voted for in June 2016,” he said, referring to the 2016 referendum to leave the European Union.Here are five takeaways from the chancellor’s spring statement.The uncertainty surrounding Brexit and a slowdown in the global economy has cut growth in 2019 to 1.2 percent from the 1.6 percent projected in last year’s autumn budget.The British economy is set to grow by 1.4 percent in 2020 and by 1.6 percent in the following two years, according to official forecasts from the independent Office for Budget Responsibility.One bright spot is wage growth, which has been revised upward to at least 3 percent each year, with the work force expanding by 600,000 by 2023, Mr. Hammond said.With public sector borrowing trending down, Mr. Hammond pledged to increase the Brexit dividend to 26.6 billion pounds, about $35 billion, but that comes with a catch: British lawmakers would have to vote pronto to leave the European Union with a deal.In a statement, the Office for Budget Responsibility attributed the improved fiscal climate to higher income tax receipts and lower than expected interest costs.Once again, Mr. Hammond hedged the good news with a familiar caveat: Parliament first has to agree on a deal for Brexit.A smooth Brexit will see a “deal dividend,” an economic boost that will free up resources for schools, police and social care, areas that have suffered significantly from over a decade of budget cuts under the conservative government’s austerity policy.Analysts were quick to point out that the government has been making such promises for some time now, but the promised spending increases have failed to materialize.“The repeated promise that austerity is coming to an end will ring hollow for the millions of low wage, disabled and unemployed people who will see their social security and tax credits frozen for another year from April,” Dr. Mary-Ann Stephenson, the director of the Women’s Budget Group, said on Wednesday.The government will fund free sanitary products in secondary schools and colleges in England in response to concerns that some girls are missing school because they cannot afford to buy their own products, Mr. Hammond said.The announcement comes after a two-year campaign started by Amika George, 19, who had read reports that schoolgirls in the northern city of Leeds were using newspaper, socks and toilet paper because they could not afford sanitary products and would sometimes miss school to avoid embarrassment.“It’s definitely a really huge number,” Ms. George said in a phone interview. “This isn’t a small minority of people that it’s affecting at all. It’s definitely prevalent, and it’s something that the government needs to take action on.”Knife crime, which rose for the fourth straight year in 2018, is a hot-button issue these days. To help address it, an additional 100 million pounds, or $130 million, will be made available for police forces across England and Wales to help tackle knife crime, which has risen for a fourth consecutive year.Police funding in England and Wales fell by 19 percent between 2010-11 and 2018-19, the National Audit Office says.The extra funding will be spent on additional overtime targeted on knife crime and new violent crime reduction units, Mr. Hammond said.The announcement falls short of the 200 to 300 million pounds, about $260 million to $390 million, requested by the National Police Chief’s Council last week.Advertisement
Sophisticated surveillance, once the domain of world powers, is increasingly available on the private market. Smaller countries are seizing on the tools — sometimes for darker purposes.NSO, a private company based in Herzliya, Israel, has hired former government hackers to ply their trades for foreign governments.CreditCreditCorinna Kern for The New York TimesSupported byBy Mark Mazzetti, Adam Goldman, Ronen Bergman and Nicole PerlrothThe man in charge of Saudi Arabia’s ruthless campaign to stifle dissent went searching for ways to spy on people he saw as threats to the kingdom. He knew where to go: a secretive Israeli company offering technology developed by former intelligence operatives.It was late 2017 and Saud al-Qahtani — then a top adviser to Saudi Arabia’s powerful crown prince — was tracking Saudi dissidents around the world, part of his extensive surveillance efforts that ultimately led to the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. In messages exchanged with employees from the company, NSO Group, Mr. al-Qahtani spoke of grand plans to use its surveillance tools throughout the Middle East and Europe, like Turkey and Qatar or France and Britain.The Saudi government’s reliance on a firm from Israel, an adversary for decades, offers a glimpse of a new age of digital warfare governed by few rules and of a growing economy, now valued at $12 billion, of spies for hire.Today even the smallest countries can buy digital espionage services, enabling them to conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping or influence campaigns that were once the preserve of major powers like the United States and Russia. Corporations that want to scrutinize competitors’ secrets, or a wealthy individual with a beef against a rival, can also command intelligence operations for a price, akin to purchasing off-the-shelf elements of the National Security Agency or the Mossad.[For more stories about the changing nature of warfare, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]NSO and a competitor, the Emirati firm DarkMatter, exemplify the proliferation of privatized spying. A monthslong examination by The New York Times, based on interviews with current and former hackers for governments and private companies and others as well as a review of documents, uncovered secret skirmishes in this burgeoning world of digital combat.The firms have enabled governments not only to hack criminal elements like terrorist groups and drug cartels but also in some cases to act on darker impulses, targeting activists and journalists. Hackers trained by United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople and human rights workers in their net. Cybermercenaries working for DarkMatter turned a prosaic household item, a baby monitor, into a spy device.The F.B.I. is investigating current and former American employees of DarkMatter for possible cybercrimes, according to four people familiar with the investigation. The inquiry intensified after a former N.S.A. hacker working for the company grew concerned about its activities and contacted the F.B.I., Reuters reported.NSO and DarkMatter also compete fiercely with each other, paying handsomely to lure top hacking talent from Israel, the United States and other countries, and sometimes pilfering recruits from each other, The Times found.The Middle East is the epicenter of this new era of privatized spying. Besides DarkMatter and NSO, there is Black Cube, a private company run by former Mossad and Israeli military intelligence operatives that gained notoriety after Harvey Weinstein, the disgraced Hollywood mogul, hired it to dig up dirt on his accusers. Psy-Group, an Israeli company specializing in social media manipulation, worked for Russian oligarchs and in 2016 pitched the Trump campaign on a plan to build an online army of bots and avatars to swing Republican delegate votes.Last year, a wealthy American businessman, Elliott Broidy, sued the government of Qatar and a New York firm run by a former C.I.A. officer, Global Risk Advisors, for what he said was a sophisticated breach of his company that led to thousands of his emails spilling into public. Mr. Broidy said that the operation was motivated by hard-nosed geopolitics: At the beginning of the Trump administration, he had pushed the White House to adopt anti-Qatar policies at the same time his firm was poised to receive hundreds of millions of dollars in contracts from the United Arab Emirates, the archrival to Qatar.A judge dismissed Mr. Broidy’s lawsuit, but suspicions have grown that Qatar had a hand in other operations, including the hacking and leaking of the emails of Yousef al-Otaiba, the influential Emirati ambassador in Washington.The rapid expansion of this global high-tech battleground, where armies of cybermercenaries clash, has prompted warnings of a dangerous and chaotic future.“Even the smallest country, on a very low budget, can have an offensive capability,” or initiate online attacks against adversaries, said Robert Johnston, founder of the cybersecurity firm Adlumin and a key investigator on Russia’s 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee. “Qatar and U.A.E. are going after each other, and that war is getting very, very bloody.“The barriers to entry in this space are getting lower and lower.”Before NSO helped the Saudi government track its adversaries outside the kingdom, and helped the Mexican government hunt drug kingpins, and earned hundreds of millions of dollars working for dozens of countries on six continents, the company consisted of two high school friends in northern Israel with one relatively mundane idea.Using technology developed by graduates of Intelligence Unit 8200 — Israel’s equivalent of the N.S.A.— Shalev Hulio and Omri Lavie started a company in 2008 that allowed cellphone firms to gain remote access to their customers’ devices to perform maintenance.Word spread to Western spy services, whose operatives spotted an opportunity. At the time, American and European officials were warning that Apple, Facebook, Google and other tech giants were developing technologies that allowed criminals and terrorists to communicate through encrypted channels indecipherable to intelligence and law enforcement agencies. They called the phenomenon “going dark.”Mr. Hulio and Mr. Lavie offered a way to circumvent this problem by hacking the end points of the communications — the phones themselves — after the data were decrypted.By 2011, NSO had developed its first prototype, a mobile surveillance tool the company called Pegasus. Like its namesake, the Greek mythological winged horse, NSO’s tool could do something seemingly impossible: collect vast amounts of previously inaccessible data from smartphones in the air without leaving a trace — including phone calls, texts, emails, contacts, location and any data transmitted over apps like Facebook, WhatsApp and Skype.“Once these companies invade your phone, they own it. You’re just carrying it around,” Avi Rosen of Kaymera Technologies, an Israeli cyberdefense company, said of NSO and its competitors.The company soon had its first client for Pegasus: the government of Mexico, which was engaged in a crackdown on drug cartels. By 2013, NSO had installed Pegasus at three Mexican agencies, according to emails obtained by The Times. The emails estimated that, altogether, the firm had sold the Mexican government $15 million worth of hardware and software. Mexico was paying the firm some $77 million to track a wide array of targets’ every move and swipe of their phone.NSO products were important to Mexico’s war against the cartels, according to four people familiar with how the Mexican government used Pegasus, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence matters. Mexican officials have credited Pegasus as instrumental in helping track and capture El Chapo, the famed drug kingpin who was convicted last month in New York and sentenced to life in a maximum-security prison.Soon enough, NSO was selling to governments throughout the world, with the company claiming clients on every continent except Antarctica. NSO products — particularly Pegasus — helped break up terrorist cells and aided investigations into organized crime and child abduction, European intelligence and law enforcement officials said in interviews.NSO’s first client, the Mexican government, was also using the hacking tools for darker purposes — as part of a broader government and industry surveillance effort. The government used NSO products to track at least two dozen journalists, government critics, international investigators looking into the unsolved disappearance of 43 students, even backers of a soda tax, according to Times investigations and research by Citizen Lab, part of the University of Toronto.Those targets were subjected to a stream of harassing text messages that contained malware. Some messages warned that their spouses were having affairs, others that a relative had passed away. In one case, when government officials were not able to infiltrate the phone of a journalist, they targeted her 16-year-old son’s.Though NSO says it sells its services for criminal and antiterrorism investigations, none of the Mexicans known to have been targeted were suspected in criminal or terrorism investigations.“NSO technology has helped stop vicious crimes and deadly terrorist attacks around the world,” the company said in a statement. “We do not tolerate misuse of our products and we regularly vet and review our contracts to ensure they are not being used for anything other than the prevention or investigation of terrorism and crime.”The company has established an ethics committee, which decides whether it can sell its spyware to countries based on their human rights records as reported by global organizations like the World Bank’s human capital index, and other indicators. NSO would not sell to Turkey, for example, because of its poor record on human rights, current and former employees said.But on the World Bank index, Turkey ranks higher than Mexico and Saudi Arabia, both NSO clients. A spokesman for Israel’s Ministry of Defense, which needs to authorize any contract that NSO wins from a foreign government, declined to answer questions about the company.A lawsuit alleged  last year that in the months before his death, Saudi Arabia used NSO products to spy on Mr. Khashoggi, the Washington Post columnist strangled and dismembered in October by Saudi operatives inside the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul. NSO denies the accusation. Several of Mr. Khashoggi’s closest contacts were targets of NSO hacking tools, Citizen Lab reported. Without access to Mr. Khashoggi’s devices, researchers have not confirmed whether he was a direct target of NSO surveillance.Even in cases of blatant abuse, NSO continued to renew contracts with its government clients. In 2013, for instance, NSO inked its first deal with the United Arab Emirates. Within a year, the Emirati government was caught installing NSO spyware on the mobile phone of Ahmed Mansoor, a prominent human rights activist.After receiving an onslaught of text messages containing links, Mr. Mansoor — a frequent target of Emirati surveillance — grew suspicious and passed the texts to security researchers, who determined the links were NSO lures that exploited vulnerabilities in Apple software to take over Mr. Mansoor’s phone. It was, researchers said, the most sophisticated spyware they had ever uncovered on a mobile device.The discovery forced Apple to release an emergency patch. But by then, Mr. Mansoor had already been fired from his job, had his passport confiscated, his car stolen, his email hacked, his location tracked, his bank account emptied of $140,000, and was beaten by strangers twice in the same week.“You start to believe your every move is watched. Your family starts to panic,” he said in an interview before he was arrested in 2017. “I have to live with that.”Even after the U.A.E. was caught spying on Mr. Mansoor, leaked invoices showed that NSO continued to sell the Emiratis millions of dollars’ worth of spyware and services. As for Mr. Mansoor, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison for damaging national unity and is being held in solitary confinement, where his health is deteriorating.A flurry of news reports followed about countries using NSO products to spy on their citizens, prompting the company to temporarily rebrand itself “Q,” after James Bond’s gadget guru.Despite the bad news coverage, NSO’s value continued to skyrocket.Francisco Partners, a private equity firm, purchased a 70 percent stake in NSO for $130 million in 2013. Last month, NSO’s co-founders raised enough money to buy back a majority stake in NSO at a valuation of just under $1 billion. The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed the deal — making its major investors, including the Oregon state employees’ pension fund and Alaska’s sovereign wealth fund, part owners of NSO, according to public records.The proliferation of companies trying to replicate NSO’s success and compete in an estimated $12 billion market for so-called lawful intercept spyware has set off a fierce competition to hire American, Israeli and Russian veterans of the world’s most sophisticated intelligence agencies — and for the companies to poach talent from one another.In late 2017, NSO executives grew concerned about a spate of resignations. Private detectives hired to investigate soon found themselves on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus, tailing a group of former NSO employees — all veterans of Israel’s Intelligence Unit 8200 — going back and forth to work at a research facility.The building was owned by a company affiliated with DarkMatter, an Emirati firm that had quietly hired the Israelis to develop technologies for the U.A.E. to conduct cyberoperations against perceived enemies at home and abroad.DarkMatter also has offices inside a gleaming tower on the highway connecting Abu Dhabi to Dubai, the same building that houses the U.A.E.’s Signals Intelligence Agency, the Emirates’ version of the N.S.A.This is not by accident. DarkMatter is effectively an arm of the state that has worked directly with Emirati intelligence operatives on numerous missions such as hacking government ministries in Turkey, Qatar and Iran and spying on dissidents inside the Emirates.DarkMatter has origins in another company, an American firm called CyberPoint that years ago won contracts from the U.A.E. to help protect the Emirates from computer attacks. CyberPoint obtained a license from the American government to work for the Emiratis, a necessary step intended to regulate the export of military and intelligence services. Many of the company’s employees had worked on highly classified projects for the N.S.A. and other American intelligence agencies.But the Emiratis had outsize ambitions and repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees to exceed the boundaries of the company’s American license. CyberPoint rebuffed requests by Emirati intelligence operatives to try to crack encryption codes and to hack websites housed on American servers — operations that would have run afoul of American law.So in 2015 the Emiratis founded DarkMatter — forming a company not bound by United States law — and lured at least a half-dozen American employees of CyberPoint to join. Marc Baier, a former official with the N.S.A. unit that carries out advanced offensive cyberoperations, became one of the firm’s top executives.DarkMatter employed several other former N.S.A. and C.I.A. officers, according to a roster of employees obtained by The Times, some making salaries of hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.“The assumption used to be that when you left the N.S.A., you’d never do that kind of offensive work again. Now, clearly there is a market for it,” said Mr. Johnston, the security expert. He worked in the military’s Cyber Command, which works closely with the N.S.A., while serving in the Marines.“The N.S.A. should consider it their responsibility to ensure that the hacking techniques taught to employees cannot be used against the United States,” he said.The company did not respond to a request to comment, nor did a spokesman for the Emirati government. Asked whether the ministry had given a license for the former Israeli intelligence operatives working for DarkMatter, a spokesman for the Israeli Ministry of Defense declined to comment. A lawyer for Mr. Baier also declined to comment.Current and former employees of the spy agency have a lifelong obligation to protect the United States’ secrets, said Greg Julian, a spokesman for the N.S.A. They are also required to report employment or representation with foreign governments for two years after they leave the agency, he said.Besides its breaches of foreign government ministries, DarkMatter also broke into Gmail, Yahoo and Hotmail accounts, according to former employees. DarkMatter operatives posed as family and friends of the people they targeted to lure them into opening emails that contained malware.Former employees said that DarkMatter targeted Mr. Mansoor, hacking his child’s baby monitor to eavesdrop on his family. In another operation, the company’s operatives pursued Rori Donaghy, a British activist critical of the Emirati government and its human rights record, who had also been a target of NSO spyware. DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab, the Canadian research organization, a former employee said.DarkMatter told the employees that spying on American citizens would be off limits, but it proved to be an empty pledge.In one operation, not previously reported, a DarkMatter subsidiary began an expansive effort to intercept cellular communications in Qatar, occasionally catching communications of Americans in the surveillance net in late 2015. One American working on the project said he raised concerns with his superiors, including a former C.I.A. officer in charge of the effort. The American, along with another, was pulled off the project and asked to sign a nondisclosure agreement.In repeated instances, DarkMatter collected information about Americans, a second former employee said. Most of those cases involved Americans who worked for foreign organizations — including human rights groups — that DarkMatter targeted because they had been critical of the Emirati government, the former employee said.DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information, applications or résumés belonging to Americans who applied to work at these organizations. One former employee said that the collection was accidental, and the records were expunged from the company’s databases.In 2017, a former N.S.A. hacker began providing F.B.I. agents with information about the company’s activities, according to the Reuters report. Foreign Policy first reported the F.B.I. investigation.The informant, Lori Stroud, said she had become concerned about the company’s surveillance of Americans. She later left the firm along with several other Americans because they could not be sure that DarkMatter was not deliberately targeting citizens. Soon, F.B.I. agents began stopping American employees at airports as they entered the United States and questioned them about DarkMatter’s operations, according to former company employees.The Justice Department’s case, run by prosecutors in Washington, focuses on internet fraud and the possibly illegal transfer of spying technology to a foreign country.But the prosecutors face headwinds, including diplomatic concerns about jeopardizing the United States’ relationship with the U.A.E. — an influential country that has developed close ties to the Trump administration — and worries about how pursuing the case could expose embarrassing details about the extent of the cooperation between DarkMatter and American intelligence agencies.And there is the reality that American laws governing this new age of digital warfare are murky, outdated, and ill-equipped to address rapid technological advances. The rules governing what American intelligence and military personnel can and cannot provide to foreign governments were meant to keep a leash on 20th-century warfare — selling missiles or planes overseas or training foreign forces on Army tactics.But they do not address hacking skills that can be honed in front of a laptop, or at the world’s most advanced intelligence agencies, and sold to the highest bidder.“The worst part of it is the weapons are easier to get,” said Brian Bartholomew, the principal security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, a digital security company.“You’ve got a lot of people entering the arena that are new and don’t play by the same rules,” he said. “It’s like putting a military-grade weapon in the hands of someone off the street.”An earlier version of this article misattributed the source of a valuation for the market of so-called lawful intercept spyware. The $12 billion market estimate cited by Moody’s originated from the company NSO, not Moody’s.Scott Shane contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley PowersOne day in 2015, Barbara Lavender’s husband returned from a U.F.O. conference and handed her a business card. It bore a red theater-curtain background, a vintage microphone and gold-and-white lettering that read: “Sean David Morton, Radio Host, Public Speaker, Author, Director, Screen Writer, Actor.” The polymathic Mr. Morton, Jeff Lavender told his wife, was U.F.O. royalty.Mr. Morton had spent years whisking E.T.-obsessed tourists to Area 51 for $99 a pop, then leveraged his following into stints on the wee-hours conspiracy show “Coast to Coast AM” — at one point, the nation’s No. 3 talk-radio program. He dabbled in other fringe arts, such as remote viewing and psychic predictions about earthquakes, elections and the stock market. But by the time Mr. Lavender saw him talk in Southern California, Mr. Morton had shifted to something truly fantastical: instant debt relief.He’d been peddling a workshop called “The Sovereign Factor: The Revolution Starts With You” — a nod to what is known as the sovereign citizens movement. A loose network of perhaps tens of thousands of far-right antigovernment extremists, sovereigns share certain conspiratorial beliefs and, sometimes, a desire to profit off a government whose legitimacy they deny.“Do you realize,” read Mr. Morton’s workshop description, “you are ALL considered ‘Incompetent,’ ‘Wards of the State,’ ‘Residents’ and the ‘Chattel Property’ of the US Federal government, until you declare your Emancipation? Learn all the secrets about how to get the government off your back and out of your life once and for all!!” One of these secrets was called the “bond process.” By submitting the right set of papers, Mr. Morton said, you could wipe out your mortgage, tax bills and student loans.Mr. Morton’s message had appeal beyond the tinfoil-hat crowd. In America after the Great Recession, plenty of people with upside-down mortgages and student debt were inclined to believe anyone offering help. Ms. Lavender, listening to her husband recap the workshop, was intrigued. Years earlier, she’d borrowed $48,000 to help her son attend college. She and her husband had worked in the mortgage industry in Southern California for decades, but educational debt was unfamiliar terrain. “I had never gone to college myself,” she told me recently. “I took out a loan I shouldn’t have.” Ms. Lavender lost her job and deferred the payments, and the interest kept piling up. By the time she held Mr. Morton’s business card in her hands, she owed $70,000.She realized a U.F.O. gathering was an unusual venue for debt-relief advice. Her husband’s annual get-togethers with the “X-Files” crowd were a hobby for him, and a good-natured punch line for their family. But the size and intractability of her loan balance weighed on her; also, she trusted her husband, and he thought Mr. Morton’s bond process was worth checking out. She told me, “I think he probably was enticed by it because it might have been a little tiny kick in the pants to the government.”As the Lavenders came to discover, sovereign fraudsters are the snake-oil salesmen of our time. Peddling a bouquet of grifts as varied as tax fraud and real estate scams, they prey on our suspicion of institutions, financial illiteracy, greed and despair. You don’t even have to buy into sovereign dogma to get swindled. You just need to be, as Ms. Lavender was, in debt. From 1990 to 2013, far-right extremists carried out more than 600 financial schemes that resulted in criminal charges, according to the researchers who run the U.S. Extremist Financial Crime Database, which is affiliated with the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism and is the only clearinghouse of its kind.That adds up to — conservatively — public losses of $1 billion. The majority of perpetrators were either sovereigns or their ideological cousins, tax defiers. Fraud is to them what cross-burning is to white supremacists: an expression of belief.Sovereigns, who sometimes call themselves “freemen” or “state citizens,” have no foundational document, but broadly they subscribe to an alternate version of American history. The tale can vary from sovereign to sovereign, but it goes roughly like this: At some point, a corporation secretly usurped the United States government, then went bankrupt and sought aid from international bankers. As collateral, the corporation offered the financiers … us. As sovereigns tell it, your birth certificate and Social Security card are not benign documents, but contracts that enslave you.There is, they believe, a pathway to freedom: Renounce these contracts or otherwise assert your sovereignty. (Mr. Morton said he once told the Social Security Administration, “I don’t want this number.”) Then no one — not the taxman, not the police — can tell you what to do. Not all sovereigns are con men, but their belief system lends itself to deceit. You might declare yourself a “diplomat” from a nonexistent country. (Mr. Morton represented the Republic of New Lemuria and the Dominion of Melchizedek.) Or start a fake Native American tribe. Or blow off a court case because the American flag in the courtroom has gold fringe. Some sovereigns have even lashed out violently at law enforcement officers, which is why they’re considered a domestic terrorism threat.Many sovereign myths hark back to the creation, in 1913, of the Federal Reserve. “It was this weird, complicated instrument for controlling the monetary system. People saw it as sinister,” the author J. M. Berger told me. In a recent paper, Mr. Berger traced the circulation of these ideas, in part, to a company named Omni Publications, which was something like the Infowars of the middle of the 20th century. One Omni title, “The Federal Reserve Conspiracy,” claimed that “enemy aliens” had infiltrated the banking system, and that their biographies could be found in “Who’s Who in American Jewry.” (Sovereign lore is often rooted in anti-Semitism.) By the 1970s, the intellectual father of the sovereign citizen movement, William Potter Gale, helped spread this type of falsehood to a larger audience.The founder of the antigovernment group Posse Comitatus, Mr. Gale aligned himself with an emerging movement of tax protesters who argued, for instance, that paying taxes was a form of involuntary servitude. In turn, he introduced them to his warped version of America, where patriots establish their own legal system and hang those who defy it. Mr. Gale’s specific gift was wrapping nonsense in enough legalese that it sounded real. “If you have this movement that offers you essentially a lot of magic words that you can say to get out of trouble, that’s going to really appeal to people who are desperate and angry,” Mr. Berger said. Mr. Gale’s outreach was a success. Over time, the line between thousands of tax protesters and Posse members blurred.Take “redemption” — a theory popularized, in part, by a Gale associate. Remember how the corporation-slash-fake-government used us as collateral? According to sovereign lore, this means the government set up secret accounts in our names. Some believe they contain the oddly specific amount of $630,000. (To be clear, this is “pure fantasy,” according to the Internal Revenue Service.)One way sovereigns try to make the imaginary money real is by abusing legitimate I.R.S. forms. Law-abiding taxpayers use Form 1099-OID, for example, to report “original issue discount” income. But some sovereigns write in fake OID income, and fake withholding, in order to claim illegitimate refunds. If you file such a return, you risk at the very least a large fine. Yet from 2012 to 2014, according to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, the I.R.S. received close to 7,000 sham OID filings.Chronically underfunded and understaffed, I.R.S. investigators refer only about two dozen sovereign-scam cases, on average, for prosecution each year. The agency sometimes misses returns that should raise suspicion. For example, in 2016, the I.R.S. discovered a sizable redemption scheme — but only after processing 207 bogus returns and disbursing more than $43 million. That’s another reason these strange theories persist, and have begun to leach out of the sovereign network and into the general population: Sometimes, improbably, they work.Mr. Morton was born in 1958, and his comfortable childhood in Northern California was a tutorial in how to make a sales pitch. His mother, Maureen Kennedy Salaman, was — as San Francisco magazine once described her — a “millionaire evangelical alternative-medicine fanatic” who promoted questionable cancer treatments.She was also a member of the John Birch Society, the far-right group known for its paranoid anticommunism, and she stockpiled beans, grains and ammunition in case of a Russian invasion. In 1984, she was chosen as the vice-presidential nominee for the Populist Party, a favorite of white supremacists. (Its presidential candidate the following cycle was the former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke.) In her acceptance speech, she warned the crowd: “We’re up against the most evil and powerful conspiracy the world has ever known.”When Mr. Morton reached adulthood, he sold unorthodox beliefs from behind a suburban-dad veneer: a flop of dark hair, a round, clean-shaven face, and a button-down-and-khakis wardrobe. He was charismatic but also childlike, friends said, his ego easily bruised. He branded himself an investigative reporter within the U.F.O. world, and in the 1990s, when Mr. Morton appeared on “The Montel Williams Show,” he made outrageous claims — more than 100 alien species had visited Earth! — with the certainty of a Nobel laureate. “I got close enough to one of these things that was floating around in the desert to actually get my face burned by it,” he said.Even other U.F.O. enthusiasts considered him a kook, but Mr. Morton’s fans didn’t care. The truth was out there — and Sean David Morton had it. Branding himself a prophet, he plumbed the new-age convention circuit alongside specialists in animal telepathy, chakras, hauntings, angelic gemstone messages and the afterlife. Near the end of the millennium, at a convention in Las Vegas, a blue-eyed, reddish-haired woman approached him. Back in Utah, Melissa Thomson had grown up in a Mormon home and married at 22; she worked in banking and, in her spare time, doted on her pedigreed cats, even serving as treasurer of the local Cat Fanciers group. The “Coast to Coast” program was her escape, and she spent hours fan-girling over Mr. Morton, a frequent guest.At the Las Vegas convention, Ms. Thomson apparently had one goal: to meet her idol. “It was love at first sight,” Mr. Morton said. She soon left her husband and joined Mr. Morton in Southern California. Her oldest brother, Robert, told me, “The more we found out, the more we warned Melissa that he is just not a decent person at all. But he promised her movie roles; they’ll inherit Mommy’s home in Atherton, her condo in Tahoe. All she could see was dollars.” When they got married, her family refused to attend.(Through her lawyer, Ms. Morton declined to comment. Mr. Morton did not respond to multiple requests for comment, although he said on YouTube last fall that The New York Times was conducting a “massive smear campaign” against him. Unless otherwise noted, all of his quotes in this article are from court records.)The Mortons lived in Hermosa Beach, a surf spot about 20 miles from downtown Los Angeles. Next to its mini-palaces, their oatmeal-colored apartment building resembled servants’ quarters, but it was a short stroll to the Pacific Ocean. Mr. Morton welcomed his new wife’s bushy-tailed Norwegian forest cats — when a new litter arrived, more than a dozen scampered around the apartment — and in turn she oversaw the administrative side of being Sean David Morton. He shilled conspiracy fiction (“The Dark Prophet — Veil of the Anti-Christ”); CDs (“Everything You Wanted to Know About the Future Vol. 2”); a $65 newsletter with thousands of subscribers (“TOMORROW’S HEADLINES TODAY!”).Either this wasn’t particularly lucrative, or it wasn’t lucrative enough to replicate Mr. Morton’s childhood wealth. From the outside, it was hard to tell. “He was always asking me to try and help him to do something so that he could raise some money,” said Susan Shumsky, a fellow fixture on the new-age circuit. “Like, ‘Let’s do a trip to Peru so I can have some money. Let’s do a tele-seminar so that I can make some money.’” Ms. Morton’s pedigreed kittens, which sold for hundreds of dollars each, apparently kept them solvent. At various points, she also dog-walked and worked at Disneyland. Their friend Will Chappell said, “It was him leading the charge, him leading the family. She did what was necessary to accomplish his goals.”Early in their relationship, a website called UFO Watchdog — “Exposing the Parasites, Delusional Personalities, Morons and Frauds Currently Clouding the UFO Issue” — dismantled much of Mr. Morton’s official biography. Mr. Morton sued; the case was dismissed. But in an email included in the case file, Ms. Morton waved off the findings: “I would only be concerned if Sean DIDN’T have critics. Some of the greatest people in history have had people attacking them at every step. It just means that Sean is doing something right and trying to make a difference in the world.”By 2006, the couple was expecting a windfall. Ms. Salaman was in poor health; when she died, Mr. Morton assumed he’d inherit some of his mother’s fortune. But their relationship, already frosty, iced over in her final weeks. Ms. Salaman didn’t even want her son and his wife to visit. She cut them both out of her will, even as she kept a $100,000 trust for her Great Dane, Duke.“They just both went berserk,” Ms. Morton’s brother recalled. “It’s just been scam after scam after scam.”While the sovereign citizen movement is inherently not organized, some members of the firmament become known as gurus, and are vectors for spreading the ideology. Mr. Morton often lectured at the Living Temple, a new age shop just south of Hermosa Beach. The owner favored a black T-shirt with five flying saucers and the admonition “KEEP LOOKING UP,” and yoga music ommed through a clutter of apothecary bottles, bags of herbal something, miracle-cleanse guidebooks and crop-circle DVDs.One day, most likely in 2008, a man named Brandon Adams started showing up. Like Mr. Morton, he was a budding sovereign amplifier — but he was so much younger that his untucked button-downs looked like an attempt at playing dress-up. His family ran a local tax-prep business. “His whole thing was the banks,” Mr. Morton said later. “What he considered the great criminal conspiracy between the Internal Revenue Service and the banking cartels.” Mr. Morton quickly got him a speaking slot.Some of Mr. Adams’s talks were recorded. Pacing in front of a few dozen people, scribbling phrases and stick figures on a whiteboard, he wove a dark tale. The secret bankruptcy. The people-as-collateral. Then, a twist: The banks were skimming money from — or “fractionalizing” — every transaction we make. He told the group they could reclaim the funds via Form 1099-OID.From a folding chair, Mr. Morton — looking grayer and rounder than during his “Montel Williams” days — asked Mr. Adams if anyone had really gotten a big refund that way. Yes, Mr. Adams said. “The funny thing is, watch how quiet people start to get when they’re not so sure about the process and they do start getting the returns.” Laughter. “They’ve got that mentality: ‘I’m not going to say I just got two hundred and fifty grand.’”The audience lapped it up. This was America during the financial crisis: The banks had been bailed out, but not homeowners, and the era of Tea Party rallies and Occupy Wall Street encampments was imminent. It wasn’t too much of a leap to suspect that Washington was in cahoots with the likes of J.P. Morgan. Mr. Adams’s Living Temple talks drew large enough crowds that he moved to a bigger venue and sold private coaching for $200 an hour. “It became a movement, really,” Mr. Morton said. (Mr. Adams did not respond to multiple requests for comment.)In the spring of 2009, under Mr. Adams’s tutelage, the Mortons tried the OID scheme themselves. Mr. Morton filed four years of returns — from 2005 to 2008 — and claimed nearly $4 million in refunds. His wife filed a 2007 return and claimed about $12,000. “I never, ever, ever in any of this thought that I was breaking a law,” Mr. Morton later said. “I thought that this was the law.” His faith was bolstered when, that April, he got a refund for one of his returns: a direct deposit to their Washington Mutual account of $480,322.55.In 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission went after the Mortons for a different scheme — one with no connection to sovereign ideology. Mr. Morton had used his unconventional celebrity a few years earlier to begin an investment club, where he would channel his psychic powers into predicting foreign currency markets. It’s a risky type of trading, but Mr. Morton bragged that his forecasts were so accurate that even Henry Paulson, then the Treasury secretary, relied on them.After hearing Mr. Morton promote the fund on “Coast to Coast,” a man from Washington State invested $217,000. An elderly New York woman parted with $20,000. “He’s promising the stars,” recalled Tim Saunders, an Alaska electrician who poured in his life savings of $135,000. “Yeah, my greed came out, and I felt I needed more, and quickly.” In all, more than 100 people invested $6 million. Mr. Morton sank only half of it into foreign-currency trading — nearly all of which he lost. At least $240,000 was funneled to a nonprofit the Mortons set up, and authorities don’t know where the rest is. In 2013, the S.E.C. won an $11.5 million judgment against him. (Ms. Morton was a relief defendant, meaning she was accused only of profiting from the scheme.)The Mortons filed for bankruptcy, but repeatedly misled the government — for instance, when they claimed not to have bank accounts. A court eventually denied their discharge, meaning they couldn’t get rid of their debt. They were also tossed out of their beach-adjacent apartment. “Bottom line,” Ms. Morton told the bankruptcy trustee one day, “I just want to be able to get a decent job, have a nice place to live, pay my taxes, and just have my life back.”It was around this time that the Mortons turned to hawking the debt-erasing sovereign scheme known as the “bond process.” Over two years, they helped people around the country send nearly two dozen fake bonds to the I.R.S., Quicken Loans, PennyMac, Bank of America, Chase Bank and the treasurer’s office in Contra Costa County, California. Early in 2015, Barbara Lavender, the woman whose husband met Mr. Morton at a U.F.O. conference, gave him a call.Ms. Lavender is 61 and a front-desk clerk at an adult school. When I met her last year in Hemet, Calif., nearly 90 parched miles east of Los Angeles, her ranch-style home was trimmed in red Christmas lights. We chatted at her kitchen table, with her 14-year-old dog, Remy, curled at our feet. She explained that when she spoke to Mr. Morton over the phone, he avoided talking about sovereign ideology. Instead, he said she could purchase a portion of a bond that he held — and almost magically make her educational loan disappear.To wipe out her $70,000 balance, he suggested Ms. Lavender should send him $2,500, or less than 4 percent of what she owed. She and her husband believed Mr. Morton had discovered the sort of workaround rich people find. “You know,” she testified later. “You hear it all the time: ‘wealthy with tax loopholes,’ and that kind of thing.”The bond looked authentically bureaucratic, with a formal scalloped border. It was really certificate paper from Office Depot. The accompanying paperwork said that the student loan company was entitled to be paid back from a fund that, in reality, the United States taps to help stabilize foreign currencies. Mr. Morton said he warned Ms. Lavender: “Look, I don’t know if this is going to work. I’m not a lawyer.” He added, “It’s all going to depend on whether or not they accept it.”A month after the Mortons mailed the bond package, Ms. Lavender checked her educational loan balance, saw it hadn’t budged and wrote Ms. Morton an email. She didn’t get a response. Ms. Lavender sent follow-up after follow-up. “This is beginning to feel increasingly more like a scam,” she wrote that October, “where we were bilked out of hard-earned money we did not have to spare.”Ms. Morton finally replied and said she’d been recovering from knee surgery. Ms. Lavender sent an almost apologetic response. Her attention was elsewhere — her husband had died suddenly from a brain mass. “Once you hear from Sean, can you let me know what he thinks we should do next?” she wrote. “With my husband gone, this debt is now an even greater burden for me as he was the main breadwinner.”Nothing came of the exchange. That winter, two men in jackets showed up at Ms. Lavender’s home and questioned her about the Mortons, the bond process, the outcome. Afterward, Ms. Lavender took one of their business cards to her nephew, who works for the local sheriff’s office. Yes, he reassured her. They really are from the I.R.S.On Jan. 31, 2016, a nearly 200-foot-tall, white-and-blue cruise ship called the Ruby Princess docked at the Port of Los Angeles. About 100 guests on board had paid $3,000 each for what was marketed as the Conspira-Sea Cruise — a weeklong jaunt through Mexican waters and American paranoia, from “Vaccinations: Do You Really Know What’s Coming Through That Needle?” to “Conspiracy to Steal Your Body and Soul.” As the Mortons prepared to disembark, they were arrested by federal agents.After years of digging by I.R.S. investigators, the Mortons faced a suite of charges related to their tax filings and fake bonds. Once off the Ruby Princess, where Mr. Morton had led a workshop called “From Fascism to Freedom,” they were separated, patted down and asked what medications they took. Mr. Morton said to ask Melissa about his. An agent did. “Cyanide,” she said, seething. On the way to jail, she added, “Do me a favor and tell Sean this: ‘Thank you and I’ll see you in the next life.’”Their trial began just before Tax Day, 2017. The prosecution told a simple story of greed. “I submit the I.R.S. was a slot machine,” one prosecutor, Valerie Makarewicz, said. “Keep hitting spin. Keep playing until you hit that jackpot.” The same day the Mortons got their $480,322.55 refund, she said, they went to the bank and drained nearly all of their account. Once the I.R.S. realized its mistake and tried to recoup the money, the Mortons filed two more rounds of bogus returns and a set of fake bonds.Ms. Morton’s lawyer presented a good-faith defense. She was under the thrall of sovereign gurus, he said, “people who kind of strutted back and forth on the stage with an answer for everything.” He showed the jury 37 pages of perfect-cursive notes Ms. Morton took at a Brandon Adams lecture. “In this courtroom, it’s obviously nonsense. But at that time, people believed it, and Melissa Morton believed it.”Mr. Morton represented himself. “I’m not a rapist, a thug, a war criminal,” he said during his opening statement. “I didn’t run a Nazi concentration camp and murder millions of children.”Serving as his own lawyer also meant he cross-examined witnesses. “Are you familiar with the bankruptcy of the United States in 1933?” he asked the government’s fraud expert. It was a reference to the sovereign conspiracy theory.“No,” the witness said. “I’m not.”During his closing argument, on the trial’s fourth day, Mr. Morton told the jury about the Norwegian forest cats. Earlier in the week, he said, he and his wife tried to save a premature kitten. They stayed up late, swaddled her in cloth, fed her milk with an eye dropper. The kitten died anyway. Ask yourselves, he implored the jurors, “Do we send these nice people who care for kittens and raise cats to jail forever?” The panel deliberated for two hours. When they returned, Ms. Morton greeted them with a hopeful smile. The verdict: guilty on all counts. She fainted.Around this time, other prominent sovereigns were facing a reckoning. A court had permanently barred Mr. Adams from preparing tax returns or promoting the OID scheme; he ended up in prison for peddling fake money orders. Another guru on the Conspira-Sea Cruise named Winston Shrout (workshop: “Conspiracy of the Court System”) was awaiting trial in Oregon.Mr. Morton’s sentencing was set for that June. But when the 11 a.m. hearing started, he didn’t show.Agents spotted him that afternoon outside a Domino’s in Hermosa Beach, a gray hood and sunglasses shrouding much of his face. He hopped in his white Ford Escape and headed south. The next morning, he tweeted a plea for donations: “Melissa (and the cats) need help relocating.”Two months passed. Mr. Morton resurfaced via video on a friend’s online talk show, “Project Camelot” (“Getting the Truth Out One Whistleblower at a Time”). His hair was mussed, as if he’d been startled awake, and he wore a headset, a black V-neck and dark-rimmed glasses that he took on and off.His version of “hello” was ripping his judge and prosecutors as “the biggest gang of criminals you’re ever going to see.” Soon, he turned his attention to the impending solar eclipse. “This is one of the biggest turning points in American history!” he said. The video clocked more than 40,000 views. It was vintage Sean David Morton, which is to say it was impossible to tell what, if anything, he believed.I once asked Will Chappell, who has known the Mortons for more than a decade, whether they were actual sovereign dogmatists. He said, “She definitely believed in the story that Sean was telling. I believe that Sean believed in the story that he was telling. A little bit, I believed in it.” And now, after their convictions? “Melissa, of course, knowing what she knew now, she would have been gone a long time ago. I think Sean would have still done what he did. He still thinks he just missed a step.”The solar eclipse took place in August, the week after Mr. Morton’s on-the-lam interview. Though Ms. Morton promised the court she would have no contact with her fugitive husband, the couple rendezvoused at a hotel just outside Palm Springs. That morning, after the moon briefly blotted out the sun, Mr. Morton was lounging poolside in swim trunks, purple mountains arrayed above him, eclipse glasses at his side. An I.R.S. agent walked up. It was over.At their sentencing, Ms. Morton distanced herself from him. “I am a living embodiment of ‘love is blind,’” she wrote to the judge. “If I ever questioned the teachings and processes by others, I was told, who was I to question others who were far smarter than I? There were thousands of attendees to the workshops and seminars. It was so convincing, well-organized and very believable. How could thousands of people be wrong?” She was sentenced to two years in prison and has filed an appeal. Behind bars, she passed time taking classes — résumé-writing, watercolor-painting, embroidery — and watching the Food Network; she was recently transferred to a halfway house. Emails posted on the Project Camelot site suggest she and her husband are still in touch.Mr. Morton was sentenced to six years in prison. He’s representing himself on appeal, and in court papers he argued that he’d been “improperly profiled” as a “terrorist sovereign citizen.” On Project Camelot, he’s unrepentant — even sharing a pardon request he said he sent to President Trump.“It’s because of my work in RADIO and TV INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM that DEEP STATE forces within the D.O.J. put my wife and I in prison for YEARS!” he wrote. Of course, he had a suggestion for how to correct this injustice: donate to his PayPal account.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Raphael MinderMADRID — The simmering conflict over Catalan independence roared back to the center of Spanish attention on Tuesday, as 12 people went on trial for their roles in the botched secession attempt of 2017, and Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez scrambled to keep the issue from toppling his government.The eagerly anticipated trial before the Spanish Supreme Court in Madrid has drawn enormous attention and is being broadcast live on national television, but it could soon be overshadowed by the political crisis unfolding just blocks away, in Parliament.On Wednesday, Mr. Sánchez’s minority Socialist government faces a crucial parliamentary vote on his national budget. If a majority of lawmakers reject it, including Catalan lawmakers who have so far backed the prime minister, he will almost certainly be forced to call elections.With Spain’s government hanging in the balance, the Supreme Court is under intense pressure to demonstrate that it can remain impartial and above politics in a case that has ignited passions and recriminations. The Catalan separatist leaders were indicted on charges that include rebellion, after holding an independence referendum and then declaring independence in October 2017 — moves the Spanish courts ruled unconstitutional.The secessionist conflict has split Catalan society, but it has also helped reshape Spain’s politics. Mr. Sánchez came into office unexpectedly in June, after winning a vote of no-confidence against the previous conservative government, with the backing of Basque and Catalan nationalist lawmakers.To stay in office, he needs to maintain the support of the separatist parties that have governed in Catalonia, the wealthy northeastern region of Spain, since 2015. But Quim Torra, the leader of the regional government, has insisted that his party would not back the national budget unless Mr. Sánchez agreed to consider another independence referendum, which the prime minister has refused to do.On Tuesday, María Jesús Montero, Spain’s budget minister, told lawmakers that the trial and conflict over Catalonia had “polarized” the debate over the budget, but insisted that “this government will not cede to any blackmail” from separatist lawmakers.“We have always been betting on political dialogue within our constitutional framework, but we have to make clear the framework — nothing outside our constitutional order,” she said.Mr. Sánchez’s attempt to renew political dialogue with the separatists was recently labeled as treason by the leader of Spain’s conservative party, Pablo Casado.Almost every aspect of the criminal case has been the subject of intense political feuding, from the location of the trial — in Madrid rather than Barcelona — to the decision by Spain’s judiciary to deny bail for most of the defendants and to keep them in prison since late 2017.The defendants’ supporters see the conditions as reinforcing the independence movement’s complaints about an oppressive central government. Opponents of secessionism, on the other hand, hope that prison sentences for Catalan leaders will deter illegal attempts to break up Spain.Within the main chamber of the frescoed Supreme Court building, which was built in the 18th century, a panel of seven justices and the 12 defendants listened to opening arguments on Tuesday. Oriol Junqueras, the former deputy leader of Catalonia, occupied the frontbench.Andreu Van den Eynde, a lawyer for Mr. Junqueras who opened the proceedings, cast the case as a matter of free expression, the right to protest and the right to vote.“We will not make a political defense, but we will defend human values and rights,” Mr. Van den Eynde said. The defendants, he argued, have already faced legal proceeding in which “every constitutional right has been restricted.”A handful of indicted politicians are missing from the trial, however, including Carles Puigdemont, the former leader of Catalonia, who fled to Brussels and has successfully resisted Spain’s attempts to extradite him.Outside the Supreme Court building, television crews under heavy police surveillance jostled for space; some 600 journalists have been accredited to cover the trial.In the surrounding streets, a few protesters, some of whom carried Spanish flags, denounced Mr. Sánchez for his handling of the Catalan conflict and called for his ouster — a small echo of the anti-government demonstration that drew tens of thousands of people on Sunday.“I rely on the judges to do what the politicians haven’t done and put an end to any attempt to destroy Spain,” said Santiago Pulido, a house painter, who held a sign with a drawing of two defendants with devil’s horns.Some of the defendants face up to 25 years in prison if found guilty, but the sentences should be “much heavier,” Mr. Pulido said. “They are responsible for dividing the Spanish people and making people fight each other within their own country — I cannot think of a more serious crime.”The trial is expected to last at least three months. But budgetary defeat on Wednesday could force Mr. Sánchez to call elections before the summer, which means they could take place before verdicts are made public.Opposition politicians want Mr. Sánchez to hold a general election on May 26, when Spain is already to hold municipal and regional elections, as well as votes for the European Parliament.Speaking outside the courtroom, Mr. Van den Eynde, the defense lawyer, said a trial that he views as already politicized could be influenced by a snap election.“We’re trying to stay focused on this trial,” he said, “but we know that when politics change, everything can change.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Paul Mozur and Austin RamzyHONG KONG — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei sued the United States government on Wednesday, arguing that it had been unfairly and incorrectly banned as a security threat.The lawsuit will force the government to make its case against the company more public, but it could also leave Huawei vulnerable to deeper scrutiny of its business practices and relationship with the Chinese government.The United States has argued that Huawei poses a risk because its equipment could be used by the Chinese authorities to spy on communications and disrupt telecommunications networks. That position has led major wireless carriers in the United States to avoid Huawei’s equipment.Huawei denies the allegations and says the lawsuit is meant to prove it does not engage in such practices. The company’s plans to file the lawsuit were first reported on Monday by The New York Times.“The U.S. Congress has repeatedly failed to produce any evidence to support its restrictions on Huawei products,” Guo Ping, Huawei’s rotating chairman, said in a statement announcing the filing of the lawsuit. “We are compelled to take this legal action as a proper and last resort.”The lawsuit, which was filed in a United States District Court in Plano, Tex., where Huawei has its American headquarters, argues that part of the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act is unconstitutional because it singles out Huawei. The act bans government agencies from contracting with Huawei or companies that use the company’s equipment.Huawei, China’s biggest maker of telecommunications equipment, has been under pressure for months by the United States authorities. Now, it’s striking back. The suit is part of a markedly aggressive legal and public relations offensive that Huawei has recently mounted to push back against spying accusations.During a news briefing broadcast on an official Huawei feed on Twitter, Mr. Guo pulled no punches.“The U.S. government has long branded Huawei as a threat, it has hacked our service and stolen our emails and source code,” he said, referring to National Security Agency documents provided by the former contractor Edward J. Snowden that showed the agency had pried its way into Huawei’s systems.“Still, the U.S. government is sparing no effort to smear the company and mislead the public about Huawei,” he added. The briefing, streamed on Twitter — an American internet platform blocked in China — reached more than two million people.In December, Meng Wanzhou, the daughter of Huawei’s founder and the chief financial officer of the company, was detained in Canada at the behest of the United States, which is seeking to extradite her.Her father, Ren Zhengfei, the company’s founder, has since rejected the claims against his daughter and said that he would wait to see if President Trump would intervene in the case. Ms. Meng has been in court this week in Vancouver, British Columbia, as part of an extradition hearing.In the meantime, Huawei has battled against many of its customers and nations that have said they would pull back from buying its products. China has also retaliated against Canada by detaining several Canadian citizens. This week, Canadian officials also complained that China had begun to suspend the import of canola from the country.Lu Kang, the spokesman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said on Thursday that the Chinese decision was based on the discovery of pests in Canadian canola.China has a long history of interrupting trade with other countries in the middle of diplomatic spats. In September 2010, China halted the export of rare earth metals to Japan for two months during a dispute over the sovereignty of a cluster of tiny islands between Japan and Taiwan. Weeks later, China suspended trade talks with Norway and then halted the import of Norwegian salmon after the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to a Chinese dissident by a Norwegian committee.Huawei’s lawsuit argues that by singling out the company, Congress has violated constitutional principles on the separation of powers and also the bill of attainder clause, which prohibits legislation that singles out a person or entity for punishment without trial.“The actual and intended effect of these prohibitions is to bar Huawei from significant segments of the U.S. market for telecommunications equipment and services, thereby inflicting immediate and ongoing economic, competitive, and reputational harms on Huawei,” the company’s lawyers wrote in the suit.They added that the prohibitions have been carried out without “a fair hearing or the opportunity to rebut the allegations against it, and without opportunity for escape.”The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab filed, and ultimately lost, a similar legal challenge two years ago. After the Department of Homeland Security directed federal agencies to ban Kaspersky products from their systems, Congress codified the directive into a law.Kaspersky filed two lawsuits arguing it had been singled out for punishment without a trial. A judge ultimately dismissed the lawsuits, pointing out they came from a legitimate desire to protect American networks.The Justice Department filed criminal charges against Huawei in January, but those cases focus on the company’s connections to evading American sanctions on Iran and its theft of intellectual property. Neither relates to the core question faced by governments around the world about whether using Huawei’s equipment in new 5G networks causes security concerns.The new lawsuit seeks to focus on that question, and to push the United States government to make its case. While Huawei is unlikely to reverse American opposition to the company, it may hope to win over government officials in other countries, including some in Europe, who will probably be following the American lawsuit closely.Debate about the security of Huawei’s systems has come at a critical moment, with countries around the world preparing to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on expanding cellular networks to next generation 5G technology.The new networks will have faster speeds, but also be used to connect a bewildering number of new sensors and data-collection systems alongside smartphones. That would make vulnerabilities in the networks potentially more serious than with the cellular networks of the past.Mr. Lu, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, expressed support for Huawei’s legal action.“We believe that it is perfectly justified and fully understandable for companies to safeguard their legitimate rights and interests through legal means,” he said.Many Chinese expressed support on social media for Huawei’s legal stand against the United States. Some others noted with sarcasm the difficulties of similar legal recourse for companies or individuals within China’s system.“So you can sue a government?” wrote one user on Weibo, the Chinese social media service. “Interesting. All of a sudden I’m thinking, actually I don’t dare think about it.”.Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Shanghai. Zoe Mou contributed research from Beijing, and Qiqing Lin from Shanghai.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Associated PressMOGADISHU, Somalia — Gunmen from an Islamist militant group stormed a government building in Somalia’s capital, Mogadishu, after a suicide car bombing on Saturday, killing at least five people, including the country’s deputy labor minister, the police said.Somali security forces fought an hourslong gun battle with at least five assailants to retake control of the building, which houses the ministries of labor and works, a police officer, Capt. Mohamed Hussein, said.The Reuters news agency, citing police sources, put the death toll at the end of the battle at 15.Saqar Ibrahim Abdalla, Somalia’s deputy minister of labor and social affairs, was killed in his ground-floor office shortly after the gunmen stormed the building, Captain Hussein said.Saturday is a working day in Somalia, and dozens of people were believed to be in the building at the time of the attack.The Shabab claimed responsibility for the attack at the building, which is not far from the headquarters of the Somali intelligence agency. As the attack unfolded, gunfire could be heard from in the building. White smoke billowed from the scene, witnesses said.A similar attack targeting a busy area in Mogadishu in February killed at least 24 people. That attack also began with a pair of car bombs exploding in a popular area of Mogadishu where Somalis were relaxing at restaurants.The Shabab, who have links to Al Qaeda, frequently carry out suicide bombings targeting public places, hotels and government offices. They are Africa’s most active Islamist militant group, and have been fighting for years to take power and create an Islamic state in Somalia.The group continues to mount lethal attacks despite being pushed out of Mogadishu, in part by African Union peacekeepers. It mostly operates from rural areas in the country’s south.The group has carried out many deadly attacks in neighboring Kenya in retaliation over Kenya’s deployment in 2011 of peacekeepers in Somalia.The United States military has carried out a number of deadly airstrikes in recent months against the Shabab.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byFrance DispatchBy Adam NossiterBAYONNE, France — The government in Paris disapproves. But the local mayor doesn’t care. He says he will continue sheltering the Africans crossing the Spanish border into France.For Jean-René Etchegaray, mayor of Bayonne, a quiet and refined city in the French Basque Country, 22 miles from the border, it is a matter of necessity and humanitarian obligation.Since Italy all but closed its borders to migrants and  France has tried to close its border to migrants coming from Italy, Spain has become the prime gateway into Europe for migrants from Africa, with more than 57,000 arriving last year.Many are now crossing into France and transiting through Bayonne, a place where “everything is reasonable,” Stendhal wrote in the mid-19th century.But what Mr. Etchegaray sees as his reasonable stance has put him at war with the government of President Emmanuel Macron, even as the mayor has become a case study in the front-line management of Europe’s migration crisis and its contradictions.The mayor doesn’t necessarily want these young men, predominantly from French-speaking West African countries like Guinea, Mali and Ivory Coast, hanging around forever. He also doesn’t want them camping out on his streets of tall, old, half-timbered Basque houses nestled along slow-moving rivers.But he wants the migrants to exist, while in his city, in a “condition of dignity,” as he put it. “I don’t think I can do less,” he said.So Mr. Etchegaray took the young men off the streets, requisitioned an old military barracks near the train station, put camp beds in it, brought in hot meals and keeps the place heated.The young men greet him warmly when he shows up, several times a day.“Good man,” said one of his temporary guests, Abdul Sylla, a 29-year-old from Guinea who harbors vague hopes of studying. “Close to the people.”Official France keeps wagging its finger at the city’s mayor.It is “absolutely out of the question” that the state “would give the slightest aid” to the mayor’s shelter, Gilbert Payet, who until recently was Mr. Macron’s regional representative for the Interior Ministry, testily told local reporters last month.The mayor was unfazed.“I saw that the frontiers were closing, and as far as I’m concerned, there are some fundamental rights that can’t be trampled on,” Mr. Etchegaray said, evoking Bayonne’s heritage as a refuge for Jews fleeing the Spanish Inquisition and as the birthplace of the great Jewish jurist René Cassin, who helped draft the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.The French state’s attitude toward the mayor illustrates Mr. Macron’s own ambiguities on the subject of migration.germany200 milesParisswitz.FranceAtlanticOceanitalyMediterranean Seaspain30 milesBayonneBay of BiscayfranceIrunbasque countryspainBy The New York TimesOn the one hand, he has exalted France’s humanitarian traditions and asked the police to treat migrants with fairness.On the other, his government has refused admission to migrant ships, put migrant rights advocates on trial and boasted about how many foreigners have been expelled or turned back at frontiers.The Italians have angrily accused the French of hypocrisy, and Mr. Etchegaray has used the same word.“The prefect said, ‘No, no, no, no, no, no!’ ” recalled Maïté Etcheverry, a young volunteer who runs the shelter in Bayonne.But the mayor merely carried on — distributing blankets; inquiring about the migrants’ well-being; and paying for the center out of the budget of the local agglomeration of towns which he runs.“They said, ‘You’re just going to create a pull factor for even more migrants,’ ” Mr. Etchegaray said with a laugh during an interview in his office here this past week.“They said, ‘You’re going to create another Calais,’” he said, referring to squalid encampments in northern France, since demolished, where thousands of migrants waited in mud, cold and misery, hoping to get to England.So far, it hasn’t turned out that way.“I don’t feel I’m doing anything contrary to the law,” Mr. Etchegaray said mildly.“Look, I’m not some kind of radical crazy person,” he continued, noting that most migrants stay a few days then move on.He even moved a bus stop for low-cost travel services in front of the shelter, to make it easier for migrants to leave. And he went to war with the bus company because its drivers were demanding, illegally, that the Africans produce identity papers.“We are the only squatters in France supported by City Hall,” Ms. Etcheverry said, grinning.“That mayor, he’s in deep against the prefect, and visibly against the interior minister,” said Ms. Etcheverry, a law student. “It’s really kind of extraordinary.”A self-described “radical pro-Basque independence leftist,” she has found herself in political opposition to the 66-year-old center-right mayor before. Not this time.The migrants come and go at the center all day, most often arriving in inconspicuous cars with traffickers. The local police say the seedy district around the train station in the nearby Spanish border city of Irún has become a hive of trafficking.One recent day, a group of six young African men with backpacks hurried in single file across a plaza in Irún and down a flight of stairs.They were bundled into a waiting car that quickly drove off. Watching from the plaza above were several spotters talking furtively into their phones. All of it happened right under the noses of a group of Spanish police officers 20 yards away who did not stir.French and Spanish officers wait on opposite sides of a bridge crossing the river that separates Spain and France in this corner. The border is open, unless you are a migrant — in which case you might get stopped, checked and sent back.If the migrants make it to the shelter in Bayonne, however, they have a temporary refuge.The local police do not enter the courtyard that was converted into the shelter, where a long, low hall is staffed with volunteers and stocked with donations of food and clothing. The young men staying there play scrabble or lie quietly on camp beds, grateful that the worst seems behind them.“I never want to see the sea again,” said Ibrahima Doumbia, a young Guinean who crossed the Mediterranean by boat. “I had the fright of my life.”With the arrival of cold weather in the fall, he knew the growing migrant population in Bayonne could no longer stay in one of the city’s main squares, where people had been camping out.“It was cold and raining,’’ Mr. Etchegaray said. ‘‘We couldn’t leave them there anymore. They were cold, sick and hungry.”The mayor formed plans for the initiative quickly. “He came directly to the square,” Ms. Etcheverry recalled, adding that she remembered him saying, “I’ll be back in a half-hour.”When he returned, he led volunteers and migrants to an underground parking lot for the municipal police — a temporary solution until something better could be found.“He accompanied them, and showed them where the toilets were,’’ Ms. Etcheverry recounted. “He saw that they were quiet, and that we were just young people helping other young people. But we never imagined that it would end like this, in a center financed by the municipality.”It is a mayor’s duty, Mr. Etchegaray said.“The state just doesn’t want to know,” he added. “But me, I’ve got to know. And this was an emergency.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Jamie CondliffeHi. I’m Jamie Condliffe. Greetings from London. Here’s a look at the week’s tech news.There is little as fashionable in 2019 as the desire to curb Big Tech’s power. But knowing how far regulators should go in putting limits on Silicon Valley’s largest companies isn’t straightforward.At one extreme, there are calls to break up Big Tech.  Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines during the week when she called for just that. Ms. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, argued that companies shouldn’t offer their own products on platforms they controlled (like Apple’s selling apps on its App Store — something Spotify called out to European regulators on Wednesday). She also said she would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions, such as Facebook’s takeovers of Instagram and WhatsApp.Her pitch isn’t perfect, as The New York Times’s Kevin Roose pointed out — it’s too generic, misses easy wins and overlooks some big issues. But it is a bold, inspiring rally cry for Big Tech’s biggest critics.At the other end of the spectrum: tech companies. Ideally, the likes of Facebook and Google would love to perpetually operate in the lightly regulated world that helped them grow so quickly. But even Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, acknowledged that it was “inevitable that there will be some regulation” when he testified to the House Energy and Commerce Committee in April.There’s plenty of room between those extremes. Take, for example, a report published Wednesday by the British government, which called for an overhaul of antitrust policies for Big Tech. Its main proposal: that a new regulator identify companies with “strategic market status,” then block some activities — such as promoting their own products or services in search results over those belonging to competitors (hello, Google!).That, the report’s authors say, is a “more pro-business and pro-consumer solution” than “changing antitrust law to drive breakup” of businesses.So who’s right? Mr. Zuckerberg, at least when he says regulatory intervention is inevitable. There’s strong bipartisan support for such regulation. As for where a line should be drawn, that’s harder to say.Breaking up big companies isn’t easy: It’s expensive and takes a long time. And it doesn’t always go to plan. The last notable attempt to do so, when a judge ruled two decades ago that Microsoft be cleaved for having violated antitrust law, was overturned on appeal. So Ms. Warren could have her work cut out for her.But it may ultimately become a question of balancing ambition with need. Is it better to gamble on breaking up big companies, or guarantee that new rules curb some of their behavior? That’s something that lawmakers are going to have to wrestle with.When OpenAI was founded three years ago, it had a huge goal: to build artificial intelligence software that was as capable as the human brain. Its founders said that because it was a nonprofit with noble ambitions — it had $1 billion in funding from backers to pay its way — the public could trust it to build that so-called general artificial intelligence.Only, $1 billion doesn’t go far with goals like that. Huge computing resources and big salaries to attract talent burn through cash. Actually, it turns out, some profits might be useful.So, Wired reported, Open AI announced that it was changing its business model. To keep up with Facebook and Google, it created a OpenAI L.P., a company that can take money from investors that need to return a profit, like venture funds. That will make it easier to raise funds. Down the line, it might monetize some of the technology it develops. But the company decided to cap the returns that investors will see — to $100 for every dollar invested.One way to think of that figure is that OpenAI deems a 100-times return to be an ethical margin on building a general A.I. — enough to make it a feasible endeavor, but not so much as to tar it with the Big Tech brush. That reasoning clearly holds if you inhabit Silicon Valley. But it will be interesting to see if that profit cap is enough to put everyone at ease.On March 12, 1989, Tim Berners-Lee proposed an idea for linking digital files that his boss, Mike Sendall, called “vague but exciting.” It ultimately became the World Wide Web, and 30 years later we’re left with much to love — and hate — about its existence.At an event at London’s Science Museum on Tuesday to mark the web’s passage into its fourth decade, Mr. Berners-Lee was asked what it might look like in another 30 years. Here’s what he said:■ “It’s not, I think, for us to try and guess.”■ “Look at what’s happened over the last 30 years. The web has changed really dramatically, and a lot of that we couldn’t have predicted.”■ “What we can do is we can say what web we want.”■ “We want a web which is open. We want a web which is royalty-free. We want a web which is discrimination-free.”Worthy goals. And in an article he wrote this past week, Mr. Berners-Lee laid out steps that may be required to ensure they happen:■ “Governments must translate laws and regulations for the digital age. They must ensure markets remain competitive, innovative and open.”■ “Companies must do more to ensure their pursuit of short-term profit is not at the expense of human rights, democracy, scientific fact or public safety.”■ “Platforms and products must be designed with privacy, diversity and security in mind. “■ “And most important of all, citizens must hold companies and governments accountable.”Thirty years on, Mr. Sendall’s analysis might apply equally well to this proposal, too.Elon Musk really dislikes whistle-blowers. According to Businessweek, Mr. Musk, the Tesla chief executive, set out to destroy one employee who leaked details about raw materials wastage at the company.How does Google pay off executives accused of misconduct? Handsomely: Two shared a total of $135 million, according to details that emerged from a lawsuit during the week.Who will fund the next wave of tech start-ups? That’ll be the millionaires who are created when companies like Airbnb and Uber go public.You should care about TikTok. You might never use it, but it could reshape social media as you know it.Scientists dropped a smartphone into a blender. Because that, apparently, is the best way to work out how much cobalt, gold and other substances are in there.How to disappear (almost) completely: A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps to going dark while staying online.Silicon Valley wants to build a monument. To Silicon Valley, obviously.Jamie Condliffe is editor of the DealBook newsletter. He also writes the weekly Bits newsletter. Follow him on Twitter here: @jme_c.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Vivian Yee and Hwaida SaadBEIRUT, Lebanon — Lebanon’s newly formed government, which gives the Islamist movement Hezbollah key ministries, has raised concerns that the country could run afoul of sanctions by the United States that prohibit material support for the Iran-backed group.On Friday, the United States warned Hezbollah against propping up its agenda with its new position, which includes key posts in Lebanon’s government, including in the Ministry of Health.American officials are concerned Hezbollah will use the ministry to provide state-subsidized health care and patronage jobs to its supporters and possibly even its fighters, helping it endure punishing American sanctions that have made it difficult for the group to offer its usual social services to its Shiite Muslim base.“We call on the new government to ensure the resources and services of these ministries do not provide support to Hezbollah,” said a State Department spokesman, Robert Palladino.As the new cabinet coalesced on Thursday after nearly nine months of political deadlock, the assistant United States Treasury secretary for terrorist financing, Marshall Billingslea, warned Hezbollah that if it tried to “exploit these ministries to funnel money or undertake other activities in support of their terrorist agenda, then we will have significant concerns.”Hezbollah had been expected to gain strength in government after the group and its allies expanded their share of seats in Lebanon’s parliamentary elections last May, significantly weakening the Western-backed prime minister, Saad Hariri, and his bloc. Now that it has won control of the Health Ministry, which has the fourth-largest budget in the government, its ability to embed itself in Lebanese state institutions has made it both a bigger target and a more elusive prey for the United States, which has designated it a terrorist group.Lebanon’s political system awards posts and patronage spoils to politicians of different religious affiliations in order to maintain a balance among the country’s 18 officially recognized religious sects. There is a long history of ministers of all stripes using the Health Ministry to provide free or subsidized health care to supporters. Analysts believe Hezbollah may try to do the same, whether for its Shiite base or, more troublingly for the United States, for Hezbollah fighters wounded in the Syrian civil war next door.“This is yet another example of Hezbollah openly holding Lebanon’s security and prosperity hostage,” said Rachel Mikeska, a spokeswoman for the American Embassy in Lebanon. She added that the United States was “prepared to take whatever actions are necessary to protect the interests of the Lebanese people.”She declined to say what those actions might be. But analysts said the possibilities ranged from the relatively restrained — such as reducing funding to the Health Ministry and squeezing other international donors, like the World Health Organization, to do the same — to the dire. The United States could theoretically impose sanctions on Lebanese hospitals, preventing the export of American medications to Lebanon, or cut off American military aid to the Lebanese Army.It is unclear what Hezbollah might do at the Health Ministry that the Trump administration would consider a violation of the sanctions law President Trump signed in October. Analysts said Hezbollah may have chosen Dr. Jamil Jabak, a 63-year-old internist with close ties to Hezbollah, as health minister to try to avoid direct sanctions on the ministry. Dr. Jabak is not a member of Hezbollah, but is said to have once served as a personal physician to the group’s leader.“Would Washington consider free health care to Hezbollah members provided by the Health Ministry as an example of ‘significant financial support?’” wrote Michael Young, a political observer and journalist with the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut, in an opinion column last year. “It’s difficult to say that it would never do so.”The United States’ various interests in Lebanon often end up in conflict, including when it comes to Hezbollah: It wants to counter Iran and its proxies, but also maintain Lebanon’s stability as the war in Syria continues to burn; it also wants to battle terrorism and push back on Russian influence in the Middle East.Though Washington has designated Hezbollah as a terrorist organization for its actions around the world and its close relationship to Iran, the group has also baked itself into legitimate parts of the Lebanese state, making it difficult for the United States to target it without also affecting the rest of the country.“The debate in the U.S. about Lebanon is always about which to prioritize and how to balance these competing priorities,” said Firas Maksad, the director of the Arabia Foundation, a Washington-based think tank that leans toward pro-Saudi Arabia and anti-Iran policies.On one side of the debate are anti-Iran hard-liners, who argue that “this is Iran on the Mediterranean, that Hezbollah uses the Lebanese political elite and the Lebanese government as a thin veil for political cover,” Mr. Maksad said.Those voices, which include some Republicans in Congress and members of the Trump administration, may push for cutting off aid to the Lebanese Army — a significant source of support to the armed forces — as well as to the Health Ministry.Opposing these hawkish views are those, including much of the traditional foreign policy establishment, who prefer a more measured response.Given Lebanon’s floundering economy and political instability, Mr. Maksad said, “they don’t want the whole place to come down.” (The prospect of economic collapse greatly increased pressure on the country’s political factions to strike a power-sharing agreement.)They also argue that reducing military aid would leave room for Russia, which has expanded its influence across the Middle East, to make inroads in Lebanon.In general, sanctions and financial tools have come to be the primary stick used by the United States against Iran and its regional partners. On a trip to Beirut last week, Mr. Billingslea urged Lebanese officials to exclude Hezbollah from involvement in the country’s banking and financial sectors, and called for reforms that would allow the Lebanese authorities to block and freeze accounts associated with the group.But as Hezbollah continues to expand its influence in Lebanese institutions, sanctions may prove to be an overly blunt tool, hitting legitimate government services and civilians in addition to the party.In the past, when Hezbollah played a smaller role in government, “you could easily separate between Hezbollah and state institutions,” said Hanin Ghaddar, a Lebanese-American analyst at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and a frequent critic of Hezbollah.Now, with Hezbollah commanding a broad swath of government, she asked, “How do you keep the stability of Lebanese institutions while going after Hezbollah with everything you have?”But Kassem Qassir, a Lebanese political analyst close to Hezbollah, said the concerns about Hezbollah’s dominance were overblown.“Nobody can have sole control over Lebanon, neither Hezbollah nor anybody else,” he said. “Lebanon is a diverse country.”In a televised interview on Saturday, Hassan Nasrallah, the organization’s secretary general, said the group did not intend to meddle with Lebanon’s balance of power.But Mr. Maksad noted that Hezbollah had managed to forge pacts with Christian and Sunni politicians as well as Shiite ones, then held up the formation of the new government until the prime minister, a Sunni, agreed to allow Hezbollah’s Sunni allies into the cabinet — an unmistakable mark of its strength.Of the new faces in the 30-seat cabinet, it was Dr. Jabak, the physician leading a ministry closely watched by the West, who attracted the most immediate attention.“I don’t belong to any political party,” he said in a radio interview on Friday.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Julia JacobsForty years ago, C-Span went live with its first public broadcast from the House of Representatives chamber, giving Americans a television-shaped window into how lawmakers behave in the ornate room where history is often made.Ushering in the C-Span era on March 19, 1979, was Al Gore, then a representative from Tennessee, who had pushed for the network’s access to the Capitol.“From this day forward,” Mr. Gore said at the time, “every member of this body must ask himself or herself, how many Americans are listening to the debates which are made?”Since that day, when C-Span debuted with four employees, the network has become a mainstay in American politics. We spoke with Susan Swain, one of C-Span’s two chief executives, about the birth of the network, Washington’s initial resistance to being caught on camera and how the network has adapted to the social media age.This interview with Ms. Swain, who joined C-Span three years after it started, has been edited for brevity and clarity.In the moment that Al Gore approached the lectern in the House chamber and C-Span went live, what changed in American politics?The fact that people could actually see their elected representatives in their living room — and now on their phones — was a fundamental change. In the past, people might pull the lever every two years for their member of Congress and, if they were super engaged, might read a newsletter that came in the mail or go to an occasional town hall meeting.This meant that any time you were interested, you could watch what your member of Congress had to say. Prior to television in Congress, the only time that members really got attention is if they had big names like Kennedy or if they did something outrageous, either positively or negatively, or if they were a member of the leadership.Initially, there was a lot of resistance in Washington to the idea of C-Span broadcasting House floor debates. And the Senate didn’t allow C-Span in for another seven years. Why was there such resistance?Members had concerns that the cameras would be swinging around and taking pictures of members while they were not focused attentively on the debates or — heaven forbid — closing their eyes for a second. Or today, perhaps they might be sending out a tweet.One of the ways this finally came to bear was that they created a compromise that members could live with. The compromise was that the House of Representatives, the speaker’s office, would control the cameras that were on the floor of the House. All the rest of Congress, press conferences and hearings, it’s C-Span or other news organizations covering them independently.Every time there’s a change of speaker we have sent a letter saying: ‘Now’s the time. Allow C-Span or other journalistic organizations to put our own cameras in side by side.’ That argument continues to go nowhere.Were politicians self-conscious about how they’d appear on camera? I think more so there was the concern that they wouldn’t be in control of the picture. The Senate finally acquiesced and it’s a classic story of American politics.The House was coming into people’s living rooms via C-Span and then regularly on the nightly news because what we did could be picked up regularly for nightly stories about the House. Television loves pictures, so they would do more stories about the House. The Senate was becoming concerned that it was becoming the second-tier citizen of Congress.The person who was really most instrumental is Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia, who had been one of the old-line members who was very much an institutionalist and very much concerned about how the Senate would change. He went home to West Virginia to speak and was introduced in West Virginia, his home state, as the speaker of the House. And it’s because he had a big shock of white hair, as did the then-Speaker of the House Tip O’Neill. And this brought it all home to him. So he convinced some of the recalcitrant members, they did a vote and C-Span went on in June of 1986.What is one of your most significant memories from your time at C-Span?The day that the Challenger shuttle exploded we were televising it live, and I believe I was on the air as the shuttle was going up. And it became very clear as you watched that picture of the shuttle that this was a major catastrophe.We sat and watched as long as NASA took pictures, and then the story began to unfold. Then we opened up our phone lines. There was just an incredible outpouring from around the country of people witnessing this absolute tragedy, human tragedy and also technological tragedy unfold in front of their eyes.C-Span has given politicians a platform to connect directly with their constituents, but now they can do that on social media. Is C-Span still relevant?C-Span’s relevance comes in the form of not only all of the events that we cover every day but within minutes after we televise them, they are digitized and stored on our video archives. It has 250,000 hours of political video that we’ve covered since 1987.That means a member of Congress can pull a clip from their hearing and send it out to constituents. It also means that people on social media or late-night comedians have immediate access to this.I think most people who are in their 20s or younger, if they have an experience with C-Span it is through social media, it is through the late-night comedians. The creation of our video library in 1987 was every bit as significant as the original creation of C-Span.C-Span has long fought for cameras to be allowed in the Supreme Court chamber. What are the chances that you’ll succeed?I feel a little bit like it’s Sisyphus pushing the rock up the hill. What we have documented over the years is that when people are nominated to the Supreme Court they go into their committee hearings expressing their open mind to the concept, and then once they get inside that chamber of nine, they manage to be convinced by the others there that it would be detrimental to the institution.We keep hoping that as the generations change and younger appointees come in who are very familiar with media and even social media, that the attitude will change. But the institution continues to prevail.Follow Julia Jacobs on Twitter: @juliarebeccaj.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin MuellerLONDON — Britain’s tottering efforts to leave the European Union remained at an impasse on Thursday as allies of Prime Minister Theresa May tried to keep her deal alive in the face of unbending opposition.The deal, already defeated twice in Parliament, was given new life on Wednesday after Mrs. May promised Conservative Party colleagues who are hard-line supporters of leaving the bloc that she would step down if it were passed, and let someone else take over the next stage of talks with Brussels for the process known as Brexit.[Who could be Britain’s next prime minister? Here are some contenders.]But even her offer to resign was not enough to assuage hard-line Conservatives or her putative allies in the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, or D.U.P., who hate the deal.So the government tried a new tack on Thursday: Ministers said they would disassemble Mrs. May’s deal into its two parts — one called the withdrawal agreement, and the other the political declaration — and ask Parliament to vote Friday only on the first.The withdrawal agreement outlines the terms of Britain’s exit from the European Union, while the political declaration deals with the tangled question of its future relationship with the bloc.The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.The speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, has said he would allow Parliament to vote again only if the plan had changed substantially since it had been rejected resoundingly — twice — and on Thursday he said the government had met that test.Ministers were pitching the vote to pro-Brexit hard-liners as their last opportunity to secure Britain’s exit from the European Union in the coming months, lest pro-Europeans in Parliament take control and try to frustrate Brexit or force a longer delay.Ministers also hoped the date of the vote — March 29, the originally scheduled day for Britain’s exit — would put some symbolic pressure on pro-Brexit Conservatives to swallow their objections and back Mrs. May.But the withdrawal agreement contains some of the most contentious pieces of Mrs. May’s plan.Among them is the so-called backstop that at least temporarily binds Britain and, to a greater extent, Northern Ireland to European trading rules so as to avoid customs checks on the historically contentious border between Ireland, part of the European Union, and Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom.Unionists in Northern Ireland reject the backstop because they believe it would create regulatory differences between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom, putting the union at risk.And British news media reports late Thursday said unionists intended to vote against Mrs. May’s plan again on Friday, considerably narrowing the prime minister’s path to victory.There was some hope among Conservatives that splitting Mrs. May’s plan in two would strengthen her case with opposition Labour lawmakers, whose main objections are to the political declaration and not the withdrawal agreement.But Labour leaders reacted angrily to the idea on Thursday, noting that Mrs. May had previously said the two pieces of her plan were inextricably linked.Keir Starmer, a senior Labour official, warned on Thursday that splitting them “would leave us with the blindest of blindfold Brexits.” He was referring to Labour’s fear that, if Parliament passed part of Mrs. May’s plan and the prime minister resigned, a hard-line pro-Brexit politician like Boris Johnson would take over and shape the crucial next stage of negotiations.Stephen Doughty, a Labour member of Parliament, said, “This looks to me like trickery of the highest order.”Confusion swirled all day in Parliament about the government’s plans, with ministers leaving lawmakers in the dark about what they would be voting on Friday until late in the afternoon.At the same time, anti-Brexit lawmakers were working behind the scenes to pick a few alternate plans to put before Parliament on Monday, in case Mrs. May’s deal did not pass before then.The anti-Brexit lawmakers were buoyed by votes in Parliament on Wednesday night on a catalog of proposals that clashed with Mrs. May’s.Those included once-radical ideas like holding a second public vote on Brexit or revoking Britain’s decision to leave altogether, as well as Brexit plans that would see Britain keep closer ties to Europe than Mrs. May’s proposal envisioned.The votes represented the first time in two years of Brexit negotiations that Parliament was allowed to express its feelings about alternate plans, and some lawmakers hoped they would show a path to compromise.But to the chagrin of Mrs. May’s opponents, all eight alternate plans failed to muster a majority, leading the British newspaper The Guardian to run this headline on its front page on Thursday: “No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No.”Some proposals got close. A plan for a customs union between Britain and the European Union lost by six votes. (Mr. Bercow said a tallying error had originally led him to say it was an eight-vote margin.)And the option of holding another referendum to test Britons’ views about leaving the bloc attracted more support than expected: 268 members voted in favor, and 295 against.The result on the proposal for a second referendum, coming after a weekend when hundreds of thousands of people marched in London for another vote and more than five million signed a petition asking to cancel Brexit, was a sign of how the views of anti-Brexit politicians have grown more intense as the process drags on.The nonbinding votes set the stage for another round of debate in Parliament on Monday, when the menu of alternate options is to be whittled and politicians given a second chance to coalesce behind a new plan.If Mrs. May’s withdrawal agreement passes on Friday, Parliament would meet the European Union’s deadline for completing the Brexit process and extracting Britain from the bloc by May 22.If not, Britain could crash out of the bloc without a deal on April 12 in what analysts say would be a calamitous exit, or it could ask for a longer extension.Mrs. May’s offer to resign was another reminder that, for all the anxiety in Britain over Brexit, Conservative Party politics are still dictated to a large degree by members’ leadership ambitions.Pro-Brexit politicians like Mr. Johnson have long been angling to take over from Mrs. May, and the chance to do so sooner rather than later seemed to be enough for many to back down from months of fierce opposition to her deal.Mr. Johnson once said that Mrs. May’s deal had strapped a “suicide vest” around the country. Another hard-line pro-Brexit lawmaker, Jacob Rees-Mogg, said the prime minister’s plan would turn Britain into “a slave state.”On Wednesday, both said they would back her deal.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jim Tankersley and Patricia CohenWASHINGTON — The longest government shutdown in United States history resulted in a “shocking” number of taxpayers’ calls to the Internal Revenue Service going unreturned or being left to languish on hold for unusually long periods, according to a government audit released on Tuesday.The audit, by the office of the National Taxpayer Advocate, found that over five million pieces of mail went unanswered and 87,000 amended tax returns were not processed during the shutdown, when thousands of I.R.S. workers were furloughed or working without pay.The issues were especially acute since they followed significant changes to the tax code — ushered in by President Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax overhaul — that left many people with questions about filing their returns.The problems continued even after the shutdown, the audit found. In the week that ended Feb. 2, shortly after agency employees returned to their jobs, fewer than half of the calls to the I.R.S.’s accounts-management lines were answered, compared with nearly 90 percent during the same week last year. The typical hold time for such callers increased to 17 minutes from four minutes in 2018.There were similar frustrations for those who called the agency’s so-called balance-due line in hopes of making payment arrangements for taxes they owed. Fewer than 7 percent of such calls were answered, and the typical wait for those that were stretched to more than 80 minutes.I.R.S. officials said they were reviewing the taxpayer advocate’s findings.“We are continuing to assess the impact of the shutdown on our various operations across the agency and remain proud of the many I.R.S. employees who have risen to the resulting challenges,” the agency said in a statement. “The I.R.S. is committed to continue making improvements across our information technology, tax enforcement and taxpayer service operations.”Data released by the agency last week showed that Americans had filed 12 percent fewer returns through Feb. 2, compared with the same point in 2018, and that the I.R.S. had processed 26 percent fewer returns. The agency has given no indication — in Tuesday’s statement or otherwise — that it might consider pushing back April’s tax filing deadline in order to account for shutdown-related snags.The taxpayer advocate’s audit did not focus solely on the shutdown’s impact and reflected an effort by the office, which is led by Nina E. Olson, to capture the typical taxpayer experience when dealing with I.R.S. The audit said many Americans’ feelings about the process could be boiled down to two words: “extreme frustration.”The audit found that a policy change made by the Trump administration intended to simplify the tax-filing process — the creation of a “postcard size” 1040 form — has made filing more difficult because the new form does not include much of the information that many taxpayers need to complete their returns.“The new schedules will force some taxpayers to cross-reference and transfer data such as credits, deductions and income, increasing the potential for errors to occur since the tax information is dispersed over many pages and needs to be tracked down and reported on different schedules and forms,” the report says.The problems that became apparent during the 35-day shutdown, which ended Jan. 25, underscored some of the agency’s deeper flaws, including a reliance on 1960s-era technology, the audit found. The systems that contain the official record of taxpayer accounts are the oldest in the federal government.“For the last 25 years the I.R.S. has tried — and been unable — to replace them,” the audit says, citing budgetary constraints.The outdated systems deprive the I.R.S. of a comprehensive view of taxpayers’ accounts, hampering the agency’s ability to properly identify who should be targeted for outreach, collections and audits.Inadequate financing is a primary cause of the agency’s failings, the audit found. Congress has long beat up on the I.R.S., routinely condemning its performance while cutting its budget. For example, money for technology improvements in the 2018 fiscal year was reduced 62 percent, to $110 million, from the year before.Taxpayers who called the I.R.S. last fall for advice about how the new tax law would affect them were frequently told that there was “no tax law personnel at this time due to budgetary cuts” and were disconnected, the audit found. Part of the reason was a decision by the agency to answer tax law questions only during the three and a half months from January until tax filing day.A lack of information has also meant that the vast majority of taxpayers eligible to use free software to file their returns electronically do not take advantage of the program. Of the 106 million taxpayers who could qualify for the free program, fewer than 2.5 million use it.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to a 62 percent reduction in financing for the Internal Revenue Service in the 2018 fiscal year. It applied to technology improvements specifically, not general improvements.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Dan BilefskyMONTREAL — Canadian diplomats who were posted to Cuba are suing their government, claiming that it failed to protect them and to respond robustly to a mysterious illness they acquired while stationed in Cuba.The illness, known as Havana Syndrome, has affected dozens of American and Canadian diplomats posted to Cuba, some of whom have come down with symptoms like memory loss, sleep disturbance and nosebleeds, after saying they heard a strange high-pitched sound.The suit, which was filed this week in a federal court in Toronto, says the Canadian government has been too slow to respond and did not provide sufficient medical treatment after diplomats and their children were targeted in 2017 by strange “debilitating attacks” that resulted in brain injuries without any evident physical trauma.Paul Miller, the lawyer representing the 14 diplomats, spouses and children who are suing, compared the attack that preceded their illnesses to “a science fiction horror film.”He said the plaintiffs were seeking 28 million Canadian dollars in damages.“It is a tragedy that the diplomats and some of their kids will have lifelong trauma because of these attacks,” he said.The plaintiffs are identified by pseudonyms “because of sensitivities related to their work, the nature of the injuries and the concerns expressed by Canada relating to the same,” according to the suit.The murky circumstances of the illness have drawn international speculation. Neither the United States nor Canada has determined a cause, leading to speculation that some kind of microwave weapon could be involved.Last month, the Canadian government said it would withdraw half of its diplomatic staff in Cuba after another employee fell ill from the condition, which it said had affected 14 Canadian employees, spouses and dependents.So far, 26 Americans have been affected with similar illnesses, according to the State Department.Speaking to reporters in Washington on Wednesday evening, Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland declined to comment on the specifics of the case. But she said that she had met with some of the diplomats affected, and that their health and safety was a priority.“It’s a privilege to serve Canada around the world, but it’s also really hard, and it’s something that whole families do,” she said. “I’m really concerned about them, and they have Canada’s utmost sympathy and support.”One Canadian career diplomat who is party to the suit, said that her family’s lives had been turned upside-down. The diplomat, who requested anonymity because she still worked for the government, said that while stationed in Cuba in 2017 she suddenly fell ill with debilitating headaches, which she initially attributed to stress.After hearing about the American cases of Havana Syndrome, she said she connected her symptoms to high-pitched noises that had been coming from her backyard.She said her 10-year-old daughter had been affected as well, waking up with a heavy nosebleed and later suffering headaches that forced her to miss school.She said the Canadian government had waited for months before seeking treatment for the diplomats and had prevented them from warning other colleagues who were to be posted to Cuba.The diplomat said the emotional trauma of suffering from a mysterious illness had been exacerbated by the feeling that the government did not believe them.The suit contends that, despite knowing the risks after similar attacks on American diplomats in 2016, Canada continued to send its diplomats to Havana. It accused the government of playing down the seriousness of the situation, leaving victims to “contend with the rumors that they were faking it.”The plaintiffs also contend that the government restricted the information they could share with doctors, and tried to stop the University of Pennsylvania Center for Brain Injury and Repair, which had been studying the syndrome, from testing the Canadians.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Dave PhilippsSHREVEPORT, La. — Transgender troops like Senior Airman Sterling Crutcher are seen as “an unreasonable burden” by the Trump administration. It says their presence hurts morale and the military’s ability to fight, and that they have no place in uniform.That’s news to Airman Crutcher. He just got back from a deployment with his B-52 bomber squadron, and when he did, fellow airmen in his squadron, whom he counts among his best friends, threw a shower for him and his wife, Aimee, to celebrate their first child, born in February.[Sign up for the weekly At War newsletter to receive stories about duty, conflict and consequence.]“At my level, it’s not an issue,” Airman Crutcher, 30, said about serving while transgender. “I can meet and exceed all the standards, and the people I work with, they like me. They have a lot of questions, but they don’t have a problem.”This has been an uneasy time for transgender troops in the United States military, caught between a commander in chief who wants them out and court injunctions that, at least temporarily, said they could stay. (The last of the injunctions was lifted on Thursday.)But dozens of transgender troops like Airman Crutcher said in interviews that they felt supported in the service. Their comrades and commanders have welcomed them, they said, and the military has often been more accepting than the homes and neighborhoods they left to enlist.Nearly 1,000 troops officially deemed as transgender are currently serving in the American military, according to the Defense Department, and another 228 are in the process of enlisting. They are all over the globe in a wide spectrum of roles — infantry officers, armor platoon leaders, drill sergeants, intelligence specialists, Arabic linguists, nuclear reactor operators. A transgender instructor teaches leadership at the Naval Academy.They started coming out publicly in 2016 when the military lifted a longtime ban, after concluding that doing so would have no significant negative impact on budgets or operations. But President Trump announced an abrupt reversal of policy on Twitter a year later, saying he would no longer allow transgender troops to serve “in any capacity.”The Defense Department laid out its arguments for excluding transgender troops before the House Armed Services Committee late last month. James N. Stewart, a senior Pentagon official, testified that transgender troops were more prone to mental health issues than other troops, and that when they transition, medical treatments can make them nondeployable for months — factors that he said would make recruits ineligible to serve if they stemmed from other kinds of pre-existing health conditions.Mr. Stewart, who is a retired Air Force general, rejected calling the policy a ban, saying that the policy drafted after the president’s Twitter announcement still allows transgender troops to serve, as long as they never transition.He argued that having troops who have transitioned in the ranks could also raise complicated questions about physical fitness standards and access to shower and bathroom facilities that may upset others, leading “to unnecessary and debilitating leadership challenges.”Other troops and military leaders disagree. Five transgender troops who also testified at the hearing said that, aside from the uncertainty created by the change in policy, they had encountered few problems transitioning in uniform. Instances of harassment have been few, according to Sparta, an association of transgender troops.And in testimony before the Senate last spring, the heads of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps all said they were not aware of any issues caused by having transgender troops serving openly.Airman Crutcher says that few people outside his unit realize he is transgender. He relaxes on weekends by playing video games and has Airsoft gun battles with the other troops from his unit.“There’s nothing remarkable about him either way,” said Senior Airman Kyle Daily, who serves in the same squadron. “There are some people in the unit who don’t agree with what he is, but they’re the minority.”Many transgender recruits come from socially conservative small towns or strict religious upbringings, and have spent their youth feeling like misfits. Some troops who were born anatomically male said in interviews that they enlisted with the initial hope that military service would drum feminine feelings out of them.“I hoped it would straighten me out — I didn’t want my family to hate me,” said Aylanna Anderson, an Air Force staff sergeant who was raised Catholic in a tiny West Texas town and became an Eagle Scout. “I hoped I could leave what I saw as this dark part of me behind.”To her surprise, after enlisting in 2012, Sergeant Anderson said, she found a culture that emphasized judging people by ability, not identity. She began to transition to female in 2017.“The military has been very freeing,” she said by phone from Kunsan Air Base in South Korea, where she repairs electronics in F-16 fighters. “I don’t know if I could have done it otherwise.”Airman Crutcher, who grew up in a Pentecostal household in rural Missouri, said he wrote a heartfelt letter to his family about his lifelong sense of being a boy in a girl’s body, but they refused to read it, asking him instead if he was on drugs.By contrast, when he came out to his Air Force commander, he said the reaction was, “What do I need to do for you? I want to make sure you are supported.”A few days back from a deployment to Guam with his bomber squadron, he was shopping for a crib with his pregnant wife when they got a text from his mother.But it wasn’t his birth mother, who he says essentially disowned him after he told her in 2015 that he was transgender. It was his Air Force mother — Kim Thomas, the wife of a lieutenant colonel, who informally adopted him after meeting him during basic training. He now spends holidays with her family and calls her Mom.“She’s the best,” Airman Crutcher said as he leaned over his wife’s phone to see the photo Ms. Thomas had sent of a new outfit for the baby. “It was life-changing to have that support of family who love me no matter what.”Ms. Thomas said taking Airman Crutcher under her wing came naturally. “Here is this amazing kid who volunteered to fight and die for our country,” she said. “We are not going to allow him to go through the military without support.”A 2016 RAND Corporation study found that nearly one-fifth of transgender troops do not plan to transition medically. Those who do transition may, depending on gender and preference, undergo hormone therapy, breast removal and other procedures, like surgery to make facial features and voices more gender appropriate. All are covered by the military.Transitioning troops can also request surgery to change their genitals, but the approval process and recovery time can be lengthy. The Defense Department did not respond to questions about how many such gender reassignment procedures had been performed on troops since the ban was lifted in 2016; Sparta estimates the figure at about six.The cost and disruption associated with surgery is a chief complaint of critics, but the  RAND study estimated that those factors would be negligible, with fewer than 200 active troops transitioning per year at a total cost of less than $10 million. In interviews, troops who have transitioned said they tried to time their surgical procedures for scheduled lulls in unit activity, and sometimes put them off because of deployments or demanding work assignments.Even so, transitioning can detour careers. Some Sparta members said they had been removed from sensitive jobs such as pilots, air traffic controllers or nuclear missile operators, out of concern that they might be mentally unstable.Regulations can get in the way, as well. Airman Crutcher was sent home early from a 2016 deployment to Qatar when medical staff discovered that the testosterone treatments he was receiving violated a rule about injected medications for troops deployed in the region.“I was crushed,” he said. “My major called me in and said he had fought for me to stay, but it was regulations.”Capt. Alivia Stehlik is a transgender woman who graduated from West Point as a man in 2008, completed the Army’s punishing Ranger School and led an infantry platoon. She is now an Army physical therapist stationed at Fort Carson, Colo.In an interview at her home, she said her transition should be seen as an asset, not a burden.She volunteered to deploy to Afghanistan with an infantry brigade last spring after the unit’s regular physical therapist became pregnant. Captain Stehlik spent nearly a year hopping helicopters from base to base, treating sprains and other injuries with a medical bag in one hand and an M-4 rifle in the other.Six-foot-three and broad-shouldered, she said it would have been pretty obvious to the 1,700 soldiers she treated that she was transgender, but it was never a problem.“It’s not just that as a woman I can still do the same job I did as a man — I can actually do it better,” Captain Stehlik said. “People were actually more open with me because I had made myself more vulnerable to them. I think if I were still a guy, they might have downplayed how much things hurt, tried to act tough. And I might have, too.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth A. HarrisThe United States Copyright Office said that a dance first popularized on the TV show “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air” could not be copyrighted by the actor who created it, according to court documents filed this week.Alfonso Ribeiro, the actor who played Carlton on the show, is one of several performers who have sued video game makers in recent months saying that dances, which can be purchased and then performed by avatars in games, have been stolen from them. Mr. Ribeiro sued Epic Games, the maker of Fortnite Battle Royale, as well as Take-Two Interactive Software, which makes NBA 2K16.But the copyright office was not convinced that what Mr. Ribeiro called the Carlton Dance — in which he enthusiastically swings his arms and sways his hips — was eligible for copyright protection, saying it was a “simple routine,” not complex enough to clear the bar.“That does not surprise me in the least,” said Robert Brauneis, co-director of the intellectual property program at George Washington University Law School.“It’s like a word or a short phrase,” Professor Brauneis said. “The copyright office has always taken the position that words or phrases are not copyrightable, and this is exactly like a word or a phrase in a dance. You could repeat that word or phrase indefinitely — here I’m shaking my hips, here I’m shaking my hips, again and again — but that repetition doesn’t make the fragment subject to copyright protection.”Courts are not bound by the copyright office’s decision and could reach a different conclusion, but Professor Brauneis said the copyright office’s determination would be taken into consideration.Mr. Ribeiro’s lawyer, David L. Hecht, said he planned to ask the copyright office to reconsider, because even if the individual movements are considered simple, the way his clients have arranged those movements should be considered choreographic works.“It’s the same as when you combine notes in a musical composition,” he said. “Those compilations would be entitled to copyright protection under the law.”Mr. Hecht said that Mr. Ribeiro submitted three copyright applications. Two have now been rejected and one is still under consideration. Mr. Hecht said that a request for copyright by the rapper 2 Milly was rejected when he tried to register the Milly Rock, and that he too will ask that the copyright office reconsider. But some of his clients have had better luck. Russell Horning, a teenager known as “Backpack Kid,” was able to register with the office a 30-second dance that Mr. Hecht described as a “variant” of a dance called the Floss.Epic Games and Take-Two Interactive declined to comment on Friday.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Pérez-Peña and Stephen CastleLONDON — A small but influential party aligned with Prime Minister Theresa May’s government suggested on Friday that it still cannot support her plan for Britain’s departure from the European Union, a development that could doom her hopes of persuading Parliament to pass the deal next week on the third try.The Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland holds just 10 seats in the 650-seat House of Commons. But the central sticking point in the talks on a British withdrawal has been how to handle the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland, and the party’s position carries disproportionate weight with others in Parliament.Parliament has twice rejected the agreement that Mrs. May negotiated with the European Union for Britain’s departure, known as Brexit, and both times the D.U.P. has voted against it, largely because of concerns about the border issue.If Parliament rejects the deal again, there is still the possibility of a cliff-edge Brexit in the short term or a much longer delay to renegotiate the agreement to leave.Mrs. May’s position appears to grow more precarious by the day — not only her chances of winning approval of the Brexit deal, but her hold on power. Longstanding talk that she could be ousted by her own party, or by Parliament as a whole, has intensified, becoming a constant rumble in the background to all she says or does.On Tuesday, the speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, ruled that she could not bring her plan to a vote for a third time without a substantive change to it. On Wednesday, she delivered a speech blaming Parliament for the paralysis, angering lawmakers on all sides.On Thursday, European Union leaders agreed to postpone the March 29 departure date, but rejected the prime minister’s request for a three-month delay, giving her only until next week to win parliamentary approval for her deal or come up with some alternative by April 12.If her deal is agreed by Parliament, Britain’s exit will be pushed back to May 22. On Friday came the blow from the Democratic Unionist Party, and on Monday, lawmakers will try once again to seize some control over Brexit policy from Mrs. May.Nigel Dodds, the leader of the D.U.P.’s caucus in Parliament, said in a statement posted on the party’s website that it was “inexcusable” that Mrs. May had met with the bloc’s leaders but had not won any major concessions.“The government has been far too willing to capitulate before securing the necessary changes which would get an agreement through the House of Commons,” he said.His party and many others who support a withdrawal contend that Mrs. May’s deal could leave Britain trapped, by making it subject to some European Union economic rules indefinitely. And by treating Northern Ireland differently from the rest of the nation, they say, the deal risks splitting the United Kingdom apart.“Nothing has changed as far as the Withdrawal Agreement is concerned,” Mr. Dodds said. “We will not accept any deal which poses a long-term risk to the constitutional and economic integrity of the United Kingdom.”Mrs. May has planned to try for a third vote in Parliament, but she would need to win the votes of about 70 members. That was considered a tall order even before Mr. Dodds’s message, and several Brexit supporters from the prime minister’s Conservative Party had said they would follow the D.U.P.’s lead.She still has a few more days to win over her critics, and is unlikely to take Mr. Dodds’s statement as his party’s final word. But it is another blow to her, capping a frenetic week of setbacks.With Mrs. May’s leadership being questioned by fellow Conservatives, a third rejection of her plan would increase pressure on her to resign. Her shifting signals on how she might proceed after such a defeat have alienated some lawmakers.She has little room for error. Conservatives are short of a majority, and have been able to govern — until recently — with the support of the Democratic Unionists.On Monday, Parliament is scheduled to consider what could be the first major step toward taking control of the process away from her government. It will vote on whether to hold a rapid-fire series of votes on specific alternatives to her plan.A similar proposal was defeated last week, but by just two votes, 314 to 312, and Mrs. May’s standing has not improved since then.Having Parliament state its preferences could allow some form of cross-party consensus to emerge in favor of a form of Brexit that keeps closer ties to the European Union than Mrs. May, or most of her party, would like. That would require reopening negotiations with the bloc, which would mean a long delay.European leaders have made it clear that they doubt Parliament will approve Mrs. May’s plan, one reason they were willing to grant only a short postponement. The extension makes April 12 the new date that Britain will leave the union, if Parliament rejects the deal again or if Mrs. May cannot create a credible alternative.Leaving without a pact in place with Europe would upend Britain’s trade relationships, and experts say it would do serious economic damage — a prospect that the prime minister has used to pressure those who want a soft Brexit or no Brexit.But the hard-core Brexit supporters like the idea of a “no-deal” withdrawal, and insist that the predictions of harm are wrong, leaving them little incentive to support Mrs. May.Meanwhile, pro-European Conservatives, who regard an abrupt and chaotic departure with dread, may be motivated to turn against her and vote on Monday to exert more parliamentary control.Under the new timetable, if Parliament approves Mrs. May’s deal, Brexit will take effect on May 22, giving Britain time to work out some of the details.The alternative, European Union officials have said, is a long delay, possibly two years, for Britain to rethink its position and, possibly, restart negotiations.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie AstorThe House Oversight and Reform Committee is investigating allegations of voter suppression in Georgia under Secretary of State Brian Kemp, who has since become governor.The investigation was revealed in letters that the committee’s Democratic leaders sent on Wednesday to Mr. Kemp and his successor as secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger. The letters instructed Mr. Kemp and Mr. Raffensperger — both Republicans — to provide by March 20 a wide range of documents concerning voter roll purges; holds placed on voter registration applications; polling site changes and closings; and other voting-related issues.The committee also requested all documents related to the potential conflict of interest Mr. Kemp faced in administering an election in which he was a candidate.“The Committee is particularly concerned by reports that Georgians faced unprecedented challenges with registering to vote and significant barriers to casting their votes during your tenure as secretary of state and during the 2018 election,” Representatives Elijah E. Cummings, the committee chairman, and Jamie Raskin, head of the Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, wrote to Mr. Kemp.Mr. Kemp and Republicans on the committee immediately dismissed the investigation as a political effort, aimed at undermining the results of an election that Democrats lost.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]The letter outlined several points of scrutiny during the 2018 governor’s race, in which Stacey Abrams, a Democrat, posed a strong challenge to Mr. Kemp in a normally solidly Republican state.Many voters, especially in heavily African-American counties, waited at polling places for hours while “hundreds of available voting machines sat unused in government warehouses,” the letter noted. State officials had sequestered those machines in response to a federal lawsuit that said they were vulnerable to hacking.Tens of thousands of voter registration applications, mostly from African-Americans, were held up under a state law that requires the name on the application to exactly match the name on the applicant’s government ID; even a missing hyphen can cause problems.Mr. Kemp’s office purged more than 1.4 million voters from the rolls during his tenure. (States are required to keep their rolls up-to-date and remove people who have moved, but some, including Georgia, have been much more zealous than others, starting the purging process on the basis of a voter not having cast a ballot recently.) And county and state officials closed more than 200 polling places from 2012 to 2018.Throughout the campaign, Mr. Kemp denied intentional voter suppression. Asked for comment on Wednesday, his spokesman directed The Times to video of a news conference where Mr. Kemp suggested that the investigation was a politically motivated distraction from more important issues.“They need to quit playing politics up there,” Mr. Kemp said at the news conference, before pivoting to an attack on House Democrats for giving billions of dollars in disaster aid to Puerto Rico “when we have our own farmers that are fixing to lose their farm.” He said nothing about the substance of the allegations or the document requests, and his spokesman did not respond to a follow-up email.Mr. Raffensperger, the current secretary of state, said that he had received his own letter and that his office “looks forward to an open dialogue and a thorough process.”Mr. Cummings and Mr. Raskin, the Democratic committee leaders, were not immediately available for interviews on Wednesday. But their decision to open the investigation was more evidence that House Democrats, newly empowered by the November election, intend to act aggressively on issues like allegations of voter suppression that were on the back burner for the first two years of the Trump administration.Representative Jim Jordan, the committee’s ranking Republican, said through a spokesman that it was “highly unusual for a congressional committee to involve itself in a state’s election.”“This is squarely in the purview of the state of Georgia, not the House Oversight Committee,” Mr. Jordan said in a statement. “We can’t help but think that attempts by the Democrats to insert the committee into the state’s business is an attempt to relitigate an election result that they do not like.”Mr. Kemp narrowly defeated Ms. Abrams, who ended her campaign by declaring, “This is not a speech of concession, because concession means to acknowledge an action is right, true or proper.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — A powerful Democratic House committee chairman investigating possible abuses of the government’s security clearance process stepped up demands on Friday to see key documents and interview potential witnesses from the White House in light of a new report that President Trump personally intervened to grant his son-in-law a top-secret clearance despite legal and national security concerns.The chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, who leads the House Oversight and Reform Committee, accused the White House in a new letter of stonewalling his requests for information and implied that if it did not comply voluntarily, he would issue a subpoena to compel its cooperation.He said the report, published by The New York Times, added new concerns that Mr. Trump was lying to the public about his role in the clearance process to existing and broader questions about irregularities surrounding who should have access to sensitive government secrets.“If true, these new reports raise grave questions about what derogatory information career officials obtained about Mr. Kushner to recommend denying him access to our nation’s most sensitive secrets,” Mr. Cummings wrote in a letter to Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel. The letter went on to ask about “why President Trump concealed his role in overruling that recommendation, why General Kelly and Mr. McGahn both felt compelled to document these actions, and why your office is continuing to withhold key documents and witnesses from this Committee.”The report in The New York Times said that Mr. Trump’s intervention so concerned senior administration officials that John F. Kelly, then the White House chief of staff, documented the action in a contemporaneous internal memo that said he had been “ordered” to grant Mr. Kushner a top-secret clearance.The Times also reported that Donald F. McGahn II, then the White House counsel, wrote a memo of his own documenting concerns raised by the C.I.A. and other officials about Mr. Kushner. Mr. McGahn, the memo noted, had recommended against giving him such broad access to the government’s secrets.Mr. Trump told The Times in January in an Oval Office interview that he had no role in Mr. Kushner’s clearance.Mr. Cummings has been pursuing reported irregularities by the White House and the Trump transition team since 2017, when Republicans were in control of the House. But he started a broad inquiry of his own last month after taking control of the oversight panel, Congress’s most muscular investigative body, which he said he hoped would shine light on any national security risks that may exist.He has specifically requested information on the clearances of nine current and former administration officials, including Mr. Kushner. Among those whose clearances he intends to scrutinize are Mr. Trump’s current and former national security advisers, John R. Bolton and Michael T. Flynn; his onetime staff secretary, Rob Porter; a former senior director on the National Security Council, Robin Townley; a former deputy national security adviser, K. T. McFarland; as well as Sebastian Gorka, a former deputy assistant to the president.Mr. Cummings has also asked for documents related to a review of the security clearance process that Mr. Kelly conducted in 2018 that concluded there were serious flaws in the system meant to vet high-level officials. And Mr. Cummings wants to talk to “all personnel in the White House Personnel Security Office.”The White House, he said on Friday, has thus far not complied.In a sign that House Democrats would seek to further elevate the issue in their oversight agenda, Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said on Thursday that his panel, responsible for overseeing American intelligence agencies, would work with Mr. Cummings’.Mr. Schiff called Mr. Trump’s actions the “latest indicator of the president’s utter disregard for our national security and for the men and women who sacrifice so much every day to keep us safe.”Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kenneth P. VogelWASHINGTON — Michael D. Cohen’s congressional testimony on Wednesday revived questions about whether President Trump broke the law by failing to disclose that he footed the bill for a hush payment to a pornographic film actress.Members of the House Oversight and Reform Committee grilled Mr. Cohen, who served for a decade as the president’s so-called fixer, about a $130,000 payment he made just before the 2016 presidential election to the actress to keep her quiet about her claim that she had an affair with Mr. Trump.Mr. Cohen testified that he was reimbursed in installments by Mr. Trump and his company, the Trump Organization, starting in early 2017 for the payment to the actress, Stormy Daniels.But Mr. Trump failed to list the arrangement or the outstanding debt owed to Mr. Cohen on a financial disclosure statement submitted in June 2017 under government ethics laws requiring top federal officials to divulge detailed information about their finances. On his 2018 form, he included a footnote listing a repayment of $100,001 to $250,000 to Mr. Cohen, raising questions about whether the 2017 filing had improperly omitted the debt. Democrats pounced on that omission on Wednesday.[Donald Trump “inflated” the value of his assets in documents given to Deutsche Bank, Michael Cohen testified.]“Why do you think the president did not provide the accurate information in his 2017 financial disclosure form?” Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, asked Mr. Cohen. “What was he trying to hide?”Mr. Cohen responded that Mr. Trump was trying to avoid publicly revealing “the payments on the reimbursement of the funds that I extended on his behalf.”Mr. Cohen asserted later that Mr. Trump’s goal in providing the reimbursements in installments “was in order to hide what the payment was.”The hush payment has become an increasing problem for Mr. Trump, who initially said in 2018 that he was unaware of the payment to Ms. Daniels. He later acknowledged the existence of the payment in a series of Twitter posts, but asserted that the payment had nothing to do with the election, and as such could not be considered an undisclosed campaign contribution.Last year, Mr. Cohen contradicted that, pleading guilty to a litany of charges, including violating campaign finance laws in connection with the hush payment.In his congressional testimony on Wednesday, Mr. Cohen elaborated on the payment scheme and the motivation. “It was either somebody wire the funds and purchase the life rights to the story from Ms. Clifford, or it was going to end up being sold to television, and that would have embarrassed the president and it would have interfered with the election,” Mr. Cohen said, referring to Ms. Daniels, whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford.He produced financial records showing that he fronted the $130,000 from his home equity line, as well as two $35,000 checks — one from Mr. Trump and one from an account linked to his business — that he said were among 11 payments to reimburse him for the hush payment.Ultimately, he said he was paid $420,000 over a year in connection with the hush payments, which he explained included funds to allow him to pay taxes on the payment and a $60,000 bonus.All of this was done at the express direction of Mr. Trump, Mr. Cohen testified. “We discussed it,” he said. “Everything had to go through Mr. Trump and it had to be approved by Mr. Trump.”The testimony seemed to buttress claims by Democrats and government watchdog groups that Mr. Trump knowingly made a false statement to the United States government by omitting the debts owed to Mr. Cohen from his 2017 personal financial disclosure statement.“This was congressional oversight actually yielding new evidence of wrongdoing at the highest level of government and that’s something congress is supposed to do in our system of checks and balances,” said Noah Bookbinder, the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.His group filed a complaint last year with the Justice Department and the Office of Government Ethics asking for an investigation into whether Mr. Trump failed to disclose the debt. And on Wednesday, he said “while it can look like a technical paperwork violation, it really goes to the issue of keeping the voters from knowing what they need to know to make educated decisions.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON — Donald Trump specializes in spectacular breakups.First there was Ivana. Then there was Marla. Now comes trouble in paradise with Kim.Last fall, Trump cooed that the North Korean dictator wrote him “beautiful letters” and “we fell in love,” but then the president canceled their lunch date following their disappointing rendezvous in Hanoi.Yet all the crazy tabloid splits and international spats seem pallid in comparison to the pathetic spectacle in Congress on Wednesday: a heartbroken ex publicly and bitterly processing his relationship with Trump.This time, it wasn’t just lust, betrayal and secrets splayed across Page Six. This time, it was in Congress, part of an investigation that could lead to legal jeopardy for the Trumps or impeachment for the president.In his testimony, Michael Cohen called himself a “fool” when it came to Trump. “I ignored my conscience and acted loyal to a man when I should not have,” Cohen said. A fool for love, held in thrall by Trump. How could anyone be held in thrall by such a sleazy goofball, much less offer to take a bullet for him or make 500 threats on his behalf?“It seems unbelievable that I was so mesmerized by Donald Trump that I was willing to do things for him that I knew were absolutely wrong,” said Cohen in his “Goodfellas” accent, adding that being around the “icon” was “intoxicating.”“Mr. Trump is an enigma,” Cohen said. “He is complicated, as am I.”Actually, Trump is simple, grasping for money, attention and fame. The enigma about Trump is why he cut off his lap dog so brutally that Cohen fell into the embrace of Robert Mueller and New York federal prosecutors. Trump is often compared to a mob boss, but Michael Corleone would never turn on a loyal capo, only on one who had crossed him.The portrait Cohen drew of Trump was not surprising. It has been apparent for some time that the president is a con man, racist, cheat and liar. (See: Jared Kushner security clearance.)What was most compelling about the congressional hearing was the portrait of the sadistic relationship between the sycophant and the sociopath.Cohen told the House Oversight Committee that working for Trump had made him feel that he was “involved in something greater than yourself — that you were somehow changing the world.”Threatening to sue people and take away their livelihoods or ruin their reputations isn’t exactly Greenpeace or Doctors Without Borders. But Cohen was chugging Trump Kool-Aid. He saw himself as Trump’s protector, the thug’s thug.In late 2017, he appeared to get misty while talking to Vanity Fair’s Emily Jane Fox about Trump: “One man who wants to do so much good with so many detractors against him needs support.” He vowed he would never walk away from Trump, no matter what. A year ago, he even shopped around a book that was meant to be a rebuttal to Michael Wolff’s “Fire and Fury,” pitched as the “family fix-it guy” and titled “Trump Revolution: From the Tower to the White House, Understanding Donald J. Trump.”He understands Trump now.A stung Trump went on a tweet storm Friday morning, bringing up that book proposal, calling it a “‘love letter to Trump’ manuscript,” and noting: “Written and submitted long after Charlottesville and Helsinki, his phony reasons for going rogue. Book is exact opposite of his fake testimony, which now is a lie!”Unlike many Republican TV commentators who can wash away past sins about Sarah Palin and the Iraq war — and get a big payday and liberal love — by trashing Trump, Cohen is not destined for reputation rehab.The problem in a nutshell, as Trump biographer Timothy O’Brien once told The Times, was that Michael Cohen wasn’t Roy Cohn. The latter Trump lawyer was the one who helped shape Trump’s character or lack thereof, drumming in the win-at-all-costs mentality Donald had learned at his father’s knee.Trump, who once bleated “Where’s my Roy Cohn?” in his anger about Jeff Sessions recusing himself, wanted a lawyer who was whip-smart, amoral, ruthless and predatory. Cohen was merely Renfield to Trump’s Dracula, gratefully eating insects and doing the fiend’s bidding.Trump used Cohen for dirty deeds done dirt cheap, as ACDC sang.The Wall Street Journal reported that Trump showed up late to Cohen’s son’s bar mitzvah and then made a belittling speech about how he had come only because Cohen had begged him and everyone around him. The Times revealed last April that Trump had regularly threatened to fire Cohen and quoted Roger Stone saying that Trump mocked Cohen for overpaying for Trump real estate.With a few exceptions in his inner circle and with family, Trump doesn’t give loyalty or deserve it. That’s why Republicans on the Hill who so obsequiously stand by him will eventually learn it wasn’t worth it, just as Cohen warned them.Loyalty is a rare commodity in Washington. And Cohen is not the most wretched sycophant in political history. That honor goes to Andrew Young, a slavishly devoted aide to John Edwards during the 2008 campaign who served as a driver, personal shopper, handyman and butler to the North Carolina senator.When Edwards had an affair with campaign videographer Rielle Hunter and a pregnancy ensued, he persuaded Young to say that he was the father. Edwards also got Young to go on the lam with his wife, who was a nurse, and Hunter and the baby, hiding out in fancy hotels and a posh home near Santa Barbara — an odyssey financed by Young and Bunny Mellon. As Young wrote in “The Politician,” inside the campaign there was “a cult-like atmosphere” that encouraged extreme sycophancy.When Trump gave me a tour of his campaign headquarters in Trump Tower in the summer of 2016, he introduced Cohen as “my lawyer.” Cohen looked furtive, standing around with Trump favorites Corey Lewandowski and Hope Hicks and a few young guys at a desk and a whole bunch of Trump portraits and cutouts and a wall with pictures of Trump’s vanquished primary rivals.It was the least presidential campaign headquarters ever, with the drywall still unfinished in some places. As The Times reported, Cohen, who had been pushing for years for Trump to be president, was jealous of the attention Trump gave Lewandowski.When Trump somehow stumbled into the presidency, he and his family did not think Cohen was up to snuff to come to Washington, much less get some high-level job like chief of staff that he dreamed of. The Journal reported that Cohen and his guests did not even get priority access to the inaugural fetes.“He was central casting for Trump Tower but not for 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue,” Trump biographer Michael D’Antonio told me. “The problem is, of course, that much of what burdens Cohen is exactly what Trump liked about him in the past. He was willing to be awful on command and had done so countless times making countless enemies. As someone who was the target of this behavior, I can tell you it was so cartoonish as to be ridiculous.”Everyone is disposable in Trumpworld. They sidelined the fixer. By the time federal prosecutors were investigating Cohen’s hush payments to Trump inamoratas, an adult-film actress and a former Playboy model, Trump was barely speaking to Cohen.“Boss, I miss you so much,” he said in a rare phone call with Trump, The Journal reported. “I wish I was down there with you. It’s really hard for me to be here.”The yearning was even more palpable than texts from Jeff Bezos to Lauren Sanchez.The self-styled protector was in purdah and he resented it.“If Trump was more sophisticated and had the ability to think long term, he would have anticipated that Cohen might have become a problem if he didn’t hold him close,” O’Brien told me. But Trump isn’t a long-term thinker.“He’s never had to deal with the people he has face-planted coming back to haunt him — ever. He’s been doing this to people for decades,” O’Brien said. The difference now? “He never had law enforcement turning people on him and essentially weaponizing them against him.”D’Antonio agreed that “the president made the mistake of disrespecting Cohen because he believed he had purchased Michael and that he would stay bought. When the underdog turns and bites hard, the overdog is always surprised.”I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byHe said working for Donald Trump was “intoxicating.” We’re all feeling hung over.By Michelle CottleMs. Cottle is a member of the editorial board.“Liar, liar, pants on fire!”It was Representative Paul Gosar, Republican of Arizona, who burst forth with this playground taunt of Michael Cohen, the longtime fixer and personal lawyer for President Trump who appeared Wednesday before the House Oversight and Reform Committee to talk about his former boss.But Mr. Gosar’s observation was more than an isolated zinger; it was an encapsulation of his party’s overarching approach to Mr. Cohen’s testimony. It also provides a pretty good sense of how few minds the hearing is likely to change in this era of bitter polarization — and how tough it can be to bring any clarity to the swirl of controversies engulfing this president.As that spectacle was opening in Washington, 12 time zones away, in Hanoi, the president was wrapping up a friendly dinner with Kim Jong-un, the tyrannical leader of North Korea. Mr. Trump hopes that the pageantry of peacemaking in Asia will overshadow the damaging testimony of the former confidant he has written off as a lying “rat.”We await the results of Mr. Trump’s and Mr. Kim’s negotiations. We hope that they are more edifying than the House hearings.Oh, and India and Pakistan — both possessed of nuclear weapons — were engaged in escalating hostilities, including the downing of two Indian warplanes on Wednesday.This is the world we live in.On Capitol Hill, committee Republicans did not waste their time disputing Mr. Cohen’s characterization of Mr. Trump as “a racist,” “a con man” and “a cheat.” At one point, Representative Mark Meadows asked Lynne Patton, an African-American woman who worked for the Trump family as a party planner and now serves in the administration, to stand behind him, citing her as proof that the president cannot possibly be racist. That’s about as substantive as the pushback got.Instead, Republicans stuck to discrediting and vivisecting the witness. Member after member detailed Mr. Cohen’s financial fraud, his tax evasion, his professional disloyalty and, of course, his previous lies to Congress. The committee’s ranking Republican, Jim Jordan — in high-dudgeon and dangerously over-caffeinated — seemed particularly troubled by the origins and authenticity of a Twitter account, Women for Cohen, that pushed out ridiculous flattery about Mr. Cohen’s manliness: #sexy! #handsome!Message: Mr. Cohen is a liar, a “swindler,” a narcissist and a felon whom only a fool would listen to. Multiple Republicans, in fact, went on at length about what a disgrace it was that Democrats had provided a platform for such a scoundrel.While quibbling with details here and there, Mr. Cohen did not disagree with the Republicans’ critique. Early and often, he acknowledged he had done some bad things for which he soon would be spending time in prison. He did, however, at one point feel moved to observe to Mr. Jordan:“I just find it interesting, sir, that between yourself and your colleagues, that not one question so far … has been asked about President Trump. That’s actually why I thought I was coming today.”Aware of his credibility problems, Mr. Cohen showed up with hard proof of Trumpian misdeeds: a personal check from the president, allegedly used to reimburse Mr. Cohen for his payment to Stormy Daniels; evidence that Mr. Trump arranged to have a portrait of himself purchased at a charity auction by a straw buyer, who was then repaid through Mr. Trump’s charitable foundation; and letters that Mr. Trump had instructed Mr. Cohen to write, warning the president’s high school, colleges and the College Board not to release his grades or test scores without his permission.Mr. Cohen noted that threatening people on Mr. Trump’s behalf was an integral part of his job, estimating that, over a decade, he was called upon to do so around 500 times.The whole dreary spectacle produced only a few fresh tidbits — such as Mr. Cohen’s claim that Mr. Trump, a year into his term, explicitly directed him to lie about the president’s involvement in the hush-money scheme — none of which seem likely to alter the competing narratives being pushed by the president’s critics and allies. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the Democrat’s star freshman, laid the groundwork for demanding the president’s tax returns and issuing future subpoenas to more Trump lackeys. Mr. Cohen suggested that federal prosecutors in New York are investigating as-yet-unrevealed Trumpian crimes. He also ominously fretted: “I fear that if he loses the election in 2020 that there will never be a peaceful transition of power.”Mr. Cohen said that working for Mr. Trump was “intoxicating.” But something has changed. Mr. Cohen’s performance is likely the first of many such soul-barings to play out in hearing rooms and courtrooms over coming months.“I regret the day I said ‘yes’ to Mr. Trump,” he said. “I regret all the help and support I gave him along the way.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders discuss Mr. Cohen’s credibility and critique the questioners. To the Editor: Re “Cohen Accuses Trump of Lies and Cover-Ups” (front page, Feb. 28):The political theater on display at Wednesday’s hearing revealed as much about the state of our country as it did about the character and deeds of Michael Cohen and Donald Trump. It was a wrenching, hard-to-swallow exposé of the polarizing and blasé political, legal and cultural climate that has allowed the likes of Michael Cohen to operate and thrive for so long as Mr. Trump’s personal fixer, intimidator and enabler. We are only beginning to see the consequences.We will see no meaningful correction until our country as a whole is willing to deal with the root causes of such pervasive dysfunction.Angel Kozeli MozinaBostonTo the Editor:Michael Cohen’s credibility rests not only on the corroborating documentation that he brought with him. His portrait of the president matches perfectly with everything we know about the man, from his oratory, his actions and his tweets.Peter ClothierLaguna Beach, Calif.To the Editor:Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez put her colleagues to shame. She demonstrated what a hearing should entail. Be prepared to ask factual questions and listen. The rest of the committee members have a lot to learn from her. Kay DormanLong Beach Township, N.J. To the Editor:Re “Republican Offers Appointee as Living Proof Trump’s No Racist” (news article, Feb. 28):Representative Mark Meadows should be ashamed of his “some of my best friends are black” stunt by having a former Trump Organization employee who is black appear at the hearing. The mere fact that he thinks that’s probative on the issue of racism demonstrates that he just doesn’t get it.Lawrence WeismanWestport, Conn.To the Editor:I know we live in an age of facts and alternative facts, news and fake news, but Michael Cohen’s testimony lies somewhere in that no man’s land between myth and reality. It was a poorly scripted and badly acted effort to look sincere while at the same time settling scores. Shakespeare had it right: It is a tale “full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.” Bernard F. DickTeaneck, N.J.To the Editor:As I listened to Representative Elijah Cummings’s closing remarks, I could not imagine such comments coming from previous Republican chairmen of the Oversight Committee — from the likes of Trey Gowdy or Darrell Issa or Jason Chaffetz. So imbued with grace were the remarks of Mr. Cummings, so devoid of polish or signs of preparation, so piercing and haunting a cry for a better America that they stood in stark difference to the party of Donald Trump, whose members demonstrated that they could only evince belligerent snark, ad hominem attacks and an utter lack of concern for the truth. Jack SwansonIrvine, Calif.To the Editor:Despite their ranting, raving and pounding on the table, the Republican members of the House Oversight Committee implied agreement with everything Michael Cohen said by not questioning his facts.It’s great to see both parties in agreement.Jon MeyersonBeverly MeyersonSarasota, Fla.To the Editor:President Trump’s signature on the $35,000 check points to his having possibly committed a crime while in office. The thing is, the hush money scheme is very likely the crime that got him the office. Had the Stormy Daniels scandal not been hushed up, there’s a good chance he would have lost the election. That takes this possible crime to a whole new level. It’s not just any old campaign finance violation.Vicki Riba KoestlerAlexandria, Va.To the Editor:The irony of Republican representatives trying to smear Michael Cohen during his testimony by quoting newspaper articles from the “fake media” was too rich. The media are “fake” until they’re not. How convenient.Susan M. BrantingColumbia, Md.To the Editor:I was delighted to see the vigorous insistence on truth-telling by Republican members of the House Oversight Committee in their questioning of Michael Cohen. Maybe they will get used to it.Alan GotthelfNew YorkAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byToo many representatives chose to bloviate instead of interrogate — except for one.By Caroline FredricksonMs. Fredrickson is the president of the American Constitution Society.On Wednesday, Michael Cohen, President Trump’s one-time personal lawyer and “fixer,” testified in front of the House Oversight and Reform Committee about what he says are a variety of shady practices he participated in when working for the president. People around the country awaited riveting testimony, some going so far as to join “watch parties” in bars. But like so many congressional hearings, the fireworks were quick to flame out. Even with the tantalizing opportunity to grill Mr. Cohen on the myriad ways his former boss most likely sought to evade the law and avoid his creditors, many members of the committee, from both parties, could not resist their usual grandstanding. Consider the line of questioning from Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York. She asked Mr. Cohen a series of specific questions about how Mr. Trump had handled insurance claims and whether he had provided accurate information to various companies. “To your knowledge,” she asked, “did Donald Trump ever provide inflated assets to an insurance company?” He had. She asked whether Mr. Trump had tried to reduce his local taxes by undervaluing his assets. Mr. Cohen confirmed that the president had also done that. “You deflate the value of the asset and then you put in a request to the tax department for a deduction,” Mr. Cohen said, explaining the practice. These were the sort of questions, and answers, the committee was supposed to elicit. Somehow, only the newer members got the memo.[Get a more personal, less conventional take on political developments, newsmakers, cultural milestones and more with Frank Bruni’s weekly newsletter.]Ms. Ocasio-Cortez continued, asking, “Do you think we need to review financial statements and tax returns in order to compare them?” She pressed Mr. Cohen for the names of others who would be able to corroborate the testimony or provide documents to support the charges. In response, Mr. Cohen listed the executives Allen Weisselberg, Ron Lieberman and Matthew Calamari — names that, thanks in part to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, we will probably hear more about in the coming months.These questions were not random, but, rather, well thought out. Like a good prosecutor, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was establishing the factual basis for further committee investigation. She asked one question at a time, avoided long-winded speeches on why she was asking the question, and listened carefully to his answer, which gave her the basis for a follow-up inquiry. As a result, Mr. Cohen gave specific answers about Mr. Trump’s shady practices, along with a road map for how to find out more. Mr. Cohen began his testimony calling Mr. Trump a “con man and a cheat”; In just five minutes, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez actually helped him lay out the facts to substantiate those charges. Unfortunately, too few of her colleagues followed suit. In his testimony, Mr. Cohen claimed numerous ethical breaches and criminal acts on the part of the president, many for which Mr. Cohen himself apparently served as main actor. He spoke of illegal campaign payoffs, rigging of electoral polls, threatening people who had crossed the president, possible witness tampering, and even falsifying financial records. He spoke of conduct in and out of office that would cross even the most generous reading of ethical and legal boundaries.All of these areas offered fruitful avenues for exploration. But instead of asking probing questions and eliciting damning evidence from Mr. Cohen, too many committee members chose to make a speech. Jeffrey Toobin of The New Yorker tweeted in frustration, “Bipartisan incompetence in the questioning at #cohen hearing. All they do is make speeches, and fail to listen to answers or follow up.” He then tweeted sample follow-up questions, hoping desperately that someone might just try. He did give credit to several members who understand the art of questioning, including Representatives Katie Hill and Jackie Speier. But it is shocking how few members actually understand the basic function of a hearing — or chose to ignore collective goals in favor of showboating. As someone who has worked on the Hill and as a nonprofit advocate, I am accustomed to the frustration of opportunities lost, of questions not asked, or of witnesses who are allowed to get away without really answering a question. Often the stakes are low and so the cost is not so great. But as Committee Chairman Elijah Cummings’s outstanding closing remarks made clear, what we face now as a nation is so consequential, as the president faces multiple inquiries about possible collusion with a foreign power, that we need more from members of Congress. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has many followers on social media. I hope her colleagues will start to follow her example in the hearing room.Caroline Fredrickson (@crfredrickson) is the president of the American Constitution Society and author of “Under the Bus: How Working Women Are Being Run Over” and the forthcoming “The Democracy Fix: How to Win the Fight for Fair Rules, Fair Courts and Fair Elections.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
Michael D. Cohen, the former lawyer and fixer for President Donald J. Trump, took the stand on Wednesday, February 27, 2019, to testify publicly against Mr. Trump before the House Oversight Committee.“This is a part of your destiny,” Cummings tells Cohen.I want to point out that not a single questioner in this Democrat-led House asked Cohen about his relationship with Sean Hannity, who he described as a legal client to the court in New York.Ooh, good point, Maggie.What a day.And with that, Cummings brings the gavel down and the hearing to a close.Cohen will be back on Capitol Hill tomorrow, testifying behind closed doors to the House intelligence committee.This was an astonishing day in congress, one without precedent. Cummings gave Cohen a powerful and cinematic final statement, as a cap on what was said. Cohen is being swarmed by people in the middle of the hearing room as he tries to exit.I agree, Maggie. We have grown accustomed since Trump came on the national stage to extraordinary political moments. Even in that context, today sure feels like one of them. Michael Cohen, once one of Trump’s closest aides, rebuked him under oath before Congress, warned that he was a threat to American democracy and implicated a sitting president in criminal activity in his campaign for office.A forceful closing statement by Chairman Cummings, a call to action - “We have Got to Get Back to Normal! This hearing is adjourned.”There are going to be days of debate about what Cohen said. His comments about Donald Trump Jr. will be dismissed by the president’s allies and aides. His comments about Roger Stone and Wikileaks have been objected to by Stone, and by Trump, in an interview a few weeks ago. But the checks that Cohen brought with him are indisputable.And those checks were reimbursements for hush money signed by the president and his son and the chief financial officer of his company.Cohen painted the picture more in line with a mob boss, not a US president.And while Republicans no doubt landed some blows on Cohen, I am not sure they undercut him enough so as to negate that evidence and the more concrete elements of his testimony.I agree with this, Nick.I hope folks will check out Peter Baker’s and Nick’s story about the day, which you can find herewww.nytimes.com/2019/02/27/us/politics/michael-cohen-testifies-tr…Thanks for reading along, folks. Not sure if there will be a next time quite like this, but if there is, we hope to see you then.This just in, on a key aspect of Cohen’s testimony, from a Trump lawyer.Statement from Jay Sekulow, Counsel to the President:“Today’s testimony by Michael Cohen that attorneys for the President edited or changed his statement to Congress to alter the duration of the Trump Tower Moscow negotiations is completely false.”And now, with that, we’re really signing off. Thanks again, folks.
AdvertisementSupported byIt is apparently legal for the president’s son-in-law to serve as a top White House adviser. But that is not a grant of immunity. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.For President Trump, the era of congressional oversight is shaping up to be a family affair, with his three eldest children — Donald Jr., Ivanka and Eric — at risk of getting swept up in multiple investigations. But none of the Trump clan may face a more thorough going-over than Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and top White House adviser.Mr. Kushner this week was among a long list of Trumpworld intimates asked to provide documents to the House Judiciary Committee as it looks into possible presidential misdeeds.This request landed just as the continuing tussle was heating up between Mr. Kushner and the House Oversight and Reform Committee, which is examining claims that Mr. Trump arranged to have his son-in-law granted top-secret security clearance over the objections of intelligence officials.In both cases, the White House has signaled its intent to defy Congress, arguing executive privilege and legislative overreach. On Monday, the White House counsel, Pat Cipollone, sent a letter to the oversight committee chairman, Elijah Cummings, rebuffing his request and effectively daring him to start issuing subpoenas. Mr. Cummings said he would confer with colleagues to determine what comes next.However Democrats proceed, Mr. Kushner’s peculiar role in his father-in-law’s White House has prompted widespread concern that is both broader and more specific than the generic questions of accountability and competence often raised by raw nepotism.Unease about Mr. Kushner’s access to secret information appears to go beyond politics. Mr. Trump’s own intelligence officials are said to have balked at the idea of giving his son-in-law such access, as did Donald McGahn during his stint as White House counsel.Mr. Trump overrode such advice and ordered Mr. Kushner’s clearance granted, which it was last May.These were not casual, offhand objections. After the president made his decision, Mr. McGahn was reportedly so troubled that he wrote an internal memo detailing the concerns about Mr. Kushner — including from the C.I.A. — and making clear that he had recommended against the move.John Kelly, at that time the White House chief of staff, is said to have felt similarly moved to write a memo stating that he had been explicitly “ordered” by the president to grant Mr. Kushner’s clearance.If true, this is yet another point on which Mr. Trump has misled the public, insisting in January that he had played no role in arranging his son-in-law’s clearance. Just last month, Ivanka Trump made a similar claim, asserting that her father “had no involvement pertaining to my clearance or my husband’s clearance, zero.”Those untruths are nowhere near as troubling as the fact that intelligence and administration officials were reportedly loath to grant Mr. Kushner access to the government’s deepest secrets.What was the C.I.A.’s specific hesitation concerning Mr. Kushner and top-secret information? Why does the agency continue to deny him access to “sensitive compartmentalized information”? Why did the F.B.I. raise questions about foreign influence over Mr. Kushner?As The Times reported last month:“The full scope of intelligence officials’ concerns about Mr. Kushner is not known. But the clearance had been held up in part over questions from the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. about his foreign and business contacts, including those related to Israel, the United Arab Emirates and Russia, according to multiple people familiar with the events.” Mr. Kushner’s inaccurate statements to the F.B.I. about his foreign interactions are cause for additional concern.And many, many eyebrows have been raised over Mr. Kushner’s special friendship with Mohammed bin Salman, the crown prince of Saudi Arabia — a coziness strategically and aggressively cultivated by the Saudis. Out of fear that Mr. Kushner, naïve in the ways of diplomacy and foreign affairs, was susceptible to manipulation by the prince, Mr. Kelly attempted to curtail the two men’s private talks by reinstating a requirement that National Security Council officials participate in calls with foreign leaders. No matter: Mr. Kushner and Prince Mohammed’s bond grew, even withstanding the conclusion by American intelligence agencies that the prince ordered the torture and murder of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Amid global outrage over the killing, Mr. Kushner has been among the prince’s fiercest defenders.Mr. Kushner is not a low-level White House functionary. He has been charged with bringing peace to the Middle East, and he is the president’s star emissary to the Saudi government. The public has a compelling interest in knowing what made the intelligence community so nervous about him. Putting a member of the president’s family in the investigatory hot seat is a delicate business. Voters can get squeamish watching a politician’s wife or daughter or son-in-law field tough questions. That’s no excuse for letting them avoid accountability.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThey’ve got better things to do in Dripping Springs.By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistSo. Michael Cohen started off his testimony by declaring that the president of the United States was “a racist,” a “con man” and a “cheat.” The Republicans who were supposed to be grilling him responded by saying … um.Well, mainly they complained that the hearing was happening. (“I am appalled. We could be focused on actual issues that are facing America, like border security.”)Nobody jumped up and yelled: “A racist? How dare you call this man a racist?” To be fair, one Republican committee member did demur, and brought in a black government appointee to stand there and look diverse.But you couldn’t say there were a lot of expressions of shock. Nobody announced having it on good authority that all those checks Cohen got from Trump were not reimbursements for the Stormy Daniels payoff, but rather anonymous donations to an orphanage.The Republicans simply argued, over and over, that the whole thing was a dumb waste of time.“I talked to my beautiful wife back in Dripping Springs, Tex., just before the hearing. I said, ‘Don’t bother watching,’” said Representative Chip Roy.The hearing was before the House Oversight Committee, which is, of course, now under new Democratic control. Cohen showed the members a $35,000 check that he said the president gave him as a partial repayment for the Stormy Daniels payoff.Nothing better than an evidence exhibit. But the public is so inured to Trump scandals now there’s almost no way to raise new excitement about Stormy’s sex-with-the-future-president story. Unless Cohen could have demonstrated that his then-boss wrote “hush money” on the check memo.Nevertheless, there are always new things to be learned.For instance, Cohen testified about Donald Trump Jr.’s role in the payoff deal. In passing, he said the president thought his son had “the worst judgment of anyone in the world.”Wonder how Junior reacted to that? This was presumably before Ivanka, who’s supposed to be the bright one in the family, denounced the idea of a guaranteed minimum wage because she felt all Americans “want to work for what they get.”Cohen claimed that in all his years of serving as Trump’s hatchet man he never once heard his boss “say anything in private that led me to believe that he loved our nation or wanted to make it better.”That could have been a cue for Republicans to offer up a multitude of examples to the contrary. But for the most part, all we got was one white male representative after another announcing that Cohen had to be ignored because he’s due to go to “prison for lying.”Almost everybody who knows Donald Trump appears to be going to prison for lying. Or is awaiting sentencing for lying. Or is facing charges of lying. If you are a Donald Trump intimate and the federal authorities come calling, be careful to tell the truth. Or move to Papua New Guinea.Even for the most jaded Trump watcher, there were parts of the Cohen testimony worth discussing. For instance, he said Trump threatened legal action to make sure his old high school, colleges and the College Board kept his grades and SAT score secret.Certainly not a surprise that Trump doesn’t want to publicize the details of his academic career. But still a great question to keep harping on, if only because it will drive him completely nuts. Maybe every day the House Democrats could make a speech about it on the floor. And introduce a C student with a sense of humor who could announce he’s proud to be following in the presidential footsteps of intellectual mediocrity.Cohen testified that Trump had him going back and forth with Forbes magazine in an attempt to get a good spot on the Wealthiest list. While simultaneously trying to push down the income he reported for tax purposes. Let’s hope the Democrats use it as another lever to get their hands on those tax returns. Truly that would be a development even better than calling Donald Jr. to testify about his role in the Cohen payments and his father’s assessment of his judgment.We certainly know that Cohen is not … perfect. After all, he spent 12 years as Trump’s lawyer. Representative Jim Jordan, the top Republican on the committee, even brought up Women for Cohen, an account put up to promote his little-known role as a “sex symbol.”But Cohen made a pretty good witness, looking appropriately miserable and answering questions convincingly, with some balance. He told the lawmakers rumors about a mystery tape showing Trump hitting his wife in an elevator were untrue and “in my opinion that’s not something he would do.” On the other hand, he said Trump did make him call Melania and lie about the Stormy Daniels unpleasantness.While all this was going on, the president was in Asia, dining with Kim Jong-un of North Korea. Previous negotiations with Kim have produced monster publicity and very little in the way of nuclear disarmament.Nevertheless, Trump seems to believe this may get him a Nobel Peace Prize. He really seems to want that a lot. Maybe if the Nobel committee offered to trade it for his tax returns …The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — The chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee revealed information on Thursday that he said showed Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner used private messaging services for official White House business in a way that may have violated federal records laws.The chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, said that a lawyer for Ms. Trump, President Trump’s daughter, and Mr. Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, told the committee late last year that in addition to a private email account, Mr. Kushner uses an unofficial encrypted messaging service, WhatsApp, for official White House business, including with foreign contacts.Mr. Cummings said the lawyer, Abbe Lowell, also told lawmakers that Ms. Trump did not preserve some emails sent to her private account if she did not reply to them.Democrats have barely been able to contain their frustration at what they see as a dark irony in the findings — and in earlier news reports about the couple’s use of private email accounts. Mr. Trump made Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state a central line of attack in his 2016 campaign for president. Even after the F.B.I. declined to charge Mrs. Clinton for her practices and handling of classified information, Republicans in Congress have continued to pick away at the case.[Update: The use of private email and chats, this time by Trump’s family, comes under fire.]Mr. Lowell could not say if Mr. Kushner had communicated classified information on the messaging service, WhatsApp, telling lawmakers that was “above my pay grade.” He asserted that because Mr. Kushner took screenshots of the communications and sent them to his official White House account or the National Security Council, his client was not in violation of federal records laws.In a letter on Thursday disclosing the new information, Mr. Cummings said the findings added urgency to his investigation of possible violations of the Presidential Records Act by members of the Trump administration, including Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump. He accused the White House of stonewalling his committee on information that it had requested months ago, when Republicans still controlled the House.“The White House’s failure to provide documents and information is obstructing the committee’s investigation into allegations of violations of federal records laws by White House officials,” Mr. Cummings wrote. He said he would “be forced to consider alternative means to obtain compliance” if documents he requested about White House communications and record keeping were not shared with the committee, an indication he could subpoena them.Steven Groves, a White House lawyer, said the White House would review Mr. Cummings’s letter and “provide a reasonable response in due course.”Mr. Lowell, in a letter of his own, accused Mr. Cummings of misrepresenting parts of what he told lawmakers last year and disputed suggestions that either of his clients had broken the law.The oversight committee first began scrutinizing the use of private communications services at the White House in 2017 amid news reports that Mr. Kushner had used a private email account for government business and then that Ms. Trump had done the same.Mr. Kushner’s use of WhatsApp was also reported earlier in at least one instance, but its scope was not previously known. CNN reported in October that Mr. Kushner had communicated with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the de facto leader of Saudi Arabia, using WhatsApp.Mr. Lowell confirmed details of Mr. Kushner’s private messaging use — though not his communications with Prince Mohammed — during a meeting in December with Mr. Cummings and the committee’s chairman at the time, Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina. Asked if Mr. Kushner had been cleared to use the messaging app to communicate with foreign leaders, Mr. Lowell recommended that the lawmakers ask the National Security Council and the White House, Mr. Cummings said.On Thursday, Mr. Lowell said that contrary to what Mr. Cummings’s letter asserted, he had not confirmed that the president’s son-in-law was communicating on WhatsApp with foreign “leaders,” merely that he messaged with “some people.” More broadly, Mr. Lowell said he had told lawmakers that he was not privy to many details of Mr. Kushner’s use of WhatsApp, instructing them, “that is a question for the White House counsel, not me.”Mr. Lowell also took issue with Mr. Cummings’s account of what he said about Ms. Trump.In his letter, Mr. Cummings said that after speaking to Mr. Lowell, he believed Ms. Trump could also potentially be in violation of the Presidential Records Act because of her use of a private email account. Specifically, he said Mr. Lowell had told the committee that although Ms. Trump forwards work-related emails received on her personal account to an official government account, she only does so if she responds to the message.Mr. Lowell, though, said that was oversimplifying his response. In the exchange highlighted by the chairman, he had been referring to Ms. Trump’s practices before September 2017, he said. Since then, he said, “she always forwards official business to her White House account.”Mr. Cummings’s committee is separately investigating the circumstances under which Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump, and other administration officials, received security clearances. The New York Times reported last month that Mr. Trump had personally intervened to secure a top-secret clearance for Mr. Kushner despite legal and national security concerns raised by his advisers.Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump do not appear to be the only current or former White House officials in Mr. Cummings’s sights for their personal email use. He wrote on Thursday that he had also obtained documents apparently showing that K. T. McFarland had used a personal AOL account for official business while she served as deputy national security adviser and that Stephen K. Bannon had done the same while a White House adviser.Mr. Cummings set an April 4 deadline for the White House to comply with his latest requests. To what extent it will do so, though, remains to be seen.The White House has generally been resistant so far to satisfy requests from House Democrats.On Thursday, the White House counsel, Pat Cipollone, rejected another request from Mr. Cummings and the chairmen of the Intelligence and Foreign Affairs committees  for information about Mr. Trump’s private communications with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. In a letter, he said that the Constitution and the courts had granted the president broad authority to conduct foreign policy and that presidents of both parties had rightly fought to protect their communications with foreign leaders.“While we respectfully seek to accommodate appropriate oversight requests, we are unaware of any precedent supporting such sweeping requests,” Mr. Cipollone wrote.Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Haberman and Annie KarniWASHINGTON — In the waning days of the 2016 presidential campaign, Donald J. Trump turned his focus to the F.B.I. investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server when she was secretary of state, suggesting it was “bigger than Watergate.”“Her criminal action was willful, deliberate, intentional and purposeful,” he said at a rally in Phoenix. “Hillary set up an illegal server for the obvious purpose of shielding her criminal conduct from public disclosure and exposure, knowing full well that her actions put our national security at risk.”Democrats now charge that Mr. Trump’s eldest daughter and her husband, who both serve as aides to the president, did the same things he pilloried Mrs. Clinton for doing.The basis for their accusations was the letter Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, sent on Thursday to Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel, saying that Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, has used WhatsApp, an unofficial encrypted messaging service, to communicate with foreign contacts about official White House business.Mr. Cummings also said that Ivanka Trump, the president’s eldest daughter, did not preserve some emails that were sent to her private account, as she claimed in the past, contradicting her own previous claims and possibly violating federal records laws.It is not the first time that questions have been raised about how Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner have used private communications in their government roles. Both have used personal email accounts to communicate with other White House officials and cabinet secretaries about official business. But the irony of the new accusations was savored by Mrs. Clinton’s former aides.“For his endless faults, Jared should at least know what chutzpah means,” said Philippe Reines, a top adviser to Mrs. Clinton, referring to the Yiddish word meaning “gall.”“And while there’s no specific Yiddish word for continuing the practice even after the Democrats took control of the House, ‘mashugana’ fits,” Mr. Reines said, referring to the word meaning “crazy.”Mr. Cummings based his findings about Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner on what the committee had been told by the couple’s lawyer, Abbe Lowell. But Mr. Lowell insisted in a letter to the committee that Mr. Cummings was twisting his statements and that he had not said what had been claimed.A spokeswoman for the committee said that it was confident in the facts described and that “if Mr. Lowell would like to produce any documents to aid in our investigation, then the committee is open to receiving that information.”Republican members of the House Oversight Committee who attended the meeting with Mr. Lowell said in an internal memo late Friday that Mr. Cummings’s letter “falsely maligned” Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner. They said he had misconstrued and mischaracterized what Mr. Lowell said. In their recollections, they said, Mr. Lowell described the government-related emails as minimal, said they were all preserved and said that no classified material had been sent.And they rejected comparisons to Mrs. Clinton, saying she set up her private server specifically to evade records requests.Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner in the past have insisted that there was “no equivalency” between Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server, while she served as secretary of state, and their use of private email accounts to conduct some of their government affairs.“Everything’s been preserved, everything’s been archived, there just is no equivalency between the two things,” Ms. Trump said in an interview with “Good Morning America” last year, after initial reports that she had used a personal email account for government work.But Mr. Cummings’s letter suggested that there was reason to believe that was not the case.The disclosures about Mr. Kushner’s and Ms. Trump’s methods of communication raise questions not just about whether they violated the federal law in not preserving their communications but whether they shared classified information on their nongovernment accounts — the same kinds of charges that Mr. Trump thought disqualified his 2016 opponent and were enough to put her in jail.“The more serious issue may be not so much that there has been a violation of the Presidential Records Act, but the reason for a decision to circumvent it,” said Robert F. Bauer, who served as White House counsel for former President Barack Obama. “That is the red flag.”A White House official insisted that Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump had never improperly handled classified material.In the past, Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner have claimed that they were not familiar with the rules that applied to them. Yet current and former White House officials familiar with the guidance that all aides there are given have said the two were given ample warning. That includes warnings about using chat apps, which are supposed to be prohibited for government business.The couple has continued to balk at the notion that there are similarities in their circumstances with Mrs. Clinton’s. There are some differences, but there are also a lot of equivalencies, according to lawyer familiar with federal record keeping.Mrs. Clinton’s case occurred under the Federal Records Act and regulations promulgated by the State Department. Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump’s case, in contrast, concerns the Presidential Records Act, which was passed in 1978 after the Watergate scandal and declares that all presidential records are public property. The most important thing it did, according to attorneys, was prohibit the destruction of records that are described as private.Mr. Lowell said at the time that he did not know if Mr. Kushner had communicated classified information on the messaging service, WhatsApp, telling lawmakers that was “above my pay grade.” He argued that Mr. Kushner took screenshots of the communications and sent them to his official White House account or the National Security Council and had therefore not violated federal records laws.But Mrs. Clinton’s former aides said they were not willing to give Mr. Kushner, in particular, the benefit of the doubt.“WhatsApp has two main uses: you’re trying to save on international data charges or you’re trying to hide your communications and circumvent the law,” said Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton. “I think it’s pretty clear which of these appeals to Jared Kushner.”Brian Fallon, who served as Mrs. Clinton’s press secretary during the 2016 campaign, said he thought “Kushner is not above lying to his own lawyers for the purposes of navigating a tricky PR situation. The idea he faithfully took screenshots is probably bogus.”Mr. Fallon, who also served as a Justice Department spokesman in the Obama administration, said that Congress could ask Facebook for proof that Mr. Kushner took screenshots of his messages, and that the White House could also investigate whether those screen grabs exist on its servers.“This is not something the country should have to take Jared Kushner and his lawyers’ words for,” he said.The former Clinton aides also cited Mr. Kushner’s omission of dozens of meetings with foreign leaders, including Russian contacts, on the forms required to gain a top-secret security clearance, an omission his lawyer at the time called a clerical error. And Mr. Lowell, in a statement, implied that someone in the White House misled him when he claimed that Mr. Trump did not intervene to grant him his clearance, although he did not specify who.An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to the timing of an appearance Ivanka Trump made on “Good Morning America.” The appearance came shortly after reports that Ms. Trump had used a personal email account for government work, not unrelated reports that Hillary Clinton had.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byMy appearance before Congress helped take down a president. Will the same thing happen to Trump?By John W. DeanMr. Dean was a White House counsel under Richard Nixon.There are several parallels between my testimony before Congress in 1973, about President Richard Nixon and his White House, and Michael Cohen’s testimony this week about President Trump and his business practices. Setting aside the differences regarding how we got there, we both found ourselves speaking before Congress, in multiple open and closed venues, about criminal conduct of a sitting president of the United States. This is not a pleasant place to be, particularly given the presidents involved.There are some differences: Unlike Mr. Cohen, who testified in public for a day, I testified for five days. His prepared statement was about 4,000 words; mine was some 60,000 words. Nielsen reports over 16 million people watched his testimony. I am told over 80 million people watched all or part of mine.Polls varied widely after my testimony. One said 50 percent of Americans believed me, 30 percent did not, and 20 percent were not sure. Another poll had 38 percent believing the president, who denied my statement, and 37 percent believing me. The instant polls on Mr. Cohen’s testimony vary by party affiliation, as was the case with my polls. But 35 percent found him credible. I believe that number will grow.While my testimony was eventually corroborated by secret recordings of our conversations made by Mr. Nixon, before that it was other witnesses who made the difference. I was surprised by the number of people who surfaced to support my account. The same, I suspect, will happen for Michael Cohen. The Mafia’s code of omertà has no force in public service. I have heard no one other than Roger Stone say he will go to jail for Donald Trump.Mr. Cohen should understand that if Mr. Trump is removed from office, or defeated in 2020, in part because of his testimony, he will be reminded of it for the rest of his life. He will be blamed by Republicans but appreciated by Democrats. If he achieves anything short of discovering the cure for cancer, he will always live in this pigeonhole. How do I know this? I am still dealing with it.Just as Mr. Nixon had his admirers and apologists, so it is with Mr. Trump. Some of these people will forever be rewriting history, and they will try to rewrite it at Mr. Cohen’s expense. They will put words in his mouth that he never spoke. They will place him at events at which he wasn’t present and locations where he has never been. Some have tried rewriting my life, and they will rewrite his, too.I am thinking of people like Mr. Stone, the longtime Trump associate who worked on the 1972 Nixon campaign and so admires the former president that he has a tattoo of the man’s likeness between his shoulder blades. Mr. Stone, whom I never met while at the White House, has been indicted as part of the inquiry by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, on charges of lying to Congress about his efforts to contact WikiLeaks during the 2016 presidential campaign. He prides himself as a political dirty trickster, and he has never met a conspiracy theory he did not believe. Mr. Cohen can be sure that Mr. Stone will promote new conspiracy theories to defend Mr. Trump and himself, even if it means rewriting history. Presidential scandals tend to attract a remarkable number of dishonest “historians.”There is one overarching similarity that Mr. Cohen and I share. He came to understand and reject Mr. Trump as I did Mr. Nixon. Mr. Nixon first called on me regarding Watergate some eight months after the arrests of his re-election committee operatives at the Watergate. We had 37 conversations, and when I felt I had his confidence, I tried but failed to get him to end the cover-up. The day I told Mr. Nixon there was a cancer on his presidency was the day I met the real Nixon. I knew I had to break rank.Mr. Cohen has likewise come to see Mr. Trump for his true nature. At the very end of his testimony before the House Oversight Committee, he sought permission to read a closing statement. He thanked the members, and again accepted responsibility for his bad behavior. He then told the legislators, “Given my experience working for Mr. Trump, I fear that if he loses the election in 2020 that there will never be a peaceful transition of power, and this is why I agreed to appear before you today.” This was the most troubling — actually, chilling — thing he said in his five hours before the committee.Since Mr. Cohen’s warning came in his closing words, there was no opportunity for committee members to ask follow-up questions. So I double-checked with his lawyer, Lanny Davis, if I had understood Mr. Cohen’s testimony correctly. Mr. Davis responded, “He was referring to Trump’s authoritarian mind-set, and lack of respect for democracy and democratic institutions.” Indeed, what is most similar about my and Mr. Cohen’s testimony is that we both challenged authoritarian presidents of the United States by revealing their lies and abuses of power. Mr. Trump is the first authoritarian president since Mr. Nixon, and neither he nor his supporters will play fair. Mr. Cohen will be dealing with these people the rest of his life.In fact, all Americans are affected by the growing authoritarianism that made Mr. Trump president. These people who facilitated his rise will remain long after Mr. Trump is gone. We need to pay more attention.John W. Dean, who served as White House counsel under Richard Nixon, is the author of “Conservatives Without Conscience,” which he is revising to discuss Donald Trump and his followers in collaboration with Bob Altemeyer, a retired professor of psychology at the University of Manitoba, a leading expert on authoritarianism.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter Baker and Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — President Trump’s longtime lawyer and fixer accused him on Wednesday of an expansive pattern of lies and criminality, offering a damning portrayal of life inside the president’s orbit where he said advisers sacrificed integrity for proximity to power.Michael D. Cohen, who represented Mr. Trump for a decade, laid out for Congress for the first time a series of deceptions by the president. He charged that Mr. Trump lied to the public about business interests in Russia, lied to reporters about stolen Democratic emails and told Mr. Cohen to lie about hush payments to cover up sexual misconduct.The accusations, aired at a daylong hearing before the House Oversight and Reform Committee, exposed a dark underside of Mr. Trump’s business and political worlds in the voice of one of the ultimate insiders. Perhaps no close associate has turned on a president in front of Congress in such dramatic fashion and with such high stakes since John Dean testified against President Richard M. Nixon during the Watergate scandal.“He is a racist. He is a con man. And he is a cheat,” Mr. Cohen said of the president. Mr. Cohen, who has pleaded guilty to lying under oath to Congress, among other crimes, said he did so to protect Mr. Trump. “I am not protecting Mr. Trump anymore,” he said.While the details have been different, his portrait of the president broadly resembles those provided by others who have split with Mr. Trump, including former aides, business associates and even his onetime ghostwriter, who likewise have described a president who bullies, dissembles and cheats to serve his own interests.[Donald Trump “inflated” the value of his assets in documents given to Deutsche Bank, Michael Cohen testified.]But it remained unclear whether Mr. Cohen’s testimony would change the political dynamics of a series of scandals that have already polarized Washington and the country and that could lead to an impeachment battle this year. Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland and the committee chairman, said afterward that Mr. Trump may have committed a crime while in office, but Republicans were unmoved.Assailing Mr. Cohen as a proven liar, they denounced the hearing as a “charade” and an “embarrassment for our country” orchestrated by partisan Democrats seeking a pretext to try to remove Mr. Trump from office. Democrats said Republicans “ran away from the truth” as they sought to defend a corrupt president who has employed “textbook mob tactics.”Michael D. Cohen, the former lawyer and fixer for President Donald J. Trump, took the stand on Wednesday morning to testify publicly against Mr. Trump before the House Oversight Committee.The hearing took place while the president was halfway around the world in Vietnam for a meeting with North Korea’s leader. His family and advisers expressed anger at the timing, arguing that Democrats were undercutting Mr. Trump during sensitive nuclear diplomacy for political gain.As with so many other moments of the Trump era, the hearing seemed to be as much about partisan theater as fact-finding. Democrats and Republicans set forth their conflicting narratives about the man who once served Mr. Trump, either as a duplicitous disgruntled former employee or a fallen sinner trying to redeem himself by coming clean.Through it all sat Mr. Cohen, 52, with dark circles under his puffy eyes, already tired from eight hours of testimony behind closed doors the day before and awaiting a three-year prison term that begins this spring. Apologizing repeatedly to his family, Mr. Cohen portrayed himself as a broken man brought down by hubris, at one point choking up and wiping tears from his eyes at the mention of the effect on his daughter.Through some five hours of nationally televised testimony, Mr. Cohen described his years working for Mr. Trump as a trip into a world of deceit in which the now-disbarred lawyer ignored his own conscience to get close to a magnetic person of power.“Sitting here today, it seems unbelievable that I was so mesmerized by Donald Trump that I was willing to do things for him that I knew were absolutely wrong,” Mr. Cohen said. When he met Mr. Trump, he knew him as “a real estate giant and an icon” at the center of the action. “Being around Mr. Trump was intoxicating,” he said.In private business, Mr. Cohen said he rationalized Mr. Trump’s dishonesty as “trivial,” but as president, he said, “I consider it significant and dangerous.”The president’s re-election campaign organization dismissed Mr. Cohen on Wednesday as a convicted perjurer who should not be trusted. “This is the same Michael Cohen who has admitted that he lied to Congress previously,” Kayleigh McEnany, the campaign’s national press secretary, said in a statement. “Why did they even bother to swear him in this time?”Republicans on the committee aggressively challenged Mr. Cohen along the same lines. Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, the ranking Republican, called Mr. Cohen a “fraudster, cheat, convicted felon and, in two months, a federal inmate.”Mr. Jordan questioned Mr. Cohen’s motives in assailing Mr. Trump’s character and actions, suggesting that the former lawyer was embittered because the new president did not bring him to Washington.“You wanted to work in the White House — ” Mr. Jordan said.“No, sir,” Mr. Cohen replied.“ — and you didn’t get brought to the dance.”“I did not want to go to the White House,” Mr. Cohen asserted.Eric Trump, one of the president’s sons, took issue with that on Twitter. “Michael was lobbying EVERYONE to be ‘Chief of Staff,’” he wrote. “It was the biggest joke in the campaign and around the office. Did he just perjure himself again?”The hearing drew enormous interest on Capitol Hill, where Democrats last month took control of the House and are under pressure from their liberal base to take on Mr. Trump. The crowds were huge and the sense of drama palpable. Lawmakers of both parties listened raptly to Mr. Cohen’s 30-minute opening statement.Mr. Cohen laid out a series of actions by Mr. Trump that bolster previous accusations and news stories, presenting documents to corroborate his account, including copies of checks issued by the president or his trust that he said were reimbursements for $130,000 in hush payments Mr. Cohen made to Stormy Daniels, a pornographic film actress who alleged an affair with Mr. Trump.Mr. Cohen said that Mr. Trump, as a candidate, initiated the hush payment plan and, while president, arranged for 11 checks reimbursing the lawyer “as part of a criminal scheme to violate campaign finance laws,” a crime to which Mr. Cohen has pleaded guilty.After news reports about the payments in February 2018, Mr. Cohen told lawmakers, the president called and told him to say that Mr. Trump “was not knowledgeable of these reimbursements and he wasn’t knowledgeable of” Mr. Cohen’s actions. Mr. Trump himself later told reporters he did not know about it.Mr. Trump’s signature on a $35,000 check to Mr. Cohen, however, appeared to contradict that. Asked later by reporters if that meant Mr. Trump committed a crime while in office, Mr. Cummings said, “Based on looking at the checks and listening to Mr. Cohen, it appears that he did.”Mr. Trump likewise did not report the debt to Mr. Cohen on his annual financial disclosure statement in 2017, but did report paying it off on his 2018 form.Mr. Cohen told lawmakers that Mr. Trump personally monitored negotiations to build a Trump Tower in Moscow, asking about it “at least a half-dozen times” between January and June 2016, even while running for president.“Mr. Trump knew of and directed the Trump Moscow negotiations throughout the campaign and lied about it,” Mr. Cohen said. “He lied about it because he never expected to win. He also lied about it because he stood to make hundreds of millions of dollars on the Moscow real estate project.”In previous testimony before his prosecution, Mr. Cohen lied to Congress by saying negotiations ended in January 2016. Mr. Trump did not explicitly instruct him to lie to Congress, Mr. Cohen said, but through his actions, he “made clear to me” that “he wanted me to lie,” and the president’s lawyers reviewed and even edited Mr. Cohen’s false statement to Congress.Mr. Cohen said he had no “direct evidence that Mr. Trump or his campaign colluded with Russia.” But, he added, “I have my suspicions.”He pointed to the June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in which Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s eldest son; Jared Kushner, his son-in-law; and Paul Manafort, the campaign chairman; met with visiting Russians after being told that they had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton from the Russian government.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Alexandra Leigh Young and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa TobinIn an extraordinary public hearing, Donald Trump’s former fixer — once known for being unflinchingly loyal — became the star witness against him.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Michael Cohen is headed to prison for lying on behalf of Donald Trump. Yesterday, he told Congress he’s done protecting the president. It’s Thursday, February 28. Maggie Haberman, how does this hearing actually begin on Wednesday morning?maggie habermanThe hearing began in very dramatic fashion with Elijah Cummings, who chairs the committee, a Democrat, holding the gavel. Michael Cohen walking in through this crush of photographers and reporters, trailed by Lanny Davis, his attorney and sometimes spokesman, trailed by another of his attorneys, not by any member of his family, who I believe he was worried about attending this hearing. He sat down. His face was wan. His eyes were puffy. He looked exhausted, and defeated, and beaten down. And you could hear a pin drop as he sat down.archived recording (elijah cummings)The committee will come to order.maggie habermanSo Cummings out of the gate —archived recording (elijah cummings)I now recognize myself for five minutes to give an opening statement.maggie haberman— addressed the issue of Michael Cohen’s credibility.archived recording (elijah cummings)He admitted to lying about his actions to protect the president. Some will certainly ask, if Mr. Cohen was lying then, why should we believe him now?archived recordingGood question.archived recording (elijah cummings)This is a legitimate question.maggie habermanIt was very clear that Republicans were going to go right at Cohen, accusing him of being a liar, somebody who has admitted to lying, including admitting to lying to Congress when he gave testimony before them in 2017. So Cummings was hoping to put that to bed at the outset.archived recording (elijah cummings)This is an important factor we need to weigh. But we must weigh it, and we must hear from him.michael barbaroAnd Maggie, I found it fascinating what Cummings did at the close of this opening statement. He delivers this message straight to Cohen.archived recording (elijah cummings)Martin Luther King, Mr. Cohen, said some words that I leave with you today before you testify. He said, faith is taking the first step, even when you can’t see the whole staircase. There comes a time when silence becomes betrayal. Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that truly matter. In the end, he says, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.maggie habermanAnd with that quote, he’s trying to set up Michael Cohen’s testimony — why he’s being truthful, that what he said before is a lie, and what he is saying now is the truth. And this was important for him to set this out as a way forward as the hearing began.archived recording (elijah cummings)Raise your right hand. Do you swear or affirm that the testimony that you are about to give is the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God? Let the record show that the witness answered in the affirmative. And thank you, and you may be seated.maggie habermanSo then Michael Cohen begins his opening statement. And it was long.archived recording (michael cohen)I hope my appearance here today, my guilty plea and my work with law enforcement agencies are steps along a path of redemption that will restore faith in me and help this country understand our president better.maggie habermanAnd he began again by apologizing for lying to Congress.archived recording (michael cohen)I am here under oath to correct the record, to answer the committee’s questions truthfully and to offer the American people what I know about President Trump.maggie habermanAnd then he turned to Donald Trump.archived recording (michael cohen)I am ashamed that I chose to take part in concealing Mr. Trump’s illicit acts rather than listening to my own conscience. I am ashamed because I know what Mr. Trump is.maggie habermanAnd he depicted Donald Trump as a unsavory, unethical, immoral character.archived recording (michael cohen)Mr. Trump is a racist. The country has seen Mr. Trump court white supremacists and bigots. You have heard him call poorer countries [expletive]. In private, he is even worse. He once asked me if I can name a country run by a black person that wasn’t a [expletive]. This was when Barack Obama was president of the United States. And while we were once driving through a struggling neighborhood in Chicago, he commented that only black people could live that way. And he told me that black people would never vote for him because they were too stupid.maggie habermanSomebody who told him from the Oval Office, in an Oval Office meeting, that he would be sending him a reimbursement for hush money payments.archived recording (michael cohen)Trump is a con man. He asked me to pay off an adult film star with whom he had an affair and to lie about it to his wife, which I did. And lying to the first lady is one of my biggest regrets.maggie habermanHe portrayed Donald Trump as a cheat.archived recording (michael cohen)And it should come as no surprise that one of my more common responsibilities was that Mr. Trump directed me to call business owners, many of whom are small businesses, that were owed money for their services, and told them that no payment or a reduced payment would be coming. When I told Mr. Trump of my success, he actually reveled in it.maggie habermanAs a schemer, who would inflate his net worth or devalue it, depending on what was useful for him at various points.archived recording (michael cohen)It was my experience that Mr. Trump inflated his total assets when it served his purposes, such as trying to be listed amongst the wealthiest people in Forbes, and deflated his assets to reduce his real estate taxes.maggie habermanAt one point, Michael Cohen told a very detailed story of Donald Trump’s relationship to the Vietnam War. Remember that Donald Trump has said that he had a deferment from the draft because he had, quote, unquote, bone spurs.archived recording (michael cohen)But when I asked for medical records, he gave me none, and said that there was no surgery. He told me not to answer the specific questions by reporters, but rather, offer simply the fact that he received a medical deferment. He finished the conversation with the following comment: “Do you think I’m stupid? I’m not going to Vietnam.”maggie habermanAnd at that moment, Michael Cohen looked directly into the camera.archived recording (michael cohen)And I find it ironic, Mr. President, that you are in Vietnam right now.michael barbaroRight.maggie habermanIt was damning stuff.archived recording (michael cohen)A lot of people have asked me about whether Mr. Trump knew about the release of the hacked documents, the Democratic National Committee emails, ahead of time. And the answer is yes. In July of 2016, days before the Democratic Convention, I was in Mr. Trump’s office when his secretary announced that Roger Stone was on the phone. Mr. Trump put Mr. Stone on the speakerphone. Mr. Stone told Mr. Trump that he had just gotten off the phone with Julian Assange, and that Mr. Assange told Mr. Stone that within a couple of days there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Mr. Trump responded by stating to the effect, wouldn’t that be great.michael barbaroAnd then he brings up, of course, the now-infamous Moscow project.maggie habermanRight.archived recording (michael cohen)I lied to Congress when Mr. Trump stopped negotiating the Moscow tower project in Russia. I stated that we stopped negotiating in January of 2016. That was false. Our negotiations continued for months later during the campaign.maggie habermanHe says that there were, you know, a handful of these conversations that went on into 2016, when it was clear that Donald Trump was going to be the Republican nominee.archived recording (michael cohen)Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates. In conversations we had during the campaign, at the same time I was actively negotiating in Russia for him, he would look me in the eye and tell me, “There’s no Russian business,” and then go on to lie to the American people by saying the same thing. In his way, he was telling me to lie. So to be clear, Mr. Trump knew of and directed the Trump Moscow negotiations throughout the campaign and lied about it.michael barbaroCohen’s almost describing, in this moment, a code, where, if Trump is saying to him, there is no Russia project, it’s almost like saying, there’s no Russia project, right? You’re never going to say there’s a Russia project. It’s like he’s trying to explain a foreign language in which Donald Trump is communicating to him, you should probably lie about this, without having to say it.maggie habermanThat’s exactly right. And he said that in his testimony, made very clear that this is how Donald Trump talks. He sort of knows where the line is, and he doesn’t speak overtly. It is what former federal prosecutors have described as mob speak, the style that mafia bosses speak in to avoid crossing a legal line. And while Michael Cohen did not explicitly say that part, he did say that Donald Trump spoke in a code and that Michael Cohen understood that code.archived recording (michael cohen)He doesn’t give you questions. He doesn’t give you orders. He speaks in a code. And I understand the code, because I’ve been around him for a decade.michael barbaroMaggie, did it come as a surprise to you to hear Michael Cohen saying any of this? You’ve known both of these men for years. And you’ve known them as a unit. What was it like to hear Cohen saying these things about Donald Trump?maggie habermanEven knowing that this was coming, it was mind-blowing hearing Michael Cohen saying this in public. No one who has worked for Trump in recent years has gone on the record to say things like this. And it was staggering. And it was so at odds with the portrait of fealty that Michael Cohen had presented with reporters, with everyone, toward Donald Trump over a decade.michael barbaroMm-hmm.maggie habermanAnd remember, Donald Trump creates an eagerness in people around him to get something of a head pat from him, to get an encouragement, to get an attaboy. Cohen got very skilled at trying for that attaboy.michael barbaroAnd seemed to be kind of addicted to it.maggie habermanAnd seemed to be addicted to it, seemed to revel in it, clearly reveled in his proximity.archived recording (michael cohen)Over the past year or so, I have done some real soul-searching. And I see now that my ambition and the intoxication of Trump power had much to do with the bad decisions, in part, that I made.maggie habermanHe was involved in taking care of messes that Donald Trump wanted taken care of. He was willing to do those things. One of them was payoffs to women. And the notion that somebody who was so closely involved in that would be willing to discuss it publicly, not just behind closed doors with investigators, not just as prosecutors were bearing down on him, but freely, in public, in a hearing, under oath, was just breathtaking.michael barbaroThere’s a moment where Cohen says to the members of the committee —archived recording (michael cohen)The last time I appeared before Congress, I came to protect Mr. Trump. Today —michael barbaroToday, I’m here to tell you the truth —archived recording (michael cohen)I am here to tell the truth about Mr. Trump.michael barbaro— about Mr. Trump. As if to say, the spell has been broken. I’m out of that world now. And I kind of wonder if that’s really possible, but also how it happened.maggie habermanWell, I think it is really possible, because I think their break has been so incredibly clean, given what has happened to Michael Cohen. Remember, when the F.B.I. raided his hotel and apartment and office in April of 2018, he was still standing by Trump. That clearly has changed. We saw Republicans argue that the reason that changed for Michael Cohen was because he was facing charges of his own. And the president has certainly suggested that. Cohen has been utterly stripped of everything that he valued, his business, his law license. He has been humiliated publicly. He has been abandoned by a lot of friends, and by the president, and by the president’s circle. And so I do think that it is certainly a real split. I think that people are going to have to assess, looking at his testimony, whether they think it’s a real conversion, but it’s definitely a real break.archived recording (michael cohen)I am not a perfect man. I have done things I am not proud of. And I will live with the consequences of my actions for the rest of my life. But today, I get to decide the example that I set for my children and how I attempt to change how history will remember me. I may not be able to change the past, but I can do right by the American people here today. And I thank you for your attention. And I’m happy to answer the committee’s questions.archived recording (elijah cummings)Thank you very much, Mr. Cohen. I now recognize myself.michael barbaroSo then the questions begin from the committee members.maggie habermanRight.archived recording (elijah cummings)You said you brought some checks, is that right?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, sir.maggie habermanAnd first we have Cummings asking Cohen to elaborate on the details of these reimbursement checks that he got, that he brought with him.archived recording (elijah cummings)So let me make sure I understand. Donald Trump wrote you a check out of his personal account while he was serving as president of the United States of America to reimburse you for hush money payments to Ms. Clifford, is that what you are telling the American people today?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, Mr. Chairman.maggie habermanAnd it was among the more dramatic moments that we saw. Because Cummings is getting to the fact that the sitting president was part of this scheme that was, at minimum, sleazy and illicit, and at maximum could have some criminal exposure. And they were leaving nothing to doubt as to what Cohen was saying took place.archived recording (elijah cummings)Is there any doubt in your mind that President Trump knew exactly what he was paying for?archived recording (michael cohen)There is no doubt in my mind. And I truly believe there is no doubt in the minds of the people of the United States of America.archived recording (elijah cummings)With that I’ll yield to —maggie habermanJim Jordan, another ally of the president, quoted something that Michael Cohen once said to a reporter from The Daily Beast.archived recording (jim jordan)“I will make sure that you and I meet one day while we’re in the courthouse and I will take you for every penny you still don’t have.”maggie habermanAnd this has now become a famous anecdote, where he threatened a reporter who was pursuing a story about an old court claim from the divorce filing between Ivana Trump and Donald Trump, where she had alleged marital rape. And Cohen said —archived recording (jim jordan)“And I will come after your Daily Beast and everybody else that you possibly know. So I’m warning you — ”maggie haberman“So I’m warning you, tread very f-ing lightly” — it wasn’t f-ing.archived recording (jim jordan)“Because what I’m going to do to you is going to be f-ing disgusting, you understand me?”maggie habermanAnd he was then asked by Jim Jordan, “Mr. Cohen, who said that?”archived recording (jim jordan)Mr. Cohen, who said that?archived recording (michael cohen)I did.maggie habermanAnd it’s an incident that I think he would say that he really was doing for Trump and not for himself. But it was a way to sully his character and create a portrait of thuggishness.archived recording (jim jordan)And did you say that, Mr. Cohen, was that statement that I just read that you admitted to saying, did you do that to protect Donald Trump?archived recording (michael cohen)I did it to protect Mr. Trump, Donald Trump, Jr., Ivanka Trump and Eric Trump.michael barbaroBut I wonder, who does it look worse for, the person who did it, or the person on whose behalf it was done?maggie habermanRight. I understand that Jim Jordan is trying to muddy Michael Cohen with that. But I think for most people, they are going to look at that, and especially after the president takes to Twitter and suggests that people ought to be looking into Michael Cohen’s family, I think most people are still going to see that as looking worse for Trump, because Michael Cohen was doing this as Trump’s lawyer.michael barbaroSo while Republicans are largely avoiding talking about the president at all costs in this hearing, in focusing on sullying Cohen’s character and reputation, they may be actually sullying President Trump’s.maggie habermanCorrect. They were essentially trying to peel Cohen off from Trump. And what became clear as their efforts went on throughout the hearing is that that is impossible to do. When you have had somebody serve as a lawyer for Donald Trump, so identified with him publicly over 10 years, you can’t take a shot at Cohen and not end up having it ricochet onto Trump too.archived recordingSo we’ve established that you lie on your taxes, you lie to banks, and you have been convicted of lying to Congress. It seems to me that there’s not much that you won’t lie about when you stand to gain from it.michael barbaroAnd where do the questions go from here?maggie habermanSo —archived recordingEverything’s been made of your lies in the past. I’m concerned about your lies today.maggie habermanAfter that it became a, you know —archived recordingBut there’s no truth with you whatsoever.maggie haberman— one by one, down the line, Republicans suggesting that Michael Cohen was —archived recordingLiar, liar, pants on fire.maggie habermanReally in it for the fame.archived recordingIs your appearance here today motivated by your desire to remain in the spotlight for your personal benefit?archived recording (michael cohen)No, ma’am.maggie habermanOr he was really in it for the money. They asked him —archived recordingIs there a book deal coming or anything like that?archived recording (michael cohen)I have no book deal right now.maggie habermanOne after the other about prospective book deals or movie deals.archived recordingIsn’t it true you tried to sell a book about your time with President Trump, entitled “Trump Revolution: From the Tower to the White House, Understanding Donald J. Trump“?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, that happened —maggie habermanOr had he pitched a book of his own?michael barbaroAnd what did he say?maggie habermanHe said yes.archived recording (michael cohen)I have been contacted by many, including for television, a movie. If you want to tell me who you would like to play you, I’m more than happy to write the name down.michael barbaroAnd what about the Democrats?archived recording (elijah cummings)Mr. Raskin.archived recording (jamie raskin)Mr. Cohen, thank you for your composure today. Our colleagues are not upset because you lied to Congress for the president. They’re upset because you’ve stopped lying to Congress for the president.maggie habermanThe Democrats tried to keep it really mostly on Trump and the things that Michael Cohen did for Trump.archived recordingAnd nothing at the Trump Organization was ever done unless it was run through President Donald Trump, correct?archived recording (michael cohen)That’s 100 percent certain.archived recordingO.K.maggie habermanHe described, and it was really interesting, he described everybody as being solely devoted to protecting the brand and reputation of one man, Donald Trump. He said that nothing happened at the company unless Donald Trump was aware of it or signed off on it. He argued that Trump was a demanding and exacting and punishing boss. He described the entire effort as being about maximizing the gold-plated version of Donald Trump that we have all become very familiar with.archived recordingThere’s a recurring refrain in your testimony that says, and yet, I continued to work for him. But at some point you changed. What was the breaking point at which you decided to start telling the truth?archived recording (michael cohen)There are several factors — Helsinki, Charlottesville.maggie habermanHe went on this litany of moments that he said disgusted him. There were the president’s comments after Charlottesville, that it was, you know, various instance of discourteous behavior by the president, of untoward behavior toward citizens.archived recording (michael cohen)Watching the daily destruction of our civility to one another, putting up silly things like this.archived recordingOh, that’s silly.archived recording (michael cohen)Really unbecoming of Congress.maggie habermanHe clearly got angry. And then he sort of turned it back on Republicans and said to them, essentially —archived recording (michael cohen)It’s that sort of behavior that I’m responsible for. I’m responsible for your silliness. Because I did the same thing that you’re doing now, for 10 years. I protected Mr. Trump for 10 years.maggie habermanYou are what I was. You are all blindly following him. And there is a real risk to doing that, because you could end up like me someday.archived recording (michael cohen)And I can only warn people, the more people that follow Mr. Trump, as I did blindly, are going to suffer the same consequences that I’m suffering.maggie habermanIt was a gripping and captivating moment.michael barbaroRight, it was a sort of surprising level of self-awareness, and I guess also self-loathing too.maggie habermanIt was both. It was self-effacing. It was clearly uncomfortable. It was acknowledging that he is a deeply imperfect person who did imperfect things that he is not proud of, and he said a version of that earlier in the hearing. But it was really striking, because this is a comment that Republicans who opposed Donald Trump, and they’re not very many of them who are that vocal anymore, but that they have said repeatedly that the Republican Party has become a cult of personality, or just a cult. And that people just blindly follow along with what Donald Trump wants, whether it is wise or not, whether it is safe or not, and whether he is telling the truth or not. And that is what Cohen was getting at.archived recordingWhat do you want your children to know?archived recording (michael cohen)That I’m sorry for everything. And I’m sorry for the pain that I’ve caused them. And um — I wish I could go back in time.archived recordingThank you, I yield back.archived recording (elijah cummings)The gentlelady’s time has expired.michael barbaroMaggie, I wonder if you feel like you understand what’s motivating Michael Cohen throughout this hours-long hearing, to say what he’s saying, to concede what he’s conceding, to kind of humble himself the way he did. He’s been convicted of a crime. He’s headed to prison. He has been disbarred. What exactly is animating him at this point?maggie habermanI think a number of things are animating him. But I think among them is that he doesn’t want to be the leper of this story forever. He said months ago that he does not want to be the villain in the Trump story. And I think that’s how he feels. I think that he does not want to be remembered as this footnote in history. I think he’s going to prison. And I think he doesn’t have a whole lot left to lose. And I think that he would like to try to make people remember other things about him and tell a more nuanced tale.michael barbaroAnd so, what did this hearing, in your mind, achieve? How will this hearing be remembered in this larger story?maggie habermanI think this hearing is either going to be, on its own, just a breathtaking historical moment, the likes of which I don’t know if we’ll ever see again. But it was pretty striking to see. Or it is going to be the initial phases of a much broader, deeper governmental investigation by House Democrats into the Trump presidency, not just his own personal activities, but the activities of his government. And allowing Michael Cohen to have a setting where he talks about these things, and where he can be questioned, and where he is a key starting witness could be the first step in paving the way toward an impeachment process, if that is where Democrats go. If that ends up leading to something bigger, then Democrats will feel as if this was a key foundation for it. But it’s too early to say, I think.archived recording (michael cohen)I have some closing remarks I would like to say myself. Is this an appropriate time?archived recording (elijah cummings)You can do it now.archived recording (michael cohen)Thank you.michael barbaroMaggie, how does this one of hearing finally come to an end?maggie habermanSeven and a half hours after Michael Cohen first entered this room, sitting pretty patiently through all of these questions, not losing his temper, he was given an opportunity to speak not just to the committee members, but to the president.archived recording (michael cohen)In closing, I’d like to say directly to the president, we honor our veterans, even in the rain. You tell the truth, even when it doesn’t aggrandize you.maggie habermanAnd he used that opportunity to send a message to his former boss, saying, you don’t need to be this person.archived recording (michael cohen)You take responsibility for your own dirty deeds. You don’t use your power of your bully pulpit to destroy the credibility of those who speak out against you. You don’t separate families from one another or demonize those looking to America for a better life. You don’t vilify people based on the God they pray to. And you don’t cuddle up to our adversaries at the expense of our allies.maggie habermanAnd what he was saying to the president, you and I both know who you are, and he was saying to the members of the committee, you should believe me when I say that I understand this man.archived recording (michael cohen)So to those who support the president and his rhetoric, as I once did, I pray the country doesn’t make the same mistakes that I have made or pay the heavy price that my family and I are paying. And I thank you very much for this additional time, Chairman.archived recording (elijah cummings)Thank you very much.maggie habermanAnd when Michael Cohen was done, Elijah Cummings closed with this note of grace toward Michael Cohen.archived recording (elijah cummings)So you wonder whether people believe you. I don’t know. I don’t know whether they believe you. But the fact is that you’ve come, you have your head down. And this has got to be one of the hardest things that you could do.maggie habermanThat was the moment when Michael Cohen started crying. And he really hadn’t done that. He was clearly weeping.archived recording (elijah cummings)I know that you face a lot. I know that you are worried about your family. But this is a part of your destiny.maggie habermanAnd Cummings basically told Cohen, you are doing what you should be doing. You are heading toward the light in this moment.archived recording (elijah cummings)And hopefully, this portion of your destiny will lead to a better — a better Michael Cohen, a better Donald Trump, a better United States of America and a better world.michael barbaroMaggie, thank you very, very much. We appreciate it.maggie habermanMichael, thanks for having me.archived recording (elijah cummings)And we have got to get back to normal. With that, this meeting is adjourned. [MUSIC PLAYING]michael barbaroWe’ll be right back. Here’s what else you need to know today. On Wednesday, Pakistan said it had shot down two Indian fighter jets and captured a pilot from one of them in the latest escalation of hostilities between the two countries. The attack is heightening fears that the decades-old animosities between India and Pakistan could spiral into war. The latest episode began on February 14th, when jihadis operating out of Pakistan killed 40 Indian soldiers, prompting airstrikes from India, and now, a military response from Pakistan.archived recording[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] Bomb blast victims in [INAUDIBLE].michael barbaroIn a speech on Wednesday, the prime minister of Pakistan urged restraint, citing the two countries’ arsenals of nuclear weapons, saying quote, “All big wars have been due to miscalculation. My question to India is that given the weapons we have, can we afford miscalculation?”archived recording[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]michael barbaroAnd in North Carolina on Wednesday, a campaign operative at the center of allegations of election fraud, McCrae Dallas, was arrested and indicted over his handling of absentee ballots in 2016 and 2018. Dallas, who collected absentee ballots for Republican congressional candidate Mark Harris last fall, was charged with obstruction of justice and possession of absentee ballots. As a result of Dallas’ conduct, North Carolina will hold a new election for the 9th congressional district. Harris, who hired Dallas, has withdrawn from that race. [MUSIC PLAYING] That’s it for The Daily. I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.The president has denied knowing about the meeting. But Mr. Cohen cast doubt on that, saying he was in Mr. Trump’s office one day in June 2016 when Donald Jr. came in, went behind his father’s desk and, speaking in a low voice, said, “The meeting is all set.” The candidate, he said, replied, “O.K., good. Let me know.”Mr. Cohen said that might have referred to the Russia meeting because “Mr. Trump had frequently told me and others that his son Don Jr. had the worst judgment of anyone in the world” and that his son “would never set up any meeting of significance alone and certainly not without checking with his father.”Mr. Cohen also recalled being in Mr. Trump’s office shortly before the Democratic National Convention in 2016 when Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime adviser, called. Mr. Trump put him on speaker phone and Mr. Stone reported that he had just spoken with Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, who said “that within a couple of days, there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign.”In an interview last month with The New York Times, Mr. Trump denied speaking with Mr. Stone about WikiLeaks and the emails. Mr. Assange’s lawyer issued a statement on Wednesday disputing Mr. Cohen’s account.The hearing left some questions unanswered, and Democrats pledged to press for more details about the Russia investigation when Mr. Cohen appears Thursday for a private interview with the House Intelligence Committee.Mr. Cohen offered some tantalizing hints of more to come. Asked about his last conversation with Mr. Trump, he said he could not answer because it is “being investigated right now” by federal prosecutors in New York. Asked if he knew of other wrongdoing or crimes by Mr. Trump, he said: “Yes. And again, those are part of the investigation.”More generally, Mr. Cohen compared Mr. Trump to a mobster who inflated his net worth to the public while understating it to tax authorities, rigged an art auction using his charitable foundation and threatened those who got in his way.Mr. Cohen estimated that Mr. Trump had asked him to threaten someone perhaps 500 times over 10 years, from berating a “nasty reporter” to warning of lawsuits. He provided letters he wrote during the campaign at Mr. Trump’s direction to the president’s high school, colleges and the College Board threatening civil and criminal action if they released his grades or SAT scores.Mr. Trump did not run for president to make the country great, according to Mr. Cohen, instead calling his campaign the “greatest infomercial in political history” for his business. “He never expected to win the primary,” he said. “He never expected to win the general election. The campaign, for him, was always a marketing opportunity.” But now, Mr. Cohen said, he fears that if Mr. Trump loses re-election next year, “there will never be a peaceful transition of power.”The former lawyer also described racist comments. Mr. Trump asked if he could “name a country run by a black person that wasn’t a shithole” and, while driving through a struggling neighborhood, remarked that only African-Americans could live that way. “He told me that black people would never vote for him because they were too stupid,” Mr. Cohen said.Except for one Trump skeptic, Republicans did not ask about the president’s conduct or, for that matter, offer any sustained defense of Mr. Trump. Instead, they pressed their argument that Mr. Cohen was not to be believed. They argued that he lied even in signing a committee form that did not disclose work for a bank in Kazakhstan.“You’re a pathological liar,” charged Representative Paul Gosar of Arizona.“Are you referring to me or the president?” Mr. Cohen retorted.Mr. Cohen suggested Republicans were falling into the trap he did, trading their honor for a president who did not deserve it.“I did the same thing that you’re doing now for 10 years,” he said. “I protected Mr. Trump for 10 years.”Kenneth P. Vogel contributed reporting.Follow Peter Baker and Nicholas Fandos on Twitter: @peterbakernyt @npfandosAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Russ Buettner and Susanne CraigIn 2013, months before Donald J. Trump approached Deutsche Bank seeking a loan to buy the Buffalo Bills, a mysterious new asset appeared on his financial statement.It wasn’t a new hotel, office tower or golf resort. It was “brand value” — $4 billion of it, by Mr. Trump’s account.The Deutsche Bank episode, along with Mr. Trump’s stunning claim of newfound wealth, emerged on Wednesday as his former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, testified before the House Oversight Committee. Mr. Cohen provided three years of financial statements. “I believe these numbers are inflated,” he commented dryly.Without ever saying so, Mr. Cohen was tracing the lifelong myth-making practice that Mr. Trump ultimately rode to the White House — magically inflating the value of his business empire to create and nurture the brand of Donald J. Trump, self-made billionaire.That myth-making began when, as a young man, Mr. Trump falsely claimed to own the real estate empire still owned by his father, the legendary builder Fred C. Trump. It continued through the flashy opening sequence of “The Apprentice” and on to the campaign trail in 2015.The first public record of Mr. Trump’s financial exaggerations came in 1976, when Mr. Trump, just few years out of college, boasted to a Times reporter that he was already worth “more than $200 million.”To support this fantastical assertion, Mr. Trump laid claim to various buildings and projects throughout the New York City area. In truth, his father owned it all.Years later, it emerged in a public filing that his 1976 taxable income had been only $24,594.In the 1980s, instead of appropriating his father’s wealth as his own, he was quick to diminish his father’s considerable achievements. He consistently cast Fred Trump as a behind-the-scenes cheerleader who ran a modest collection of outer-borough apartment buildings. Mr. Trump never mentioned his father’s considerable wealth, or the financial support that made his gilded life possible. He claimed to have gotten only a $1 million loan from his father — and to have repaid it, with interest.“He was a solid guy and a bright guy and I learned a lot from my father. In terms of support, that was the No. 1 thing I got from my father,” he told the late-night host David Letterman in 1987, oddly referring to his father, who did not die until 1999, in the past tense.Last year, a New York Times investigation found that contrary to his claims about a $1 million loan, Mr. Trump had received from his parents the equivalent today of at least $413 million. That figure was increased by legally dubious tax schemes, some of which relied on a reverse manipulation — lowballing assets when the tax man came calling. A lawyer for Mr. Trump said all applicable laws had been followed.For years, Mr. Trump has provided unaudited financial statements as evidence of his wealth, both to reporters and to banks when seeking loans. (The deal for the Bills never came to pass.) In a 2007 deposition, he said the values could even fluctuate based on his “feelings,” and compared real estate valuations to political spin.“I’m no different from a politician running for office,” he said. “You always want to put the best foot forward.”The documents that Mr. Cohen presented to Congress show dollar amounts that bounce around more than Mr. Trump’s eclectic signature. In the 2013 statement, for example, the cash and marketable securities category more than doubled, to $346 million, from the year before, even as a note claimed that Mr. Trump had paid off a number of liabilities. That year, his claimed net worth climbed to $8.66 billion, up from $5 billion the year before.Mr. Cohen said he often presented these financial statements to journalists at publications like Forbes to get Mr. Trump on lists of the wealthiest Americans.Last year, Jonathan Greenberg, a former reporter for Forbes, recounted in The Washington Post that back in the 1980s, long before Mr. Cohen entered the picture, Mr. Trump had called him pretending to be John Barron, a supposed spokesman for Donald Trump, to get himself on the magazine’s list of the richest Americans.Behind the scenes, though, when it came time to pay taxes, Mr. Trump was instrumental in depressing the value of his family’s assets.In 1995, for instance, Donald Trump and his three siblings claimed in confidential tax documents obtained by The Times that properties owned by their father, including 25 apartment complexes, were worth just $41.4 million. They claimed that two rental buildings at Trump Village, in Coney Island, were worth negative $5.9 million. The maneuver spared the family from paying millions of dollars in gift and estate taxes. The actual value of these properties was revealed in 2004 when banks valued them at almost $900 million.Tax experts told The Times that those types of maneuvers were legally questionable.Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the New York Democrat, asked Mr. Cohen about the tax schemes described in the Times investigation during the hearing on Wednesday. Mr. Cohen responded that those actions took place before he arrived at the Trump Organization.Republicans members of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, along with the White House, repeatedly sought to discredit Mr. Cohen on Wednesday, pointing to his pleading guilty to financial crimes and lying to Congress.Mr. Trump’s true wealth and entanglements would be far better understood had he followed the decades-old tradition of presidential candidates’ releasing their tax returns.Mr. Cohen was asked to address the veracity of Mr. Trump’s claim that he could not release the returns because he was under audit. Mr. Cohen said the opposite was true: Mr. Trump was concerned that releasing his returns would lead to an audit, and possible penalties.“What he didn’t want was to have an entire group of think tanks that are tax experts run through his tax return and start ripping it to pieces and then he’ll end up in an audit,” Mr. Cohen said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — The Florida Bar said on Wednesday that it had opened an investigation to determine whether Representative Matt Gaetz, a Republican from the state, violated its conduct rules when he threatened to reveal what he said were extramarital affairs by a pending congressional witness, Michael D. Cohen.Mr. Gaetz’s threat came on Twitter on Tuesday afternoon, as Mr. Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer and longtime fixer, was preparing for explosive public remarks before the House Oversight and Reform Committee in which he ultimately implicated his former boss in federal crimes and other unsavory acts. Mr. Gaetz, 36, is one of Mr. Trump’s most outspoken allies on Capitol Hill, and his public statements have frequently solicited criticism from Democrats.“Hey @MichaelCohen212 — Do your wife & father-in-law know about your girlfriends? Maybe tonight would be a good time for that chat. I wonder if she’ll remain faithful when you’re in prison. She’s about to learn a lot,” Mr. Gaetz wrote in his tweet, which he deleted and apologized for.Democrats said Mr. Gaetz’s remarks might amount to witness intimidation, and several lawmakers called for his comments to be investigated by the House Ethics Committee. Francine Andía Walker, a spokeswoman for the Florida Bar, said on Wednesday that the organization had opened its investigation after learning of the comments but could not offer further details. The Florida Bar licenses lawyers to practice in the state.“Any time the words or actions of a Florida lawyer result in complaints, the Florida Bar will fully investigate those complaints through its established grievance process to determine if bar rules have been violated,” she said. “It handles thousands of complaints each year, filing charges and pursuing discipline against lawyers whose professional conduct is not in keeping with the rules.”Mr. Gaetz said on Tuesday that he was merely raising questions about the “veracity and character” of a congressional witness — not trying to intimidate him.On Wednesday, he said in a text message that he had not been contacted by the Florida Bar but signaled that he was not concerned.“It seems that the Florida Bar, by its rules, is required to investigate even the most frivolous complaints,” he said.As a member of Congress, Mr. Gaetz is protected under the Constitution’s “speech or debate” clause, which gives lawmakers wide latitude to speak while Congress is in session. It has been cited frequently in the past as a protection against punishment.Under federal law, it is a crime to threaten or intimidate an individual to influence, delay or otherwise prevent that person from testifying in official proceedings, including a congressional hearing. But it is not clear whether a remark like Mr. Gaetz’s — made ambiguously on social media — would qualify. Nor is it clear whether the congressional speech and debate protections would give him legal cover.Mr. Gaetz deleted his tweet late Tuesday after Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California warned him that comments like his could harm the Oversight Committee’s ability to “obtain the truthful and complete information necessary.”“I should have chosen words that better showed my intent,” he wrote, replying to Ms. Pelosi. “I’m sorry.”Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter Baker and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — On a busy day at the White House, President Trump hosted senators to talk about tax cuts, accused a Democratic congresswoman of distorting his condolence call to a soldier’s widow and suffered another court defeat for his travel ban targeting Muslim countries.And at some point on Wednesday, Oct. 18, 2017, Mr. Trump took the time to sign a $35,000 check to his lawyer, who had made hush payments to prevent alleged sexual misconduct from being exposed before the 2016 presidential election. It was one of 11 occasions that Mr. Trump or his trust cut such checks, six of which were provided this week to The New York Times.At the heart of last week’s congressional testimony by Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer, was the sensational accusation that the sitting president of the United States financed an illegal cover-up from inside the White House. The dates on the newly available checks shed light on the parallel lives Mr. Trump was living by this account — at once managing affairs of state while quietly paying the price of keeping his personal secrets out of the public eye.The president hosted a foreign leader in the Oval Office, then wrote a check. He haggled over legislation, then wrote a check. He traveled abroad, then wrote a check. On the same day he reportedly pressured the F.B.I. director to drop an investigation into a former aide, the president’s trust issued a check to Mr. Cohen in furtherance of what federal prosecutors have called a criminal scheme to violate campaign finance laws at the direction of Mr. Trump.The White House on Tuesday referred questions about the payments to Mr. Trump’s private lawyers. Jay Sekulow, one of the president’s personal lawyers, had no comment and a lawyer for the Trump Organization declined to discuss the matter.Other defenders of the president said that the checks proved only that Mr. Trump paid his personal lawyer, not that he necessarily knew the money was meant to reimburse Mr. Cohen for hush payments to Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film actress who has claimed to have had an extramarital affair with Mr. Trump. The president has denied the affair.“I think it’s news we knew about,” Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, the ranking Republican on the House Oversight and Reform Committee and one of the president’s staunchest allies, told reporters during a break in last week’s hearing. The payments, he said, could have been for services based on a retainer, although Mr. Cohen said there was no such retainer.The president’s critics said that the checks, mostly with Mr. Trump’s distinctive up-and-down signature, in fact bolster the prosecutors’ conclusion about his involvement in the scheme. Mr. Cohen has pleaded guilty to violating campaign finance laws as well as lying to Congress and faces three years in prison starting in the spring.“The $35,000 is an indication of the quality of that evidence, and it both shows the extent of Trump’s leading role and now leaves little doubt that he faces criminal prosecution after he leaves office for the same offenses for which Cohen will serve time,” said Robert F. Bauer, a law professor at New York University and former White House counsel for President Barack Obama.Indeed, some people close to Mr. Trump have privately predicted that he will ultimately choose to seek a second term in part because of his legal exposure if he is not president. While there is no legal consensus on the matter, Justice Department policy says that a president cannot be indicted while in office.The checks to Mr. Cohen were sent on a more or less monthly basis throughout 2017, Mr. Trump’s first year in office. Mr. Cohen provided two checks to the House committee last week and his lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, provided the additional six checks to The Times this week. Mr. Cohen’s team said it was searching for three others.Of the eight checks now available, seven were for $35,000 and another was for $70,000 to cover two months’ worth of payments. Six were signed by Mr. Trump himself while he was president and the other two were signed by his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., and his company’s chief financial officer, Allen Weisselberg.Altogether, Mr. Trump or his trust paid Mr. Cohen $420,000, according to federal prosecutors. Of that, $130,000 was to reimburse payments made shortly before the 2016 election to Ms. Daniels, whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford, so she would not tell her story. Another $50,000 was for Mr. Cohen’s effort to manipulate online polls to inflate Mr. Trump’s reputation as a businessman.That $180,000 was then “grossed up” with another $180,000 to offset taxes that Mr. Cohen would have to pay on the original money since it was being treated as income. Another $60,000 was added as a “bonus,” prosecutors have said.Mr. Trump has offered conflicting accounts about the matter. Speaking to reporters on Air Force One in April 2018, he said he did not know about the payment to Ms. Daniels. But a month later, his lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, hoping to refute the suggestion that it might be a campaign finance violation, told Fox News and The Times that the president had in fact reimbursed Mr. Cohen for the payment.Citing Mr. Cohen and other evidence, prosecutors from the Southern District of New York said in court papers that Mr. Trump directed the scheme, essentially making him an unindicted co-conspirator.“We’re talking about a felony committed by the president of the United States where there’s no dispute,” said Mr. Davis, the lawyer for Mr. Cohen.People close to Mr. Trump have suggested that he may not have been aware of what Mr. Cohen was doing in real time, despite an audiotape that Mr. Cohen recorded of him discussing with Mr. Trump payments that The National Enquirer had made to a second woman who claimed to have had an affair with the candidate.A person close to Mr. Trump said that he may have believed the checks were payment for general legal fees, but may not have known why. The president’s associates stressed that the payment to Mr. Cohen was one of several he made privately each month.Mr. Davis scoffed at that. “You denied the Stormy Daniels affair and that was a lie,” he said. “Now you’re denying that you knew about this payoff and reimbursement that Giuliani says you knew about. So your claim of ignorance doesn’t have any credibility.”One person who without question was involved, according to multiple people briefed on the events, was Mr. Weisselberg, the Trump Organization chief financial officer. Mr. Cohen told Mr. Weisselberg about the $130,000 wire transfer to Ms. Daniels. Mr. Weisselberg suggested repaying it in installments and told Mr. Cohen to send invoices once a month, according to the people.By Mr. Cohen’s account, the checks began in February 2017, just weeks after Mr. Trump was inaugurated as president. When Mr. Cohen visited the Oval Office for the first time, he said, Mr. Trump raised the issue of the hush payments in the same room that symbolized the United States’ seat of power.“Don’t worry, Michael, your January and February reimbursement checks are coming,” he quoted Mr. Trump telling him. “They were FedExed from New York and it takes a while for that to get through the White House system.”The first check was signed Feb. 14, 2017, for $70,000 to cover both January and February. It was issued by the president’s trust and signed by Mr. Weisselberg and Donald Trump Jr.The payment came at a fraught moment in the president’s early weeks, just a day after he forced his national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, to resign for lying about his contacts with Russia. On the same day the check to Mr. Cohen was signed, Mr. Trump pulled aside James B. Comey, then the F.B.I. director, and suggested “letting Flynn go,” according to a contemporaneous memo by Mr. Comey.The next check, for $35,000, came from the trust on March 17, even as the president hosted Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany in the Oval Office and aides were grappling with a firestorm over unfounded assertions aired by the White House that the British had spied on Mr. Trump when he was a candidate.A check for April has not been located; Mr. Cohen’s records were seized by federal agents. But after the initial payments, Mr. Trump was instructed that he should write Mr. Cohen checks from his personal checking account instead of the trust. It is not clear why he was told this, but in so doing, he removed his son’s name from future checks.On May 23, the president signed a personal check on the same day he was overseas meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel in Jerusalem and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority in Bethlehem, before flying that night to Rome.Checks for June and July have also not been located. The next one, on Aug. 1, came as Mr. Trump invited small business owners to the White House and an aide confirmed that the president had dictated a misleading statement about a 2016 meeting that his campaign team held with Russians.On Sept. 12, Mr. Trump hosted the prime minister of Malaysia even as his press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, was telling reporters that the Justice Department should “certainly look at” prosecuting Mr. Comey. Mr. Trump signed another $35,000 check that day.After the Oct. 18 check came one on Nov. 21, just two days before Thanksgiving when Mr. Trump pardoned a turkey, saying, “I feel so good about myself,” and then defended Roy S. Moore, the Republican Senate candidate in Alabama who had been accused of sexual misconduct with teenage girls. Mr. Trump also spoke by telephone that day with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.The last check made public was signed on Dec. 5, the same day that Mr. Trump called Mr. Netanyahu, Mr. Abbas and Arab leaders to tell them that he had decided to move the American Embassy to Jerusalem.Four months later, F.B.I. agents raided Mr. Cohen’s office and home.Follow Peter Baker and Maggie Haberman on Twitter: @peterbakernyt @maggienyt.videoAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — Federal health officials are not enforcing requirements for Medicaid coverage of abortion in the limited circumstances where it is legal, congressional investigators have found.At least 13 states are flouting a requirement to cover abortion-inducing pills, and one state, South Dakota, has for 25 years failed to provide the required coverage for abortion in cases of rape or incest, the Government Accountability Office, a nonpartisan investigative arm of Congress, said in a report made public this month.The report underlines the wide range of restrictions that states impose on abortion access and Medicaid coverage of it.Trump administration officials, like many of their predecessors, “have not taken any actions to address states’ noncompliance,” the report said.The federal law known as the Hyde Amendment generally prohibits federal funding for abortions. But state Medicaid programs are required to cover an abortion if the pregnancy is a result of rape or incest, or if the life of the pregnant woman would be endangered without an abortion.States are also supposed to cover the pill that induces abortion, Mifeprex, when an abortion is available under Medicaid. But in a survey by the Government Accountability Office, 13 states said they do not cover the drug.“Without such coverage,” the report said, “Medicaid beneficiaries seeking abortions in these states would have to find another way to pay for the drug or undergo a surgical abortion instead.”Federal officials at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services “were not aware that these states did not cover Mifeprex, and thus the agency had not sought to address states’ noncompliance,” the report said.The drug, also known as RU-486, is approved for use through the first 10 weeks of pregnancy and is usually taken in combination with another medicine.The number of abortions in the United States has declined in the last 30 years, the report said, but medication abortions, which involve the use of prescription drugs rather than a surgical procedure, have increased and may now account for one-third of abortions.Representative Diana DeGette, Democrat of Colorado, who requested the investigation, expressed dismay at the findings.“States are supposed to be covering a limited number of abortions under Medicaid, but are not even doing that,” Ms. DeGette said. “A poor woman who has been raped or raped by a relative or whose life might be endangered by carrying a pregnancy cannot afford to go to another state to get these services. That’s why we have Medicaid covering services like this.”South Dakota told the Government Accountability Office that it does not cover abortions in cases of rape or incest. Federal health officials sent a letter to South Dakota in 1994 observing that its Medicaid coverage did not comply with federal law.The federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services is aware that South Dakota “does not cover abortions in cases of rape or incest, as required by federal law, but has not taken any action in 25 years to ensure the state’s compliance,” the report said.“As a result,” it said, “Medicaid beneficiaries in South Dakota do not have Medicaid coverage for abortions in cases of rape or incest.”The findings lead to a paradoxical conclusion: The Trump administration, which is firmly opposed to abortion, may now have to work with states to make sure they provide Medicaid coverage for the surgical procedure and for the abortion pill in certain circumstances.After seeing a draft of the report, the Trump administration said it would urge states to comply because they must operate their Medicaid programs “in accordance with federal laws and guidance.” Neither South Dakota nor the 13 states were in compliance with federal requirements, the administration said.Representative Frank Pallone Jr., Democrat of New Jersey and the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which is responsible for Medicaid, said the administration’s response had been “woefully inadequate.” He asked the top federal Medicaid official, Seema Verma, to explain what steps she was taking to bring states into compliance.Federal law does not explicitly require Medicaid coverage of the prescription drugs used to terminate a pregnancy. But states are generally required to cover the drugs of any companies that agree to give deep discounts to Medicaid through its drug rebate program, and the manufacturer of Mifeprex, Danco Laboratories, is among those companies. So states are supposed to cover the drug when it is used in abortions eligible for federal funding under the Hyde Amendment.The report by the Government Accountability Office found that 28 states cover abortions only when the federal government will help pay for them. Other states use their own funds to provide broader coverage.In 14 states, women must report rape or incest to the police or another government agency before Medicaid will cover an abortion to terminate the resulting pregnancy.Federal officials do not know how many women are receiving abortions under the Medicaid program. Most Medicaid beneficiaries are in managed care plans, but states do not regularly collect information on how many abortions they receive. States are supposed to report abortions in the traditional fee-for-service Medicaid program, but the reports are often inaccurate, the Government Accountability Office said.In its survey, the office identified nearly 5,000 abortions for which states claimed federal funds from 2013 to 2016 — nearly 10 times the number reported to Congress by the federal Medicaid agency. And even the higher number is incomplete, the report said, because some states were unable to provide any information on the number of Medicaid abortions.Advertisement
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders discuss a dramatic hearing in which Mr. Cohen expressed regret for his actions on behalf of the president and was harshly attacked by Republicans. To the Editor:Re “Cohen Says President Told Him to Lie About Hush Money Payments” (nytimes.com, Feb. 27):Whether we believe what Michael Cohen has to say during his testimony, we deserve the opportunity — the simple opportunity — to hear his testimony. Instead, the G.O.P. members of the House Oversight and Reform Committee are constantly ceding their time to Representative Jim Jordan, the bulldog who harasses and intimidates Mr. Cohen instead of spending this valuable time letting the American public hear questions and answers.In a court of law, witnesses cannot be harassed by either side. These lawmakers might do well to keep that in mind.Connie SchiedPortland, Ore.To the Editor:Republicans in Congress appear skeptical of Michael Cohen’s testimony because — oh my gosh — he’s lied in the past. Perhaps they can tell us just which current or former Trump administration or campaign officials, including the president, they would believe?Stephen PolitBelmont, Mass.To the Editor:How times have changed. Two years ago, Michael Cohen was reviled as a liar and a Donald Trump minion who was not to be believed. Now, Congress places Mr. Cohen, a convicted felon, on a pedestal as a credible witness. Andrew KoSan Marino, Calif.To the Editor:What have we learned from these hearings so far? That President Trump may have lost his “fixer,” Michael Cohen, but he has many more “fixers” among the G.O.P. members of Congress.Elaine L. ShuteSurry, Me.To the Editor:Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, called it “laughable” that anyone would believe Michael Cohen, because he is a “convicted liar.” But Mr. Cohen wasn’t convicted of just any lie; he falsely testified to Congress that President Trump stopped negotiating with the Russians in January 2016 about building a Trump Tower in Moscow. That is the same claim the president himself made throughout his campaign, and which he repeated up until the day Mr. Cohen confessed it wasn’t true.It was Mr. Cohen, not Mr. Trump, who first came clean about this lie. And it was Mr. Trump, not Mr. Cohen, who benefited from it.In short, if this lie means that Mr. Cohen is not to be believed, it affects the president’s credibility even more.Robert HelfandSimsbury, Conn.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byFact Check of the DayIn their questioning of Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer, members of the House Oversight and Reform Committee made incorrect or misleading statements.By Linda QiuWhat Was Said“This might be the first time someone convicted of lying to Congress has appeared again so quickly in front of Congress.”— Representative Jim Jordan, Republican of Ohio This carefully worded statement is true, but could give a misleading impression. There is little precedent for someone convicted of the specific crime of lying to Congress to again appear before Congress shortly afterward. But people who were found to have lied to Congress have returned before the body to testify, and lawmakers occasionally hear from convicted criminals.Very few people — six from the 1940s to the 2000s, according to one estimate — have been convicted of lying to Congress. Others were indicted but acquitted (for example, Roger Clemens, the baseball pitcher) or received presidential pardons (like officials in the Reagan administration involved in the Iran-contra affair).Among this small group, at least two have testified to Congress after being charged. Elliott Abrams, the former assistant secretary of state under President Ronald Reagan and current envoy to Venezuela under President Trump, pleaded guilty in 1991 to withholding information from Congress, but testified to Congress this month. Robert McFarlane, Mr. Reagan’s national security adviser, also pleaded guilty in 1988 to withholding information from Congress but testified before the Senate in 2002. Both men were pardoned by President George Bush.Other people who committed crimes other than lying to Congress and have testified before the body include Frank Costello, the mafia boss, in 1951; Joseph Michael Valachi, a mobster, in 1963; and Frank Abagnale, the former con artist and subject of Steven Spielberg’s “Catch Me If You Can,” in 2017.What Was Said“Remember how all this started. The Clinton campaign hired Perkins Coie law firm, who hired Glenn Simpson, who hired a foreigner, Christopher Steele, who put together the fake dossier the F.B.I. used to get a warrant to spy on the Trump campaign.”— Mr. JordanMr. Jordan echoed a falsehood often repeated by Mr. Trump himself: that the investigation into his campaign’s possible links with Russian election interference was prompted by a salacious dossier compiled by Christopher Steele, a former British spy. In fact, the investigation began in July 2016, as The New York Times has reported and Republicans who held the majority vote last year on the House Intelligence Committee have concluded. George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser to Mr. Trump, told an Australian diplomat in May 2016 that the Russians had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton. Australian officials then alerted their American counterparts. The information provided by Mr. Steele did not reach F.B.I. officials who were investigating Mr. Trump’s campaign until mid-September 2016, The New York Times reported in May.What Was Said“How about Mr. Papadopoulos pled guilty, Mr. Manafort convicted, pled guilty to two other charges. Mr. Gates pled guilty, Mr. Flynn pled guilty, Mr. Pinedo pled guilty, Mr. van der Zwaan pled guilty, Mr. Kilimnik indicted on a charge of obstruction of justice, and for two years, you want to talk about an agenda, my friends on the other side of the aisle refuse to bring any of these people up before the committee.”— Representative Stephen F. Lynch, Democrat of Massachusetts Mr. Lynch is correct that none of the Trump associates he listed — Paul Manafort, Rick Gates, Michael T. Flynn, among them — had publicly testified before the House Oversight and Reform Committee when it was under Republican control, but one did appear before the committee in a closed-door session. Mr. Papadopoulos gave private testimony to the House Oversight and Reform Committee as well as the House Judiciary Committee in October.Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email factcheck@nytimes.com. Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu Advertisement
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
AdvertisementSupported byBy Rebecca R. RuizPresident Trump’s former lawyer told Congress on Wednesday that Mr. Trump remained deeply involved in the arrangement to pay hush money to a pornographic film actress, even while in the White House, telling him just a year ago to lie to a journalist about the president’s involvement.Testifying before the House Oversight Committee, the lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, also for the first time publicly implicated the president’s eldest son, Donald Jr., and the chief financial officer of his company, Allen Weisselberg, in the arrangement involving the actress, Stormy Daniels. She had been paid $130,000 before the 2016 election to keep quiet about an alleged affair with Mr. Trump, and Mr. Cohen was reimbursed in 2017 for fronting that money.“He knew about everything,” Mr. Cohen said of Mr. Trump. “Everything had to go through Mr. Trump and had to be approved by Mr. Trump.”While federal prosecutors in New York had laid out a general narrative around the payments, including Mr. Trump’s involvement, Mr. Cohen explicitly placed Mr. Trump at the center of the events, producing checks he described as evidence of the role the president and his company played.Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty last summer to campaign finance crimes relating to payments made to Ms. Daniels and a second woman, Karen McDougal, who also said she had had an affair with Mr. Trump. He is scheduled to begin serving a three-year prison sentence in May for those and other crimes, including lying to Congress during earlier testimony.Republican members of the committee on Wednesday repeatedly challenged Mr. Cohen’s remarks as untrustworthy, and even before Mr. Cohen was sworn in, the president posted on Twitter that he was “lying in order to reduce his prison time.” The Trump campaign also released a statement impugning Mr. Cohen’s credibility.But in testimony punctuated with flashes of anger and regret, Mr. Cohen said he had seen the errors of his ways and was determined to serve as a positive role model to his children. Insisting he was speaking the truth, he offered the first up-close description of how involved the president remained in concealing details of the payments, even after winning the election.He described a meeting with the president in February 2017 when Mr. Trump said two of the checks written to Mr. Cohen as reimbursement for the $130,000 had gotten caught up in the White House mail.“I’m visiting President Trump in the Oval Office for the first time, and it’s truly awe-inspiring,” Mr. Cohen said. “He’s showing me all around and pointing to different paintings. And he says to me something to the effect of, ‘Don’t worry, Michael, your January and February reimbursement checks are coming.’”Last year, Mr. Cohen said, the president contacted him after The Wall Street Journal first reported the payment to Ms. Daniels.Mr. Cohen said that he, Mr. Trump and Mr. Weisselberg discussed coordinating a statement that rebutted the report and that asserted that Mr. Cohen had paid Ms. Daniels on his own. He also described receiving a phone call that same month from Mr. Trump during an interview with Vanity Fair in which, Mr. Cohen said, the president directed him to tell the reporter that Mr. Trump had no knowledge of his dealings with Ms. Daniels.Separately, Mr. Cohen said one of his greatest misgivings surrounding the hush money involved the first lady, Melania Trump. Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump told him to lie to Ms. Trump about the payment.“He asked me to pay off an adult film star with whom he had an affair, and to lie to his wife about it, which I did,” he said in his opening remarks. “Lying to the first lady is one of my biggest regrets.”Mr. Cohen, who had worked for a decade at the Trump family business, also offered the clearest suggestion yet that Mr. Weisselberg, a stalwart of the company, was a key figure behind the effort to conceal the hush money. The executive has been a focus for several months of an investigation by federal prosecutors in New York, according to people briefed on the matter.Mr. Cohen suggested that the president and Mr. Weisselberg were mindful of the political and legal tightrope they were walking. He described a meeting he attended with Mr. Trump and Mr. Weisselberg in which Mr. Trump ordered the payment. After the meeting, Mr. Cohen said, he and Mr. Weisselberg debated the best way to pay Ms. Daniels — and then decided to disguise the reimbursement from Mr. Trump to Mr. Cohen by breaking it up into monthly installments.“I had asked Allen to use his money — I didn’t want to use mine — and he said he couldn’t,” Mr. Cohen testified. “He asked me if I knew anybody who wanted to have a party at one of his clubs,” he said, suggesting that the event could have provided an alternate justification for forwarding the funds. “I didn’t.”Mr. Cohen paid the money and in 2017 filed “sham invoices” to the Trump Organization, according to prosecutors.On Wednesday, Mr. Cohen produced two checks that he said were among 11 installments to reimburse him. One check, dated March 17, 2017, bore the signatures of Donald Jr. and Mr. Weisselberg. The other, dated Aug. 1, 2017, had the president’s.Wednesday’s congressional hearing is focusing in part on how much Trump knew about hush money payments and a proposed Trump Tower in Moscow.Asked why Ms. Daniels received the sum of $130,000, Mr. Cohen said it was the amount she had requested. Without the payment, he said, he had worried that her “story was going to go to TV”Mr. Cohen had long been aware of Ms. Daniels and the alleged affair. In 2011, he made legal threats as she promised to detail her allegations to a gossip website, TheDirty.com.“It was down to the wire,” Mr. Cohen told lawmakers on Wednesday, explaining why he initially paid her out of his own pocket.A lawyer for Mr. Weisselberg declined to comment. Mr. Weisselberg testified before a grand jury last year while prosecutors were building their case against Mr. Cohen, and was granted immunity from prosecution related to that testimony only.In response to questions from lawmakers on Wednesday, Mr. Cohen also mentioned Mr. Weisselberg as someone who would know about other possible irregularities at Mr. Trump’s company. The New York Times reported on Friday that Mr. Cohen met last month with federal prosecutors in Manhattan, offering information about possible issues involving insurance claims, and  reported last year that Mr. Trump had engaged in suspect tax schemes in accumulating his wealth.Mr. Cohen was also involved in the hush money payment to Ms. McDougal, a former Playboy model who received $125,000 from American Media Inc., the publisher of The National Enquirer. Mr. Cohen said that Mr. Trump had known she was shopping her story around in the summer of 2016 and that he had intended to reimburse the tabloid company for what it paid to keep her quiet.“He was supposed to pay,” Mr. Cohen said of the president. “He was supposed to pay $125,000 for the life story of Karen McDougal. For whatever reason, he elected not to pay it. David Pecker was very angry,” he said, referring to A.M.I.’s chief executive.Prosecutors said last summer that Mr. Cohen had promised to reimburse A.M.I. for the money paid to Ms. McDougal. In October 2016, they said, Mr. Pecker instructed Mr. Cohen to “tear up” the document relating to Ms. McDougal’s contract. He did not, and the document was among those seized in a raid of his office last spring.OpinionNoah BookbinderAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — As the child of former sharecroppers, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland is no stranger to blunt conversations about race. But when a fiery freshman Democrat practically accused a conservative Republican of racism on Wednesday, the uneasy truce that Mr. Cummings brokered put him in the center of a raw debate over race and gender in a changing House.The heated exchange came at the end of Wednesday’s explosive House Oversight Committee hearing featuring Michael D. Cohen. After Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina, brought in a black political appointee of President Trump’s in an effort to prove Mr. Trump is not racist, Representative Rashida Tlaib, Democrat of Michigan, called it racist to “actually use a prop, a black woman in this chamber, in this committee.”Mr. Meadows, red-faced and near tears, demanded that Ms. Tlaib’s words be “taken down” — struck from the record as a violation of House rules — and Mr. Cummings asked Ms. Tlaib to explain herself. She apologized. Then the questions began.“Whose emotions do we put first?” said Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, a close ally of Ms. Tlaib’s who is on the oversight panel and witnessed the encounter. “We had to apologize for him getting hurt feelings over her saying and calling out a racist practice,” but Ms. Tlaib was also “hurt, and no apology was furnished to her.”The Root, a website that focuses on race, went further: “Cummings’ handling of Tlaib yesterday is part of a larger problem the Democratic Party has with this new class of women of color: Democrats want women of color in Congress, but they can’t seem to handle their truth-telling,” wrote Terrell Jermaine Starr. He added, “He messed up and needs to apologize to Tlaib nonetheless — publicly. Otherwise, Republicans will take Meadows’ cue and cry a river of white tears each time a woman of color dares to call them out on their racism.”The episode underscored who Mr. Cummings is and how he wants to run his committee. On Thursday, many of his colleagues — including Ms. Ocasio-Cortez — came to his defense, saying he handled a difficult situation well by preventing an important and historic hearing from going off the rails.But outside the Capitol, the reviews were less kind. Critics were furious that Mr. Cummings had called Mr. Meadows “one of my best friends,” and resurfaced several 2012 campaign videos showing Mr. Meadows saying he intended to send President Barack Obama “home to Kenya, or wherever it is.”Beyond that contretemps, the Cohen hearing served to shine a national spotlight on a new generation of outspoken young Democrats, many of them women of color, who are forcing pointed conversations about race and abandoning the unwritten protocols of decorum in the way their elders — who often agree with them — have not.“You have to bear witness, bear witness to the truth,” said Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia and a civil rights icon, who applauded young women of color for getting into what he likes to call “good trouble, necessary trouble.”“This body is going to continue to change as more people of a diverse background come,” Mr. Lewis said. “America is changing. We all need to get on board.”But a generational divide could be emerging, especially with some African-American elders who have been in the House for decades. “I think they certainly bring a different perspective in some ways,” said Representative Danny K. Davis, Democrat of Illinois. “I think the wording sometimes is a little different. The level of what might be called ‘professional civility’ may be a little different, but I think the individuals are expressing in many ways the same feelings and are saying the same things.”For the House Republican Conference, 90 percent of whom are white and male, some uncomfortable moments are inevitable. Mr. Meadows called the “birther” videos “old news” on Thursday and said he had previously apologized. He also appeared to reconcile with Ms. Tlaib; the two shared a hug and a seemingly cordial talk on the House floor.“She said she didn’t mean it yesterday, so there was no need to apologize,” he told reporters afterward. “I wanted her to know, and she wanted me to know, that our relationship is one that will hopefully provide real good results going forward.”Mr. Meadows and Ms. Tlaib are political and cultural opposites. Mr. Meadows, 59, a well-to-do real estate developer, is the chairman of the House Freedom Caucus and one of Mr. Trump’s most ardent defenders on Capitol Hill.Ms. Tlaib, 42, made headlines on her first day in office after she was captured on video using an expletive to describe Mr. Trump as she spoke of her desire to impeach him. A lawyer and social justice advocate from Detroit, she is the daughter of Palestinian immigrants and one of the first two Muslim women in Congress.She did not respond to a request for an interview on Thursday. Mr. Cummings brushed aside questions. “I’m not going to talk about that,” he said. “I think we were able to resolve it. I think we ended up with civility.”Congress, of course, has been grappling with issues of race for most of its existence, and certainly the debates during the civil rights era were pointed and passionate. But the rise of Mr. Trump, who has referred to a former black aide, Omarosa Manigault Newman, as “a dog” and declared that there were “very fine people on both sides” of the white supremacists’ march in 2017 in Charlottesville, Va., has made Washington’s conversation about race deeply personal for Ms. Tlaib and other lawmakers of color.“As representatives of communities that are on the margins of how the president defines his vision of America, I think they bring an urgency and an emotional depth to their rhetoric that is not just academic,” said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California, who was also present for the Tlaib-Meadows exchange. “It’s lived experience.”Alexandra Rojas, the executive director of Justice Democrats, a liberal organization that helped elect both Ms. Tlaib and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, described Ms. Tlaib as “one of a new generation of Democrats who is going to puncture the silence even when it’s uncomfortable.”Mr. Meadows anticipated that Mr. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, would describe the president as racist, which is why he asked the Trump appointee, Lynne Patton of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to attend. When it was his turn to speak, he asked her to rise, and then he spoke for her, saying that she disagreed with Mr. Cohen and that “there was no way that she would work for an individual who was racist.”Ms. Tlaib was incredulous: “The fact that someone would actually use a prop, a black woman in this chamber, in this committee, is alone racist in itself.”Another Michigan Democrat, Representative Brenda Lawrence, who is African-American, said it was “totally insulting” for Mr. Meadows to “prop up one member of our entire race.”Representative Ayanna S. Pressley, a freshman Democrat from Massachusetts who is black, asked Mr. Cohen whether it was possible for Mr. Trump to “have a black friend and still be racist,” to which he replied, “Yes.”In fact, the only Democrats to call Mr. Meadows out were women of color. Men of color on the committee, such as Mr. Khanna and Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi of Illinois, held their tongues.While Mr. Cummings may have wanted to put the matter to rest, the exchange was reverberating inside and outside the Capitol.“I think that he handled it in the way that made sense for him and the committee in that moment,” said Adrianne Shropshire, the executive director of Black PAC, which mobilizes black voters. “He is the chair of the committee, and a part of that role has to be to facilitate and mediate between members.”Ms. Ocasio-Cortez agreed, saying she felt Mr. Cummings was “correct in the procedure” and was “trying to do everything in his power to protect” Ms. Tlaib from being reprimanded. But, she added, women of color often face disparate treatment at work.“At the end of the day,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said, “one person got an apology and one person didn’t, and two people were hurt.”Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.videoOpinionKashana CauleyAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie RogersWASHINGTON — The Government Accountability Office set out in 2017 to calculate the total cost to taxpayers of President Trump’s trips to Mar-a-Lago, his resort in Palm Beach, Fla., but said in a report issued on Tuesday that it could come up with only a snapshot of the expenses because the Trump administration did not respond to requests for more information.The agency ended up studying only four trips the president took over a one-month period in 2017 and found that government agencies, including the Defense Department and the Secret Service, spent some $13.6 million — an average of over $3 million for each trip — to transport and protect the president, with the bulk of the expenses going to cover the cost of military aircraft and boats during that time.The tab, officials say, is most likely higher since the total expenses that administration members racked up traveling, dining and staying at the resort are not known for the four trips, much less for the 218 days of his presidency that Mr. Trump has spent at one of his properties. Of that total,  78 of the days were spent at Mar-a-Lago.The G.A.O. officials who compiled the report said the White House did not respond to three separate requests for information that might help them flesh out travel costs, while the Secret Service and the Defense Department had not submitted regular accounting of expenses to Congress, as is required by the Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976.As a result, the G.A.O. studied only trips Mr. Trump took from Feb. 3 through March 5, 2017, hoping to piece together the costs. On one of those trips, for example, the president hosted Shinzo Abe, the prime minister of Japan, at Mar-a-Lago. At the time, a White House official said the president had paid for Mr. Abe and his wife’s trip to Florida as a “gift.”Without the White House’s cooperation, details of Mr. Trump’s personal expenditures related to that trip could not be included in the report. “You could assume it’s the total cost of $13.6 million,” Brian Lepore, the G. A.O.’s director of defense capabilities and management, said in an interview of the White House’s lack of response. “Plus something else.”Mr. Lepore emphasized that several agencies, including the Defense Department, the Secret Service and the Coast Guard, were able to furnish details, and that the Defense Department and the Secret Service had agreed to deliver more detailed reports to Congress in the future. In the case of the Defense Department, the report found that there had been no process in place for reporting expenditures.The White House did not respond to a request for comment on why it did not supply information for the report.Mr. Lepore said that the Obama White House, which underwent a similar review for trips President Barack Obama took to Chicago and West Palm Beach in 2013, met with G.A.O. officials but ultimately declined to release information. The Clinton White House, which faced a review in 1999, furnished cost information on President Bill Clinton’s international trips to Africa, Chile and China.“We’d certainly want to know the cost of lodging and meals and incidental expenses” incurred by staff members on trips to Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Lepore said.Noah Bookbinder, the executive director of the ethics watchdog CREW, said that the report raised significant issues, particularly since it found that about $60,000 had been pumped back into Mar-a-Lago during that time period.“When the president travels to visit his properties, he is promoting those businesses, offering them extensive free publicity as well as in some cases providing access and other perks to his paying customers,” Mr. Bookbinder said. “Of course when the money is paid directly to a presidential property like Mar-a-Lago, those conflict-of-interest concerns intensify.”The Democratic lawmakers who requested the report also asked officials to examine the costs of protecting two of the president’s sons, Eric and Donald Trump Jr., on three international trips taken in early 2017. The report found that the younger Trumps flew by commercial aircraft, and it cost the Secret Service about $396,000, mostly in temporary duty costs, to protect them on trips to Uruguay, the Dominican Republic and the United Arab Emirates.The Secret Service, which did not respond to a request for comment, is responsible for protecting the president’s adult children unless they decline those protections, as Donald Trump Jr. has done on and off in the past.The Democrats who requested the report, including Senators Dianne Feinstein of California and Gary Peters of Michigan, and Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, said they were alarmed by its findings.“This is part of a troubling pattern of wasteful spending and serious abuse of tax dollars by the administration,” they said in a statement. “We will keep investigating this issue to ensure taxpayer dollars are being used effectively and appropriately.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie HabermanPresident Trump claimed on Friday that his former personal lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen, “directly” asked him for a pardon, a sharp escalation of a fight over the veracity of Mr. Cohen’s testimony last week to the House Oversight and Reform Committee.Mr. Trump made the claim on Twitter, referring to Mr. Cohen’s testimony to Congress in which Mr. Cohen said the president lied to the public about business interests in Russia, lied to reporters about stolen Democratic emails and told Mr. Cohen to lie about hush payments to cover up sexual misconduct.Bad lawyer and fraudster Michael Cohen said under sworn testimony that he never asked for a Pardon. His lawyers totally contradicted him. He lied! Additionally, he directly asked me for a pardon. I said NO. He lied again! He also badly wanted to work at the White House. He lied!Mr. Cohen quickly responded in a tweet of his own, calling Mr. Trump’s assertions “lies.”Just another set of lies by @POTUS @realdonaldtrump. Mr. President...let me remind you that today is #InternationalWomensDay. You may want use today to apologize for your own #lies and #DirtyDeeds to women like Karen McDougal and Stephanie Clifford.Mr. Cohen was referring to two women who had claimed to have had affairs with the president, and who were paid to keep quiet about them during the 2016 presidential campaign.The exchange was the latest example of how the potential for pardons — whether hinted at by Mr. Trump and his team or sought after by people caught up in the investigations swirling around him — has become a more public flash point.The question of whether Mr. Cohen sought a pardon has been a  subject of contention since his testimony last week, when he said under oath that he had never sought one.His current lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, acknowledged this week that Mr. Cohen’s previous lawyer had inquired about a pardon soon after the F.B.I. searched Mr. Cohen’s home and office in April 2018. But Mr. Davis said that inquiry came about because the president’s team had “dangled” the possibility of one in implicit statements.Mr. Cohen has told associates that the signals from Mr. Trump about a pardon date back more than a year, soon after Mr. Cohen had publicly disclosed making what he said at the time were unreimbursed payments out of his own pocket in 2016 to Stormy Daniels, a pornographic film star who had claimed to have had an affair with the president a decade earlier.Mr. Cohen has told the associates that last March, before his office and homes were raided, he had dinner with Mr. Trump, and that he and the president talked on the phone after the raids in April. After those conversations, Mr. Cohen told the associates that he anticipated he would be given a pardon or some form of protection if he would remain silent about having been reimbursed by Mr. Trump for making the payments, according to people told of the discussions.Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump were part of a formal agreement in which their lawyers worked together to review documents that the F.B.I. had seized to determine what could be declared off limits to law enforcement officials because of attorney-client privilege. But that joint effort ended in July 2018, as Mr. Trump’s aides balked at paying parts of Mr. Cohen’s legal bills.The exchange between the two men on Friday highlighted the stakes for both in establishing whether Mr. Cohen was credible in the accusations he has made against the president in his congressional testimony and in providing information to federal prosecutors. Republicans and Mr. Trump’s allies have noted that in the testimony he said he had never sought a pardon. At the same time, Mr. Trump has often said things that are not true, including statements related to his knowledge of the payments to Ms. Daniels.The questions about the credibility of Mr. Cohen’s public testimony stands in contrast with how some prosecutors working with him have described him. A memo to the federal court judge overseeing Mr. Cohen’s case in Manhattan from the office of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, said that Mr. Cohen had been truthful and provided useful information in connection with their work. Federal prosecutors in Manhattan were more questioning about the timing and motivation for Mr. Cohen’s help, but they also have used information he provided that they were able to corroborate.The volleys between the two men on Friday also highlighted the continued questions about Mr. Trump’s pardon power and how he might use it as Mr. Mueller wraps up his investigation, as other federal prosecutors and Democrats in Congress intensify theirs and expand their scope into the president’s business career.The New York Times reported in March 2018 that Mr. Trump’s previous lead lawyer, John Dowd, had raised the possibility of pardons with lawyers for Paul Manafort, the president’s former campaign chairman, and Michael T. Flynn, the former national security adviser, after they had been charged in cases brought by Mr. Mueller’s team.Mr. Trump was asked Friday about the possibility of a pardon for Mr. Manafort. Mr. Manafort was sentenced to 47 months in prison on Thursday in one of two cases brought against him by Mr. Mueller’s prosecutors.“I haven’t discussed it,” Mr. Trump said, referring to a pardon for Mr. Manafort.Speaking to reporters outside the White House before leaving on a trip to Alabama and Florida, Mr. Trump elaborated in his comments about what he said were Mr. Cohen’s discussions about a pardon.“It was a stone-cold lie,” Mr. Trump said about Mr. Cohen’s claims that he had never sought a pardon. “And he’s lied about a lot of things, but when he lied about the pardon, that was really a lie.”Mr. Trump continued: “His lawyers said that they went to my lawyers and asked for pardons. And I can go a step above that, but I won’t do it now.”Mr. Trump’s current lead lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, has said the president is not focusing on pardons right now because it would not be appropriate — but he has also left open the possibility that the president might invoke that power down the road.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah Maslin Nir[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]In testimony before Congress this week, Michael Cohen cast himself as a central figure in schemes that could threaten the presidency of Donald J. Trump.But Mr. Cohen said he didn’t work alone, unexpectedly mentioning by name the involvement of another member of Mr. Trump’s inner circle, Allen Weisselberg, more than 20 times. The revelations are set to intensify the scrutiny on Mr. Weisselberg, Mr. Trump’s unassuming 71-year-old chief financial officer, who already is a focus for federal prosecutors in New York.On Wednesday, Mr. Cohen specifically identified Mr. Weisselberg as helping mastermind a strategy to mask reimbursements to Mr. Cohen for his payment to Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film actress who said she had an affair with Mr. Trump.Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform, said after Wednesday’s hearing that he “probably will” want to call additional witnesses, including Mr. Weisselberg, to gather additional evidence about the hush-money payment.A Democratic official said that the House Intelligence Committee anticipates calling Mr. Weisselberg to testify, as well.Mr. Cohen said in the hearing that the payment was ordered by Mr. Trump, which violated campaign finance laws because it was intended to buy Ms. Daniels’s silence so that she could not hurt Mr. Trump’s prospects right before the election.Mr. Cohen said he had paid Ms. Daniels with his own money, and then was repaid by the Trump Organization.“Allen Weisselberg made the decision that it should be paid over the 12 months so that it would look like a retainer,” Mr. Cohen told lawmakers, describing how reimbursements were made monthly.Mr. Cohen submitted to Congress a copy of a $35,000 check — labeled exhibit 5b — that he said was one of those monthly payments.It was signed by Mr. Weisselberg and Donald Trump Jr.Mr. Weisselberg declined to comment through his lawyers. But it is clear why lawmakers and investigators might home in on him as they examine the Trump Organization’s finances.After Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to campaign finance fraud and other crimes in August, federal prosecutors in Manhattan began focusing on what role the Trump Organization and its executives, including Mr. Weisselberg, played in the campaign finance scheme, according to people briefed on the matter.As part of the investigation, Mr. Weisselberg was granted limited immunity to testify before a federal grand jury last year. But there has been no indication that he has cooperated with prosecutors.Mr. Weisselberg, an accountant, began his career doing the books for Mr. Trump’s father in a dingy building in Brooklyn. For decades, he has represented Mr. Trump on paperwork for everything from complex real estate deals to the operations of the antique carousel in Central Park, which the Trump Organization runs.In 2015, a lawyer representing students who alleged they were defrauded by Mr. Trump’s education venture, Trump University, questioned Mr. Weisselberg during a deposition, describing him as “Mr. Trump’s eyes and ears for his investments.”Mr. Weisselberg replied, “Am I his eyes and ears? From an economic standpoint,” court records show. In 2016, Mr. Trump settled the case for $25 million.Corey Lewandowski, a former Trump campaign official, wrote in a book that he co-authored, “Let Trump Be Trump” that Mr. Weisselberg “knows of every dime that leaves the building.”Aside from Mr. Weisselberg, several other Trump associates may now be asked to testify before the House in the wake of Mr. Cohen’s hearing, including three executives at the Trump Organization: Matthew Calamari, Alan Garten and Ronald C. Lieberman.But Mr. Cummings said the committee would have to proceed carefully to avoid interfering with the investigation by federal prosecutors in the special counsel’s office and the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan.Still in an indication of what may come, Mr. Cummings has sent letters to two lawyers he said were involved in preparing Mr. Trump’s federal financial disclosure filing, which originally omitted payments he made to reimburse Mr. Cohen for the payment to Ms. Daniels.The letters requested that the lawyers, Sheri A. Dillon and Stefan C. Passantino, appear for interviews with the committee in March.Ms. Dillon is a tax lawyer who represents Mr. Trump. Mr. Passantino was a deputy White House counsel at the time focused on ethics, but has since left and now advises the Trump Organization on how to deal with House investigations.Mr. Weisselberg has previously been questioned under oath, in a lawsuit filed last year by the New York attorney general against the Trump Foundation, Mr. Trump’s charitable organization, where he served as treasurer. In late December, the foundation was dissolved after the attorney general accused it of fraud.The United States attorney’s office in Manhattan and the New York attorney general’s office declined to comment.Mr. Weisselberg’s involvement in the hush money payments to women first surfaced last year, when federal prosecutors seized recordings from Mr. Cohen’s office. On one of the recordings, Mr. Cohen was heard saying, “I’ve spoken to Allen Weisselberg about how to set the whole thing up.”For his part, Mr. Trump has expressed confidence that Mr. Weisselberg will not turn on the president.“100 percent he didn’t,” Mr. Trump told reporters for Bloomberg when asked last year whether Mr. Weisselberg had betrayed him. “He’s a wonderful guy.”Others are not so certain.“I am sure Allen does not want to hurt Donald, I am sure there is an affection there,” said Barbara Res, a former executive with the Trump Organization who is a critic of the president. “But he’s in a terrible position — and Donald put him there.”One secret to Mr. Weisselberg’s lifelong career with the Trump family is his earthy modesty, according to friends and biographers of Mr. Trump. He wears dark, unflashy suits and cultivates a salt-and-pepper mustache. He still shows up to his desk in Trump Tower every day, watching over the organization’s finances.“He did whatever was necessary to protect the bottom line,” Mr. Trump wrote about Mr. Weisselberg in his book “Think Like a Billionaire.”As a child in Brownsville, Brooklyn, Mr. Weisselberg played punchball until dark and rode the city bus to school for 15 cents. In “The Aurora,” the green, clothbound yearbook of the Thomas Jefferson High School class of 1965, he appears as a cowlicked teenage boy, and names his dream profession: accountant.President Trump’s father made that dream come true: In 1973 he hired Mr. Weisselberg to do his accounting at an office in Gravesend, Brooklyn.Mr. Weisselberg never lost his Brownsville humility, even as his employer lavished him with things like private jet rides to the pool at Mar-a-Lago and at least one advantageous real estate deal.“He is the embodiment of an accountant,” said Gwenda Blair, who interviewed Mr. Weisselberg for her 2000 book, “The Trumps.”Mr. Weisselberg’s lifestyle has remained modest, even as he rose to an office on the 26th floor of Trump Tower.He lived in a ranch-style house in Wantagh, Long Island with his wife of nearly 50 years, Hilary, before selling it in 2013 for $468,000. In 2002, they spent $282,000 for a vacation property — a low-slung house that backs up to a lagoon in Boynton Beach, Fla.Most recently, the Weisselbergs rented an apartment in a Trump-branded building on Riverside Boulevard. (In 2016, over 800 residents voted to strip the Trump name from its facade.)Mr. Weisselberg’s loyalty has been well-compensated, and his whole family has benefited from the relationship with Mr. Trump.One of Mr. Weisselberg’s sons, Barry, has been the property manager of Trump Wollman Rink for the past 17 years, according to his LinkedIn profile. There, he once hosted Hanukkah on Ice, dialing up his dad and putting him on speaker phone so he could hear the holiday songs. Barry Weisselberg declined to comment.Mr. Weisselberg’s other son, Jack, works at Ladder Capital, a real estate investment trust that is one of the Trump Organization’s biggest creditors.Jack has benefited in other ways: In 2000, his father purchased a one-bedroom apartment in the Trump Parc East building overlooking Central Park. It cost $152,500, which appears to have been purchased profoundly under market value, according to property records. He transferred the deed to his son Jack, according to property records, who flipped it for more than four times the original price in 2006.Jack Weisselberg did not respond to email or phone messages.Aside from an awkward cameo on the second season of Mr. Trump’s television show, “The Apprentice,” Mr. Weisselberg has until recently stayed out of the limelight, focusing on serving his boss.In his books and in interviews, the president has described Mr. Weisselberg as his go-to man, whether it was to help pick carpet swatches for a development, or to strong-arm firms with which he contracted.In Mr. Cohen’s testimony on Wednesday, Mr. Trump’s reliance on his C.F.O. was on display. When it came to paying back his fixer for the hush money, Mr. Cohen said the president turned to Mr. Weisselberg.“He acknowledged to Allen that he was going to pay the $130,000,” Mr. Cohen said, “And that Allen and I should go back to his office and figure out how to do it.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the street where the Weisselbergs rented an apartment in a Trump-branded building. It is on Riverside Boulevard, not Riverside Drive.Ben Protess and Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting. Susan C. Beachy contributed research.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas Fandos and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — Michael D. Cohen plans to tell Congress on Wednesday that President Trump is a “con man” and a “cheat” who knew a longtime adviser was communicating with WikiLeaks — and who implicitly instructed Mr. Cohen to lie about a Trump Tower project in Moscow that was underway during the 2016 presidential campaign.The extraordinary testimony will take place when Mr. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer and fixer, publicly appears before the House Oversight and Reform Committee. An advance copy of Mr. Cohen’s testimony was obtained Tuesday night by reporters at multiple news organizations, including The New York Times, just as Mr. Trump began meetings in Vietnam before convening with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.[Read the opening statement. Find what to watch for here.]Mr. Cohen and his lawyer and adviser, Lanny J. Davis, did not immediately reply to requests for comment.In a statement earlier Tuesday, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, condemned Mr. Cohen as a “disgraced felon.”“It’s laughable that anyone would take a convicted liar like Cohen at his word, and pathetic to see him given yet another opportunity to spread his lies,” she said.In vivid and at times tortured language, Mr. Cohen plans to use his opening remarks to unspool a narrative laced with regret of his decade working alongside Mr. Trump, including episodes during the 2016 campaign that are believed to be at the center of investigations by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and federal prosecutors in New York.The testimony underscores many of the unsavory themes and stories that have recurred in public reporting about Mr. Trump — he inflates his wealth, makes racist remarks, threatens his enemies and tries to bend the law to his favor — but puts them on the record, under oath, in the voice of a man who was one of Mr. Trump’s closest aides.“I am ashamed that I chose to take part in concealing Mr. Trump’s illicit acts rather than listening to my own conscience,” Mr. Cohen plans to say. “I am ashamed because I know what Mr. Trump is. He is a racist. He is a con man. He is a cheat.”But there are also more perilous claims that could further highlight Mr. Trump’s potential legal exposure in the investigations that have already ensnared Mr. Cohen and other Trump associates. Mr. Cohen’s testimony before the Oversight Committee will be his first in public, before Congress, but he has already spent more than 70 hours with Mr. Mueller’s investigators and with federal prosecutors in New York investigating a scheme hatched in the run-up to the 2016 election to make hush money payments to a pornographic film actress who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump.Mr. Cohen and his account will be subjected to deep scrutiny by Republicans, who have already begun to hammer away with questions about his past business dealings and credibility. They plan to use Wednesday’s hearing to paint Mr. Cohen as self-centered and untrustworthy — a man who ran afoul of the law, including by lying to Congress once before, and then once he was caught, sought to spin lies about his former boss to reduce his time in prison.Mr. Cohen will address his own past lies head-on and plans to use documents to try to bolster certain claims. He plans to draw a picture of Mr. Trump using the type of nonspecific directives more often associated with organized crime bosses than with American presidents.“In conversations we had during the campaign, at the same time I was actively negotiating in Russia for him, he would look me in the eye and tell me there’s no business in Russia and then go out and lie to the American people by saying the same thing,” Mr. Cohen plans to say. “In his way, he was telling me to lie.”He will add: “Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates.”Mr. Cohen also plans to say that Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers approved his testimony, suggesting that they signed off on him telling a false version of events to the House and Senate Intelligence Committees. Mr. Cohen is meeting with both committees again in private this week in part to correct those earlier false statements.“Mr. Trump knew of and directed the Trump Moscow negotiations throughout the campaign and lied about it,” Mr. Cohen will say. “He lied about it because he never expected to win the election. He also lied about it because he stood to make hundreds of millions of dollars on the Moscow real estate project.”Wednesday’s congressional hearing is focusing in part on how much Trump knew about hush money payments and a proposed Trump Tower in Moscow.What Mr. Trump said to Mr. Cohen has emerged as a central question, after the website BuzzFeed reported last month that Mr. Mueller had evidence that the president had “personally directed” his former lawyer to lie about the project when he testified before Congress in 2017. Mr. Mueller’s office called the report “inaccurate.”Mr. Cohen’s account under oath will state that something took place, but not that Mr. Trump made an overt directive.Mr. Cohen will also tell Congress that Mr. Trump had advance knowledge through his longtime adviser Roger J. Stone Jr. that WikiLeaks would publish hacked emails that would damage his opponent, Hillary Clinton.“In July 2016, days before the Democratic convention, I was in Mr. Trump’s office when his secretary announced that Roger Stone was on the phone. Mr. Trump put Mr. Stone on the speakerphone,” his written remarks say. “Mr. Stone told Mr. Trump that he had just gotten off the phone with Julian Assange and that Mr. Assange told Mr. Stone that, within a couple of days, there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Mr. Trump responded by stating to the effect of ‘wouldn’t that be great.’”Mr. Stone, who was recently indicted on charges that include witness tampering and false statements to Congress, has denied to reporters that such a conversation took place. The recent indictment against him made no mention of such a conversation, but it did state that a senior campaign official was directed to contact Mr. Stone around that period of time about what material WikiLeaks had.And Mr. Cohen will reference a conversation he claims to have observed between the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., and his father, which he believes happened around the time of a planned meeting with a Russian lawyer promising “dirt” on Hillary Clinton.He does not claim to have heard a direct reference to the meeting. Instead, Mr. Cohen will say, he recalled this event after The Times revealed the June 2016 meeting had taken place.“I recalled Don Jr. leaning over to his father and speaking in a low voice, which I could clearly hear, and saying, ‘The meeting is all set.’ I remember Mr. Trump saying, “O.K. good … let me know,’” Mr. Cohen will say.CNN reported last year, citing sources, that Mr. Cohen had witnessed the younger Mr. Trump describing the meeting with the Russian lawyer to his father. Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, Mr. Davis, later said he had provided information for that report and that it was erroneous.Much of what Mr. Cohen will say about the hush money payments he made at Mr. Trump’s behest in the final weeks of the 2016 campaign has already been revealed in Federal Court or in news reports after Mr. Cohen was charged with a campaign finance violation for the scheme. But he will describe a surreal scene in the Oval Office, just a month into Mr. Trump’s term, in which the president assured Mr. Cohen that reimbursement checks for the illegal payments were on their way.Mr. Cohen will chronicle less legally dubious but unflattering encounters, as well, according to the prepared remarks. He plans to say that as a candidate, Mr. Trump directed him to write letters to his high school, college and other entities threatening them not to release transcripts of his standardized test scores.He will claim that Mr. Trump asked him to put off reporters asking about his medical deferment from the Vietnam draft, telling Mr. Cohen privately that there were no medical records of the bone spurs that he has said affected his heel.“You think I’m stupid? I wasn’t going to Vietnam,” Mr. Trump said, according to Mr. Cohen.And he will assert that “it was my experience” that Mr. Trump inflated his wealth to garner attention, and deflated his assets to lower his tax bills.Mr. Cohen plans to describe his former boss as a jumble of conflicts, but one who is ultimately a dishonorable person.“Mr. Trump is an enigma,” Mr. Cohen will say. “He is complicated, as am I. He has both good and bad, as do we all. But the bad far outweighs the good, and since taking office, he has become the worst version of himself.”Detailing the hush money payments to the actress that Mr. Cohen was reimbursed for, he will state the affair as fact and will say that lying to Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, is something he deeply regrets. “She is a kind, good person,” he will say. “I respect her greatly, and she did not deserve that.”Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas Fandos and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — Staring down a looming prison sentence for lying to Congress and other crimes, Michael D. Cohen arrived on Capitol Hill last week declaring that he was finally ready to tell the truth about his decade of work alongside President Trump.“I have lied,” Mr. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer, told the House Oversight and Reform Committee at the outset of an explosive public hearing. “But I am not a liar.”At least for now, Mr. Cohen’s success in clearing up his past actions, over nearly a week of public and private testimony on Capitol Hill, has become more muddled.Mr. Cohen laid out a detailed case, complete with documentary evidence, that Mr. Trump fully participated in a fraudulent scheme during the closing weeks of his presidential campaign to buy the silence of a pornographic film actress who claimed they had an affair. But he left Washington on Wednesday having, however inadvertently, also handed his Republican critics just what they were looking for: fresh material they could weaponize to try to undermine the credibility of that larger account.They wasted little time in seizing it. Mr. Trump’s legal team and Republicans on Capitol Hill have in recent days accused Mr. Cohen of changing key details of his stories — particularly about a possible job in the White House and a possible presidential pardon — to his benefit, and of seeking to profit off his notoriety. Mr. Trump himself picked up on one of their points Thursday afternoon.Mr. Cohen’s allies have brushed off the criticism as little more than distractions, and suggested that the release of additional testimony he gave in private will clear him.Still, the conflicting and disputed claims underscore Mr. Cohen’s flaws as a witness, at least in the version of investigations being litigated publicly by Congress.“If today’s answer is different than yesterday’s answer, he just gets a reset, and says now I’m telling you the truth?” said Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, which also privately grilled Mr. Cohen last week. “Prove it.”All indications remain, however, that Mr. Cohen has proved to be a valuable witness for federal prosecutors working for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who have vouched for his truthfulness, and the Southern District of New York, who appear to have built a case at least in part around his accounts.In his public testimony before the House Oversight Committee last week, Mr. Cohen emphatically denied that he had ever wanted a White House job or a presidential pardon.“I did not want to go to the White House,” Mr. Cohen asserted under questioning.But while he was still seated at the table in the hearing room, one of the president’s sons, Eric Trump, took to Twitter to dispute one of the claims.“Michael was lobbying EVERYONE to be ‘Chief of Staff,’” he wrote. “It was the biggest joke in the campaign and around the office. Did he just perjure himself again?” Other members of the 2016 Trump campaign backed him up.Mr. Cohen was just as adamant that he had not sought a pardon from Mr. Trump.“I have never asked for, nor would I accept, a pardon from Mr. Trump,” he said at the hearing.A week after that testimony, though, Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, told The Wall Street Journal that Mr. Cohen had directed his former lawyer, Stephen Ryan, to inquire about the possibility of a pardon with Mr. Trump’s lawyers.Mr. Davis maintained that there was no discrepancy between that statement and Mr. Cohen’s testimony, insisting that his client had given those instructions only after the Trump team had “dangled” a possible pardon while they were all part of a shared defense. Mr. Davis said that Mr. Cohen was referring in his testimony to the period after early July 2018, when the president’s former fixer split from his old boss.This time, it was Mr. Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., who pounced.“So Cohen’s lawyer is admitting that Cohen committed perjury just last week when he said he NEVER sought a pardon?” the president’s son, who of the Trump children was the closest to Mr. Cohen, posted on Twitter. “Just making sure we are all on the same page here. CC: DOJ.”Republicans in Congress, who conspicuously sought at the hearings to discredit Mr. Cohen rather than defend the president, quickly sought to document what they claimed were inconsistencies. Two of the Oversight Committee’s top Republicans, Representatives Jim Jordan of Ohio and Mark Meadows of North Carolina, referred Mr. Cohen to the Justice Department for possible prosecution for perjury.Mr. Cohen’s testimony, they wrote, had been “a spectacular and brazen attempt to knowingly and willfully testify falsely and fictitiously to numerous material facts.” They documented what they said were six possible material misstatements by Mr. Cohen during the hearing, and on Thursday added Mr. Cohen’s statements about pardons to the list.“As I warned before Mr. Cohen’s appearance before the Oversight Committee, relying on an admitted liar to attack the president is beneath the dignity of the People’s House,” Mr. Jordan said in a statement on Thursday. On Twitter, he asked the committee’s chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, to take the claims seriously.Democrats have been careful to qualify that they will need additional testimony and evidence to corroborate some of Mr. Cohen’s claims. But they have dismissed Republicans’ accusations as simple partisanship.“I don’t think people should jump to conclusions until they have a chance to review all the evidence, including the testimony,” Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi of Illinois, a Democratic member of the Oversight and Intelligence Committees.People close to Mr. Cohen said that he had been expecting Republicans to attack his truthfulness.Mr. Davis said in an interview that what Mr. Trump and his allies were doing was reminiscent of his own days working as a counsel in the Clinton White House during congressional investigations led by Republicans. In this case, he said, the goal is distracting from the fact that the president was reimbursing Mr. Cohen.“What we would do is focus on a little trip-up, or pebble or something,” Mr. Davis said, with the intention of getting “everybody to talk about it so the big picture is obscured.”“When we were facing a serious media storm,” he said, “we would do everything we could to change the subject to something trivial.” The bigger picture, Mr. Davis said, “is we have proven beyond any doubt that the president of the United States committed a felony by writing those checks.”There were other public statements by Mr. Cohen under scrutiny as well.Mr. Cohen testified in public that White House lawyers, including Jay Sekulow, had edited the false statement he delivered to Congress in 2017 about a proposed Trump Tower project in Moscow during the 2016 presidential campaign.“There were several changes that were made including how we were going to handle that message, which was — the message of course being the length of time that the Trump Tower Moscow project stayed and remained alive,” he said.Mr. Cohen shared drafts of the statement and other documents with the intelligence committees on Wednesday that he said supported that public claim. But on Thursday, Mr. Davis confirmed to CNN that Mr. Cohen had in fact written the false line.Others familiar with discussions that took place at the time of Mr. Cohen’s original testimony said that his lawyers approved all of the Trump legal team’s proposals. These people added that the Trump lawyers had no indication at the time that the dates cited by Mr. Cohen were inaccurate.Nicholas Fandos reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Emily Cochrane contributed reporting from Washington.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael WinesIn his first appearance before a House committee controlled by Democrats, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross faced pointed questions on Thursday about his sworn testimony on his decision last year to add a question on citizenship to the 2020 census.Democrats at the hearing, held by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, expressed incredulity at Mr. Ross’s insistence that he had sought the question at the behest of the Justice Department, an explanation that two federal judges have said was not credible.Representative William Clay, a Missouri Democrat, said one explanation of Mr. Ross’s deliberations “does not pass the laugh test,” and disclosed that a draft of the Justice Department’s request had been written by a former member of the Trump administration’s political transition team.The committee’s questioning came ahead of a Supreme Court hearing next month on the legality of the citizenship question, which has been challenged by attorneys general for 17 states, the District of Columbia and a host of cities and counties. Critics say that adding the question will discourage immigrants from filling out the form and will improve Republican political fortunes.The census count will determine which states gain or lose seats in the House of Representatives when redistricting begins in 2021.Republicans on Thursday fulminated that Democrats were staging a political sideshow aimed at tainting the Supreme Court hearing. For his part, Mr. Ross rebuffed questions by repeatedly citing a six-page memo he used to announce the citizenship question in March 2018, and by largely refusing to elaborate.The memo said that the Justice Department needed to know where noncitizens lived to better determine whether the racial or ethnic composition of political districts met the mandates of the 1965 Voting Rights Act. But a federal judge in Manhattan ruled in January that Mr. Ross and his aides clearly had decided to add the question shortly after taking office in February 2017, and that they had recruited Justice Department officials “to launder their request through another agency — that is, to obtain cover for a decision that they had already made.”Mr. Ross’s efforts to refute that drew scorn from some Democrats. Asked about an email from May 2017 in which he complained about inaction on “my months-old request that we include the citizenship question,” Mr. Ross said he was actually frustrated over the Justice Department’s slowness in telling him whether it needed citizenship data.No conclusive alternative explanation for including the question has emerged in lawsuits. But plaintiffs in lawsuits have claimed — and some Democrats suggested on Wednesday — that the real reason for asking census respondents about their citizenship was to frighten noncitizens and even some legal immigrants from filling out the form. That would depress the population count among groups that traditionally vote Democratic, and skew the next reapportionment of the House of Representatives and other political districts in 2021.Noncitizens are counted for reapportionment of the House under the 14th Amendment, which requires that apportioning be based on “the whole number of persons in each state.” Mr. Ross said, as court documents already showed, that he had both discussed and received information on the impact of noncitizens on reapportionment. But he said he had not considered that information when considering the citizenship question.The citizenship question has been challenged in federal courts in three states, and courts in New York and Maryland have already ruled against its inclusion in the 2020 head count. Judge Jesse M. Furman of the Federal District Court in Manhattan said Mr. Ross had broken “a veritable smorgasbord” of federal rules. A second ruling in a federal court in Maryland stated that Mr. Ross’s decision violated the constitutional requirement to conduct an accurate count of the population because it would depress the response to the census.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian AustenOTTAWA — Canada’s former justice minister repeatedly warned the country’s top public servant about possible political fallout if she intervened in a criminal case involving a major Canadian corporation, according to a recording of their conversation released on Friday.Jody Wilson-Raybould, who was also the former attorney general, gave the recording to a parliamentary committee that had been looking into her accusations that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his top aides had improperly pressured her over how to handle the case.She also provided the committee, where she testified last month, with emails, texts and a statement.Her accusations led to a political crisis for Mr. Trudeau that has dominated news coverage in Canada for the last two months and badly tarnished his image as a feminist who had pledged to bring clean ways to politics.[Read: How Justin Trudeau Was Ensnared by Scandal: A Corruption Case and ‘Veiled Threats’]In the firestorm, Ms. Wilson-Raybould resigned from the cabinet — where she had been moved to the post of veterans affairs — as did Jane Philpott, another minister, and Gerald Butts, Mr. Trudeau’s close friend and top political adviser. Michael Wernick, the clerk of the privy council, also resigned his post.Mr. Trudeau has repeatedly denied that anyone strong-armed Ms. Wilson-Raybould, saying the government was concerned that a criminal conviction for the company would put thousands of Canadian jobs at risk.He is now preparing his campaign for re-election in October, and has been trying to divert the country’s attention away from the controversy and toward his achievements and plans for the future. Friday’s release of documents is not likely to help.In her statement, Ms. Wilson-Raybould, a lawyer who was once a regional chief of First Nations on Canada’s west coast and an advocate for Indigenous rights, commented on how the case has been portrayed in the media.“A significant part of the public discourse about this matter has touched on issues of race and gender and in particular there have been undeniable elements of misogyny, most of it aimed at myself,” she wrote.Echoing Mr. Trudeau’s call during the last election for a different approach to politics, Ms. Wilson-Raybould thanked Canadians “who give me hope” and wrote that she looked forward “to acting alongside them in the future — a future where we truly do politics differently.”[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for the Canada Letter newsletter.]In the recording, which is just over 17 minutes long, Mr. Wernick, the clerk of the privy council, told Ms. Wilson-Raybould repeatedly about Mr. Trudeau’s concerns about potential job losses if the company, SNC-Lavalin, was convicted on bribery charges, and then banned from government work.The company has been charged with bribing Libyan officials during the dictatorship of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, and defrauding the Libyan government.Mr. Wernick said Mr. Trudeau did not want to do anything illegal or inappropriate, and asked Ms. Wilson-Raybould why she was unwilling to use a new law that could replace a criminal conviction with a hefty monetary penalty.Ms. Wilson-Raybould warned the clerk about the dangers of the government intervening in the case and issuing orders to prosecutors who are independent of politicians in Canada.“Does he not understand the gravity of what this potentially could mean?” she asked the clerk, referring to Mr. Trudeau. “This is not about saving jobs. This is about interfering with one of our fundamental institutions. This is like breaching a constitutional principle.”While Mr. Wernick is not confrontational in the conversation with the former minister, he is persistent in pushing for a settlement.“It is not a good idea for the prime minister and his attorney general to be at loggerheads,” he says at one point.The recording was made without Mr. Wernick’s knowledge, Ms. Wilson-Raybould told the committee in her statement. This is legal in Canada, but she acknowledged that it was “inappropriate.”She said that because she took the call at her home in Vancouver, British Columbia, she didn’t have access to a staff member to take notes.Asked to comment on Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s submission to the committee, Cameron Ahmad, Mr. Trudeau’s director of communications, said in an email statement Friday night, “We are focused on moving forward as a team on the issues that matter to Canadians and governing in the best interests of the country.”Last week Mr. Trudeau put new processes in place for how the government handles criminal matters and has ordered a review into splitting the attorney general’s job from that of the justice minister.But that has not satisfied the opposition Conservative party, which has been trying to keep the controversy alive.Conservatives have demanded that the justice committee call Ms. Wilson-Raybould back for more testimony, but the committee, dominated by Mr. Trudeau’s Liberal party, has refused. The Conservative leader, Andrew Scheer, has frequently accused Mr. Trudeau of a cover-up.Mr. Trudeau has been careful not to criticize Ms. Wilson-Raybould or Ms. Philpott, and the two ministers remain as Liberal members of Parliament.But over the last week, other Liberal caucus members and cabinet ministers have not been so circumspect when it comes to their former colleagues.Canadians vote for their local members of Parliament, not the political parties or the prime minister. As a result, the political turmoil Ms. Wilson-Raybould triggered could affect their colleagues’ chances of re-election in this October’s federal election.The criticisms became more widespread last week after Ms. Philpott told Maclean’s magazine that “there’s much more to the story that needs to be told,” but that it wasn’t coming out because “there’s been an attempt to shut down the story” by Mr. Trudeau and his aides.But in his statement Friday night, Mr. Ahmad said, “All the facts are on the table now, and everyone involved has shared their perspective, including the prime minister.”Some Liberal members of Parliament now say they will push to expel Ms. Wilson-Raybould and Ms. Philpott at a caucus meeting scheduled for Wednesday.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe absurdity of denying Trump’s bigotry.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistIt’s hard to say what’s a bigger taboo in American politics: being a racist, or calling someone one.Sure, the Republican Party will occasionally try to distance itself from one of its more egregiously hateful members, like Representative Steve King of Iowa, who lost committee assignments after seeming to defend white nationalism. But mostly, right-wing politicians and their media allies pretend, to the point of farce, that the primary racial injustice in America involves white people unfairly accused of racism. This makes talking openly about the evident racism of our president harder than it should be.To see how this works in microcosm, consider the House Oversight Committee hearing at which Donald Trump’s former consigliere Michael Cohen testified on Wednesday. Cohen said, in his opening statement, that, in addition to being a con man and a cheat, Trump is a racist. This should be clear to all people of good faith, given that Trump was a leading figure in the birther movement, defended white supremacist marchers in Charlottesville, and claimed he couldn’t get a fair hearing from a judge of Mexican heritage, to mention just a few examples.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]But Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina, strenuously objected to Cohen’s description, and came up with what he seemed to think was an airtight rejoinder. Meadows, who is white, had Lynne Patton, an African-American woman and longtime Trump employee now at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, stand behind him, and quoted her saying that she would not work for a racist. Checkmate!In the past, one person who would often publicly vouch for Trump’s non-racism was Omarosa Manigault Newman, the “Apprentice”-star-turned-White House aide. Then Manigault Newman came out with a book calling Trump “a racist, a bigot and a misogynist.” As part of her promotional tour for that book, she released an audio recording of a conversation she had with Patton and another African-American Trump supporter, Katrina Pierson, strategizing about how to handle the fallout should a tape surface of Trump using a racist slur. On the recording Patton, the person Meadows called upon as a character witness for the president, didn’t seem doubtful that Trump could have said such a thing.Many liberals were agog at this stunt by Meadows; on the left it's largely accepted that responding to charges of racism by pointing to black friends — never mind black employees — is clueless at best. Some white conservatives, however, seem convinced that you can’t be racist if you have an affectionate relationship with a person of color. And so when Representative Rashida Tlaib, Democrat of Michigan, called out Meadows toward the end of the hearing, he was so aggrieved he nearly melted down.The “fact that someone would actually use a prop, a black woman, in this chamber, in this committee, is alone racist in itself,” said Tlaib, who is Palestinian-American. Red-faced, indignant and seemingly on the verge of tears, Meadows demanded that Tlaib’s words be stricken from the record, turned the charge of racism back on her, and said that he has nieces and nephews who are people of color. In a stunning dramatization of how racial dynamics determine whose emotions are honored, the hearing momentarily came to a halt so that Tlaib could assure Meadows that she didn’t mean to call him a racist, and the committee chairman, Elijah Cummings, who is African-American, could comfort him. “I could see and feel your pain,” Cummings told him.So Meadows emerged as the victim. There was, however, another twist. It turns out that in 2012, Meadows said some very racist things about Barack Obama, promising, on at least two occasions, to send the American president “home to Kenya or wherever it is.” As recordings of these comments ricocheted through the news, Meadows didn’t quite apologize, but he did tell reporters that his words were “not the way that I should’ve answered the questions.” (In only one instance did he appear to be responding to a question.) “I can tell you that anyone who knows me knows that there is not a racial bone in my body,” he added.I don’t know Meadows, or what a “racial bone” is, but I suspect he may not be the best arbiter of what constitutes bigotry. Then again, when it comes to Trump, no arbiter is really needed. Why, after all, was Meadows’s rediscovered birtherism so newsworthy, automatically understood as pertinent to a debate about his racism, or lack thereof? Because there’s a mainstream assumption that it is racist to say that Obama secretly hails from Africa. This should, but somehow doesn’t, translate into a mainstream assumption that Trump, who rode birther conspiracies to political prominence, is an unrepentant racist. He should be shunned as Steve King is shunned, but he can’t be shunned because he is the president.This contradiction is behind some of the madness of our public life right now. Normalizing Trump, which has become a central mission of the Republican Party, depends on denial about what racism is. Not for the first time, Tlaib got in trouble for pointing out the obvious — the president is a bigot, and that in bringing out Patton to exonerate him, Meadows only demonstrated his own gross insensitivity.On Thursday, Tlaib and Meadows reportedly had a warm conversation on the House floor; according to a CNN reporter, they hugged. I’m glad; given how much she’s been demonized in her short time in Congress, it’s probably in her interest to make Meadows feel better about their earlier exchange. Who knows, if she’s friendly enough, maybe he’ll be able to cite their relationship next time he’s caught saying something awful.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie KarniWASHINGTON — As a political appointee at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Lynne Patton has become one of the most prominent African-American officials in the Trump administration, and it was the color of her skin and her relationship with President Trump that led to her appearance during Michael D. Cohen’s congressional testimony on Wednesday.Before getting her job at HUD, Ms. Patton was an event planner in New York, and worked for the Trump Organization and for the Eric Trump Foundation. Anticipating Mr. Cohen’s accusation that President Trump was a racist, Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina, invited Ms. Patton to appear as a rebuttal to the charge.“You made some very demeaning comments about the president that Ms. Patton doesn’t agree with,” Mr. Meadows said, after Mr. Cohen called his former boss a racist and noted that, among other comments, “he told me that black people would never vote for him because they were too stupid.”As Ms. Patton, 46, stood silently behind him, Mr. Meadows argued that Ms. Patton’s loyalty to Mr. Trump proved that could not be true.“I asked Lynne to come today in her personal capacity to actually shed some light,” Mr. Meadows said. “She says that as a daughter of a man born in Birmingham, Ala., that there is no way that she would work for an individual who was racist.”Mr. Meadows asked that Ms. Patton’s “entire statement be put in the record,” but Ms. Patton never opened her mouth. And shortly after Mr. Meadows called her to stand behind him, she left the chamber. But the brief cameo ignited a heated exchange about race later in the hearing.Representative Rashida Tlaib, Democrat of Michigan, called it “insensitive” and possibly racist “to use a black woman as a prop.”“As a person of color in this committee, that is how I felt at that moment and I wanted to express that,” she said in the House Oversight and Reform Committee’s afternoon session with Mr. Cohen. “I’m saying that in itself it is a racist act.”Mr. Meadows fired back, noting that his own “nieces and nephews are people of color.” Appealing to Representative Elijah E. Cummings, the chairman of the committee, Mr. Meadows insisted that “to even go down this direction is wrong.”Mr. Cummings, a Maryland Democrat who is African-American, defended Mr. Meadows, calling him “one of my best friends.”Ms. Tlaib then said she did not intend to call him racist. “I do apologize if that’s what it sounded like,” she said. “I said someone in general. And as everybody knows in this chamber, I’m pretty direct.”But the idea that Ms. Patton’s mere presence and loyalty to the Trump family would somehow rebut the allegation that the president could be racist was widely and immediately criticized by Democrats, inside and outside the House chamber.The stunt “just shows how ignorant Republicans are when it comes to race,” Karine Jean-Pierre, a senior adviser to the progressive political organizing group MoveOn.org, wrote on Twitter. “It’s also offensive and beyond the pale.”Ms. Patton said she received an invitation from Mr. Meadows to appear at the hearing after he saw a picture on her Instagram account that she posted on Tuesday. Under a photograph of her smiling with Mr. Cohen at the Trump Grill, she described Mr. Cohen as one of her best friends for over a decade.“I am sad that Michael would — once again, on a world stage — levy unsubstantiated claims — particularly those of bigotry and racism — against a man who has single-handedly helped raise five of the most unbiased and open-minded children I’ve ever known,” she wrote.Ms. Patton said the statement submitted on Wednesday to the House committee was identical to a 387-word caption on her Instagram photo.Ms. Patton, who spoke at the Republican National Convention in 2016, has only risen in prominence in the Trump orbit after a tell-all book by Omarosa Manigault Newman, another prominent African-American official who spent years defending Mr. Trump.In a memoir she published after being fired from the  White House in December 2017, Ms. Manigault Newman also accused Mr. Trump of being racist. And in recordings she released while promoting the book, Ms. Manigault Newman put out a taped discussion she had with Ms. Patton about whether Mr. Trump had ever used the N-word. On the tape, they discuss the possibility that Mr. Trump used the word in a recorded conversation, but it remains unclear to them if he did.Since then, Ms. Patton, who is now HUD’s New York regional director and has recently drawn attention for spending a month in the city’s public housing, has been eager to demonstrate her loyalty to the Trump family.But Ms. Manigault Newman, who was watching Mr. Cohen’s testimony from home, said in an interview that her former colleague was simply being used.“Bringing Lynne in to this particular hearing was just for show,” she said. Referring to Mr. Trump’s practice of having staff members sign nondisclosure agreements, she said, “Everyone knows she’s under multiple NDA agreements, and she could not say anything disparaging about the president and the first family even if she wanted to.” Ms. Manigault-Newman added that she agreed with Mr. Cohen’s categorization of Mr. Trump as racist.Ms. Patton denies she has a nondisclosure agreement.“You don’t need an NDA when you’re simply telling the truth,” she said.An earlier version of a video caption with this article misspelled the given name of a political appointee at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. She is Lynne Patton, not Lynn.OpinionKashana CauleyAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian AustenOTTAWA — Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada has been trying for weeks to shift the country’s attention from accusations by his former justice minister that his government improperly pressured her on a criminal case.On Wednesday, members of his party helped him do that by blocking the minister from testifying again about the matter before a parliamentary committee.Mr. Trudeau’s opponents immediately cried foul.“What does this say to Canadians?” said Tracey Ramsey, a member of the New Democratic Party. “That they have something to hide.”The committee is controlled by Mr. Trudeau’s Liberal party. Liberal committee members did not speak with reporters.Last month, the former justice minister, Jody Wilson-Raybould, who was also a former attorney general, told the House of Commons justice committee that Mr. Trudeau and his aides had persistently and improperly pressured her to seek a monetary penalty, rather than a criminal conviction, in a corruption case against SNC-Lavalin, a giant Montreal-based company.The company is accused of paying tens of millions of dollars in bribes to Libyan officials when the country was ruled by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.Last week, Mr. Trudeau’s top political aide and best friend from college, Gerald Butts, also testified before the committee.He said Ms. Wilson-Raybould was asked to consider the monetary penalty because a conviction would bar SNC-Lavalin from government contracts, and potentially jeopardize 9,000 Canadian jobs.He also told lawmakers that Ms. Wilson-Raybould, who was moved to the less prestigious post of veterans affairs in January before she resigned from the cabinet, was first offered the job of Indigenous affairs minister but turned it down.After his testimony, Ms. Wilson-Raybould, who remains a Liberal member of Parliament, said she was willing to retestify. And Conservatives pushed for the committee to call her back.But lawmakers shut the meeting without formally considering inviting her back. As the vote was held to adjourn, several Conservative members shouted “cover up” and “shame.”“Mr. Trudeau directed his committee members to shut down the committee’s investigation into the SNC-Lavalin scandal,” Pierre Poilievre, a Conservative, told reporters. “The justice committee has become the Justin committee.”When Mr. Trudeau held a new conference about the controversy last week, he conspicuously did not offer any apologies but cited the importance of the committee hearings as well as a conflict of interest investigation by the Parliamentary ethics commissioner.Since then, the Liberals appear to have been trying to focus the conversation on a budget that will be presented on Tuesday and will outline the government’s priorities leading up to the national election in October.Mr. Trudeau is in Florida this week with his family on a school break vacation.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian AustenOTTAWA — If Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had any thought that a burgeoning political scandal could be quietly contained, that hope vanished on Thursday, as Canadians dissected the explosive testimony from his former justice minister before a parliamentary committee.“I don’t think I’ve ever seen a minister strafe her own government like this,” said Andrew MacDougall, who was the spokesman for Stephen Harper, the Conservative prime minister Mr. Trudeau replaced in 2015. “It just reinforces people’s perception that all politicians are kind of bent.”During nearly four hours of testimony before the House of Commons justice committee on Wednesday evening, the former minister, Jody Wilson-Raybould, repeatedly contradicted and undermined Mr. Trudeau’s assertions that neither he nor his staff acted improperly in trying to settle a criminal case against SNC-Lavalin, a multinational construction and engineering company based in Montreal.[Latest update: Trudeau promised a fresh approach to politics. Now he’s embroiled in scandal.]Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s description of 10 meetings, 10 conversations and a series of emails about the criminal case from senior government officials dominated social media and news coverage in Canada on Thursday, as Andrew Scheer, the Conservative opposition leader in Parliament, asked the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to open a criminal investigation of the matter.Mr. Trudeau, who is running for re-election this fall, is already fending off a call for his resignation by Mr. Scheer as well as demands for an independent public inquiry.On Thursday night, the opposition parties led an emergency debate in the House of Commons, during which they condemned the actions of the prime minister and his circle. Liberal members reiterated Mr. Trudeau’s explanations and quoted Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s testimony that no one acted illegally or undermined the justice system.Parliament’s ethics commissioner is already looking at the accusations.[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]Mr. Trudeau has acknowledged that he and others spoke with Ms. Wilson-Raybould about cutting a deal in the case, in which SNC-Lavalin has been charged with paying millions of dollars in bribes to officials in Libya while the country was controlled by the dictator Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, but he has denied acting improperly.The deal would have seen the company pay a large penalty but not receive a criminal conviction, which would have barred it from government work for a decade — and possibly led to its leaving Canada or cutting thousands of jobs, particularly in Quebec.On Thursday, Mr. Trudeau rejected Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s assertion that government officials’ talks with her were improper “political interference” delivered with “veiled threats.”“Canadians expect their government to look for ways to protect jobs, to grow the economy, and that’s exactly what we’ve done every step of the way,” Mr. Trudeau told reporters in Montreal. “But we’ve also done it in a way that has respected our laws and respected the independence of the judiciary.”Mr. Trudeau predicted that the justice committee, which is controlled by his Liberal Party, and the ethics commissioner, whose role largely limits him to monitoring potential conflicts of interest, will vindicate him.But several analysts said Mr. Trudeau may find it difficult to avoid an independent inquiry.“While the government doesn’t want to subject itself to weeks of intense scrutiny, not opening it up looks very bad,” said Emmett Macfarlane, an associate professor of political science at the University of Waterloo in Ontario.“If this drags out,” he added, “how do they avoid a process that has the potential to conclude that this is something shady that happens behind the scenes all the time?”John Duffy, a former adviser in a previous Liberal government, pointed out that although Ms. Wilson-Raybould, who also served as attorney general, accused Mr. Trudeau and his aides of acting improperly, she acknowledged in her testimony that no one pressuring her about SNC-Lavalin broke any laws and specifically assured Canadians that the judicial system was not broken.“I’m not trying to make it out that this was a civics textbook example of how things should work out,” Mr. Duffy said, adding that in the end Ms. Wilson-Raybould did not give the company a break and the prosecution had continued.“But this is about governing style, the sausage making,” he said.That is not, however, an assessment shared by Mr. Trudeau’s opponents, who have cast the affair as a group made up mostly of men ganging up on a woman who was trying to uphold the principle of judicial dependence.Norman Spector, who was chief of staff to Brian Mulroney, a former Canadian prime minister, said most people now likely view the affair “as a pretty simplistic story about the Liberals helping their friend in Quebec.”“They will have suspicions that the system is rigged,” added Mr. Spector, who recently was an adviser to the Green Party of British Columbia.While Mr. Spector believes that Mr. Trudeau will vigorously resist calls for an inquiry, he noted that the prime minister has already backed off from several positions in the controversy.Most notably, the Liberal majority on the justice committee kept Ms. Wilson-Raybould off its initial witness list for its hearings before adding her.On Thursday, Gerald Butts, a close friend of Mr. Trudeau’s who stepped down as his top political adviser last week because of the controversy, asked the justice committee to call him as a witness.Last month, Ms. Wilson-Raybould was moved from Canada’s Justice Department to Veterans Affairs, a step now widely linked to her resistance on the SNC-Lavalin case. This month she quit the cabinet entirely, although she declined to offer a specific reason for that decision.Mr. Trudeau said on Thursday that he was reviewing her status as a member of the Liberal caucus in Parliament, where Ms. Wilson-Raybould represents a constituency in Vancouver, British Columbia.While some Liberals have said privately that several caucus members want her removed, that action has the potential to make her a political martyr.“If I was advising the prime minister, I would be very hesitant to recommend that he take that action,” Professor Macfarlane said.Follow Ian Austen on Twitter: @ianrausten.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Choe Sang-HunSEOUL, South Korea — North Korean officials returned to work at a joint inter-Korean liaison office on Monday, just three days after North Korea pulled its staff members from the office it has operated with South Korea since last September.North Korea abruptly withdrew workers from the liaison office, located in the North Korean border town of Kaesong, last Friday, raising fears that its was hardening its position toward the South weeks after the summit meeting between its leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Trump, ended without a deal.But several North Korean officials showed up in the office on Monday, telling their South Korean counterparts that they have returned to work “as usual,” the South’s Ministry of National Unification said in a statement. The North Koreans returned to the office two days after Mr. Trump tweeted that he had ordered his government to withdraw “additional large scale sanctions” against the North, though it was not clear whether the two moves were connected.The unification ministry said it expected the operation of the inter-Korean official to return to normal. But the North Koreans did not explain why they withdrew from the office on Friday, or why it then reversed its decision.South Korean officials dealing with the North have long complained about its unpredictable behavior.The sudden withdrawal of North Korean personnel on Friday was a setback for President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, who had billed the office’s opening as a milestone in improving inter-Korean relations. The office established the first channel for full-time, person-to-person contact between the two Koreas since the 1950-53 Korean War.South and North Korea agreed to open the liaison office when Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim held their first summit meeting in April.After the breakdown of the Trump-Kim summit meeting in late February, North Korea has repeatedly expressed its disappointment with Mr. Moon’s government. It urged the South to stop obeying Washington and instead push ahead with inter-Korean joint economic projects that have been held back by American-led international sanctions.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byCanada LetterBy Ian AustenWe continued following the political turmoil in Ottawa  this week. But we also held a special event for subscribers on another matter of national importance: Canada’s relationship with China.Nearly 250 readers dialed in to a conference call whose host was Deborah Solomon, our economics editor in Washington. On the line was Dan Bilefsky, my colleague in Montreal; Chris Buckley, a Beijing correspondent; Katie Benner, who covers the United States Justice Department in Washington; and Raymond Zhong, a technology reporter also based in Beijing.They discussed the arrest of Meng Wanzhou, the chief financial officer of the Chinese electronics giant Huawei, who is under house arrest in Vancouver awaiting an extradition hearing that may see her sent to the United States to face fraud charges. They also talked about China’s arrest on spying charges of the Canadians Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor.And, of course, Canada-China relations in general came up.For those of you who missed it, here are some of the highlights of the conversation. They have been edited for conciseness and clarity:What are the next steps for the two Canadians being held in China?Raymond: Well the courts are controlled by the Communist Party. So the outcome for them in terms of the legal processes is going to depend quite heavily on the political situation. Whatever happens with Ms. Meng, it seems pretty likely to affect their outcome.What does the United States contend that Ms. Meng and Huawei have done?Katie: What is being alleged is that Huawei used one of its subsidiaries to secretly do business with Iran, which is subject to very stringent American sanctions.The government is alleging that Ms. Meng and others at the company basically hid the fact that money would be moving in and out of Iran and inveigled a lot of banks to do business with them in violation of sanctions.Those are extremely serious allegations.The question, though, is whether the United States government can convince the rest of the world, not only that Huawei evaded the sanctions, but also about a broader argument hat Huawei is too closely aligned with the Chinese government and that nobody should use its equipment. They’re holding the case with Meng up as a prime example of why the company can’t be trusted.Is Huawei connected or controlled by the Chinese government?Raymond: Huawei maintains it operates independently from the government. But the bigger backdrop here really is that China is not a country in which private companies can operate independently from the government. That’s true in informal ways.The operating environment in China is one in which companies have to listen to the government.In the middle of all this, President Trump has suggested that he’s trying to win a trade deal with China, and that the case against Huawei and Ms. Meng could potentially be dropped if it works in America’s interests. How is this complicating Canada’s willingness to extradite her?Dan:In terms of the legal questions regarding the extradition, that process is really a matter for the courts. It’s not a political matter.Now one of the arguments of Ms. Meng’s defense lawyers is that by making these comments, Mr. Trump has politicized the case and therefore the extradition should not proceed.But it’s quite rare for Canada to refuse extradition requests from the United States.How has this affected trade between Canada and China?Raymond: China imports certain things quite heavily from Canada, including canola oil. And last month there were reports that shipments of canola oil had been delayed or held up significantly at Chinese ports.The official Chinese line is that pests had been discovered in the shipments. But almost everybody sees it as another swipe at Canada in connection to the Huawei situation.But the trading relationship and the relationship between the people in the two countries seems to be quite vibrant. There’s a new Canada Goose flagship store that opened in Beijing not far from The New York Times bureau. And I can report that people seem to be pretty happy to keep buying Canada Goose.Is China pushing Canada around because the Chinese leadership considers the Canadian government weak? I suspect China would be dealing with the United States in a qualitatively different manner.Chris: And if Canada is feeling pressure from China then they’re joining a queue of other middleweight countries that have also had similar tensions recently.I think China does have a sort of a very realistic view of the world in which the United States is seen as too big to take on in the same way as, say, Canada or other countries of similar size.—After nearly two months of political turmoil, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is trying to get Canadians to talk about something, anything else. His effort was not off to a wholly successful start.—In Food, Sara Bonisteel took a look at Nanaimo bars. And, no, she didn’t use it as an opportunity to repeat the hoary old, and unflattering to their namesake community, joke about what’s in them.—Edith Iglauer first came to Canada to tell readers of The New Yorker about the country. She ended up becoming part of the nation’s literary fabric.—Beehives in Vancouver are doing double duty as pollution detectors.—In a dramatic break from the past, Canada is publicly airing doubts about how the United States declares airplanes fit for flight.—“Somehow we must stop this carnage on our highways,” a judge in Saskatchewan said as she sentenced the truck driver whose inattention led to the crash of the Humboldt Broncos team bus killing 16 people and injuring 13 others.—He’s only 17 years old and he’s not eligible for the N.H.L. draft until next year but Alexis Lafrenière is already being equated with one of hockey’s giants.—There was a time when safety features in cars, including seatbelts, were options. That’s still the case with Boeing 737 Max planes and the airlines that owned the two involved in recent fatal crashes. —Bruce Pollin wandered around Prospect Park in Brooklyn with 100 pounds of photographic gear, including a camera that makes 8 by 10 inch negatives. The result is a series of remarkable, idyllic portraits.A native of Windsor, Ontario, Ian Austen was educated in Toronto, lives in Ottawa and has reported about Canada for The New York Times for the past 15 years. Follow him on Twitter at @ianrausten.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to nytcanada@nytimes.com. And if you haven’t done so, please subscribe to the email newsletter version.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian AustenOTTAWA — The top political adviser to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada resigned on Monday, deepening a political crisis over allegations the government tried to interfere in a criminal court case.In a statement announcing his departure, Gerald Butts, who has been a close friend of Mr. Trudeau’s since their university days, linked his leaving to the allegations that he, the prime minister and others improperly pressured Jody Wilson-Raybould, when she was the justice minister and attorney general, to quash the criminal prosecution of a major Canadian engineering and construction company.Mr. Butts repeatedly denied in his resignation letter that any such action took place.“Any accusation that I or the staff put pressure on the attorney general is simply not true,” Mr. Butts wrote. “But the fact is that this accusation exists. It cannot and should not take one moment away from the vital work the prime minister and his office is doing for all Canadians.”He added: “It is in the best interests of the office and its important work for me to step away.”His resignation came a week after Ms. Wilson-Raybould resigned from the Trudeau cabinet. In January, she had been moved from the post of justice minister to minister of veteran’s affairs, a switch widely seen as a demotion.Rather than calming the growing political storm around Mr. Trudeau, Mr. Butts’s resignation only seemed to intensify it.“It opens up another front,” said Patrick Gossage, who was press secretary to Pierre Elliott Trudeau, the former prime minister and Justin Trudeau’s father. “It raises more questions than it answers. Did he really have nothing to do with making Jody Wilson-Raybould feel she wasn’t wanted? I don’t think it solves anything.”[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]Mr. Butts’s absence will leave a significant void in Mr. Trudeau’s leadership and campaign team just eight months before an election. The son of a coal miner from Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, Mr. Butts met Mr. Trudeau at the debating club at McGill University in Montreal and the two have remained friends ever since.After working as a senior aide in a Liberal provincial government in Ontario, Mr. Butts was among a small group who brought Mr. Trudeau, a teacher, into politics and taught him its craft. Mr. Butts was a key player in the successful election campaign in 2015 that defied expectations by raising the Liberals from third place in polls to victory, making Mr. Trudeau prime minister.Since then, Mr. Butts has acted as Mr. Trudeau’s principal secretary and was widely viewed as the most powerful player within the prime minister’s office. He was known for aggressively challenging critics of the government on Twitter.Mr. Gossage said the loss of Mr. Butts’s guidance is a significant blow for Mr. Trudeau and the Liberal Party.“The last year before an election, you don’t leave your boss behind,” Mr. Gossage said.The allegations of government interference in the criminal case first surfaced in a Globe and Mail article that cited anonymous sources. According to the newspaper, the prime minister and his staff pushed Ms. Wilson-Raybould to cut a deal for the company, SNC-Lavalin. A Montreal-based engineering and construction firm, SNC-Lavalin was accused of paying multimillion bribes to secure contracts in Libya when that country was ruled by the dictator Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.A criminal conviction would bar the company, which has about 52,000 employees worldwide, from working for the government of Canada for 10 years. It was feared that could harm SNC-Lavalin financially or leave it vulnerable to a foreign takeover.Mr. Trudeau’s office confirmed last week that Ms. Wilson-Raybould brought the case up in a conversation with Mr. Butts, but declined to offer any details about what was said.In the end federal prosecutors, who in Canada’s system are supposed to be independent of politicians, decided to continue to prosecute the company rather than seek a settlement under a new law introduced by Mr. Trudeau’s government last March. That measure allows companies to pay a substantial fine and show that they have resolved their ethics issues to avoid a criminal conviction. Two successive premiers in Quebec have called for such a deal to be struck.Last week, the episode went from involving only anonymous allegations to a major political challenge when the federal ethics commissioner, Mario Dion, said he would investigate the prime minister’s actions.Since her resignation, Ms. Wilson-Raybould has neither said anything about the affair nor offered an explanation for why she left the government. Pointing to her demotion, then sudden departure, opposition politicians have charged, without offering any proof, that she was being punished for not yielding on the SNC-Lavalin case.In his resignation letter, Mr. Butts noted that he had encouraged Ms. Wilson-Raybould, a former prosecutor and Indigenous leader from British Columbia, to enter politics.“From my perspective our relationship has always been defined by mutual respect, candor and an honest desire to work together,” he wrote.Follow Ian Austen on Twittter: @ianrausten.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe party is getting more serious about helping both the poor and true middle class.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.The economic plans offered by potential 2020 Democratic presidential candidates are much more targeted at low-income households than Barack Obama’s proposed tax cut in 2008.Pct. of benefits goingto each income groupBottom 50%50th to 90th percentileTop 10%96%Kamala Harris housing plan93Cory Booker housing plan8613Sherrod Brown tax cutS. Brown/Michael Bennetchild allowance77237624Kamala Harris tax cut6138Elizabeth Warren child careObama 2008 tax cut365212Pct. of benefits goingto each income groupBottom 50%50th to 90th percentileTop 10%Kamala Harris housing plan96%4Cory Booker housing plan937Sherrod Brown tax cut8613S. Brown/Michael Bennetchild allowance7723Kamala Harris tax cut7624Elizabeth Warren child care6138Obama 2008 tax cut365212Sources: Center on Poverty and Social Policy at Columbia University; Moody’s Analytics (Warren plan); Tax Policy Center (Obama plan)By The New York TimesI mentioned in my column this week that Democrats seem to be getting more serious about fighting poverty. The chart above helps make that clear. It shows the percentage of federal dollars that would go to different income groups in the various economic proposals from Democratic presidential candidates and potential candidates. For comparison, you also see a breakdown of the tax plan that Barack Obama proposed when he ran for president in 2008.The pattern is quite clear. This year’s candidates are targeting their plans much more at the bottom half of the income distribution. And they’re calling for less spending that would help the top 10 percent of earners. “Reducing poverty and inequality is developing into a central issue in the conversation around the 2020 presidential election,” note the researchers at Columbia University’s Center on Poverty and Social Policy.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]This approach is consistent with reality: The bottom 90 percent of earners have fared much worse than the top 10 percent in recent decades.For more …Vox’s Dylan Matthews writes that the rent-subsidy plans from Cory Booker and Kamala Harris are “especially well targeted at poor people.” That’s partly because, unlike many other anti-poverty plans, they help those people who don’t have children and who aren’t working, perhaps because they’re disabled or elderly, Matthews explains.Time’s Abby Vesoulis explains the Bennet-Brown child allowance. Mark Zandi of Moody’s Analytics has analyzed Elizabeth Warren’s child-care plan, which was also the subject of praise from David Plotz on the most recent Slate Political Gabfest (shortly after minute 26:00).Joe Biden seems to be taking steps toward announcing his own presidential campaign, as Hanna Trudo of National Journal reports. Biden said yesterday that he was “very close to getting to a decision” and that his family wants him in: The “most important people in my life want me to run,” he said. If he does, I’ll be interested to see how he plans to take on poverty.Finally, it’s worth saying that the Obama administration did take poverty seriously. Its signature piece of legislation — the Affordable Care Act — was the biggest attack on economic inequality since inequality began rising four decades ago. But the latest round of Democrats are putting even more of an emphasis on fighting poverty and on helping the true middle class (as opposed to the self-identified upper middle class). That’s a welcome development.Michael Cohen dayMichael Cohen, Donald Trump’s former lawyer, testifies before Congress today, and it’s sure to be a political spectacle. Will it matter? On the one hand, many Americans have already made up their minds about Trump, and the testimony of a former aide who’s pleaded guilty to lying under oath isn’t going to change their minds. In National Review, David French makes the case for skepticism about Cohen’s information. “Corroboration is key,” he writes. Cohen’s “credibility increases when he can support his story with documents, with recordings, or even with other witnesses.”On the other hand, Cohen’s testimony is going to paint Trump in an extremely negative light — as a liar, a racist and a criminal conspirator — and will dominate television and social media today. As the political scientist Jonathan Bernstein points out: “Lots of people will be hearing about this stuff for the first time. And sometimes hearing it from a person testifying is different from learning of it from news reports.”If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ana Vanessa Herrero, Nicholas Casey and Katie RogersCARACAS, Venezuela — Juan Guaidó, the Venezuelan opposition leader, returned to the country on Monday and gave a speech before cheering crowds in defiance of President Nicolás Maduro, who had threatened to have him arrested if he came back.“We shout with resolve, ‘may oppression die,’” said Mr. Guaidó before supporters gathered in Caracas, the capital. “They threatened us with jail, with death, but nothing will happen through persecution.”For days, it had been unclear whether Mr. Guaidó would be able to return to Venezuela after he flouted a court-imposed order not to leave the country and made a failed attempt to move truckloads of aid into the country over Mr. Maduro’s objections.When he arrived at the Simon Bolívar Airport near Caracas on Monday, after more than a week abroad, his supporters celebrated around him, hopeful he would breathe new life into the opposition’s movement to topple Mr. Maduro.While Mr. Maduro has jailed his opponents freely in the past, he made no attempts on Monday to impede Mr. Guaidó, showing what analysts said were the limits to his ability to dispatch the opposition with a crackdown.“We saw clearly that the government understands the danger in arresting Guaidó,” said Dimitris Pantoulas, a political analyst in Caracas. “This could generate tremendous violence in Venezuela. The government is now going to have to hope that his protests simply peter out.”Mr. Guaidó, who had spent the last week on a tour of South America, returned with the renewed backing of regional allies, many of whom sent diplomats to meet him at the airport. As he departed for Venezuela on a flight from Panama, the Trump administration warned Mr. Maduro’s government to take no action against him.“Any threats, violence, or intimidation against him will not be tolerated & will be met with swift response,” Vice President Mike Pence wrote on Twitter on Monday. “The world is watching — Interim President Guaidó must be allowed to re-enter Venezuela safely.”Still, some warned Mr. Guaidó remains in danger in Venezuela.“Of course, getting to Caracas accompanied by diplomatic officials doesn’t mean he won’t be arrested in the coming days,” said David Smilde, a senior analyst at the Washington Office on Latin America.The United States is one of the more than 50 countries that recognize Mr. Guaidó as Venezuela’s rightful president until new elections can be held. Several countries sent diplomatic representatives to the airport to safeguard Mr. Guaidó’s arrival.Mr. Guaidó, 35, has become the biggest challenge yet to Mr. Maduro’s embattled presidency since he declared himself interim president in January on grounds that Mr. Maduro won a second term through fraud.The struggle between the two has intensified as Venezuela, once Latin America’s most prosperous nation, has slid into its worst economic crisis, with Mr. Maduro accused by critics of corruption and mismanagement. Food shortages are acute, the health care system has collapsed and more than three million Venezuelans have fled.Mr. Maduro has called Mr. Guaidó a lackey of the Trump administration and attributed the country’s economic malaise to American sanctions, which have been intensified by President Trump.Mr. Guaidó landed around noon local time and was mobbed by large crowds of well-wishers shouting his name and waving flags. The arrivals terminal echoed with chants of “libertad,” and “sí se puede,” or “freedom” and “yes we can” in Spanish.The United States joined European and Latin American countries in sending diplomats to put pressure on the Venezuelan government not to arrest Mr. Guaidó.“We have the hope that he has a safe return so he can continue with his role as president of the National Assembly,” said Daniel Kriener, the German ambassador to Venezuela, to journalists in the airport.Mr. Guaidó had called for demonstrators to hold large rallies throughout the country, and scores of supporters gathered in a plaza to await his arrival.“I hope they make the mistake of arresting them,” said Carmen Herrera, who was selling Venezuelan flags to demonstrators, saying it was unlikely the government would succeed if they detained him. “I am against Maduro.”American officials have said they remain vigilant of Mr. Guaidó’s safety.On Sunday, John R. Bolton, the White House national security adviser, said on Twitter that an arrest of Mr. Guaidó would be met with a response “from the United States and the international community.” On Monday, administration officials said they were also cracking down on Cuba by tightening the economic embargo against the island — a move viewed as symbolic, but aimed at Cuba’s support for Venezuela.Over the weekend, Mr. Bolton appeared in several television shows and explained the administration’s approach to Venezuela. He emphasized building a coalition to replace Mr. Maduro over providing help to Venezuelan citizens displaced by the turmoil.Despite ramping up forceful rhetoric, Trump administration officials have stayed away from the idea of military intervention in recent days, instead focusing on economic sanctions they hope will help weaken Mr. Maduro and his supporters.On Friday, Elliott Abrams, the administration’s top envoy to Venezuela, announced new visa restrictions on “dozens” of people close to Mr. Maduro.Mr. Guaidó left Venezuela surreptitiously on Feb. 23 to help direct an effort to bring truckloads of emergency aid into Venezuela via border crossings in Colombia and Brazil. The effort was blocked by Mr. Maduro’s armed forces and other loyalists, and left Mr. Guaidó afoul of the law in Venezuela, where he faced a travel ban.The restriction had been imposed by the country’s Supreme Court last month after the Venezuelan attorney general asked for an investigation of “violent occurrences” that happened before Mr. Guaidó challenged Mr. Maduro’s legitimacy.Last week, Juan Carlos Valdéz, an auxiliary judge on the Supreme Court, told Russia’s Sputnik news service that Mr. Guaidó could face a 30-year prison sentence for having left the country.An earlier version of this article misidentified the Venezuelan political leader who risked detention by security forces. As stated elsewhere in the article, it was Juan Guaidó, not Nicolas Maduro.Ana Vanessa Herrero reported from Caracas, Nicholas Casey from Santiago, Chile, and Katie Rogers from Washington. Ernesto Londoño contributed reporting from Rio de Janeiro and Rick Gladstone from New York.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Annie KarniWASHINGTON — President Trump will have just wrapped up the first day of his summit meeting in Vietnam with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, when back home in Washington, Michael D. Cohen, his former lawyer and fixer, takes the stand on Wednesday morning to testify publicly against him before the House Oversight Committee.Two nearly simultaneous events and two very different story lines for Mr. Trump. One involves a leader he has assiduously courted and hopes will provide him with, at the minimum, an example of his ability to make peace with the United States’ adversaries. The other involves a former associate who has already detailed the president’s secrets to the special counsel and now will share some of them with the American public.The clashing narratives follow what has become a frustrating pattern for Mr. Trump in which some of his biggest moments on the international stage have been overtaken by events at home. Foreign trips mark critical moments for every president. But for a president in search of evidence to support his claims that he has strengthened the United States’ position in the world, they have not always been the successes he had hoped to portray.From his first foreign trip as president — to Saudi Arabia in 2017 — to his meeting last summer with Queen Elizabeth II, Mr. Trump has often found himself competing for coverage with some new and dramatic turn in the scandals that have consumed his administration.On that inaugural trip, Mr. Trump left the White House for Riyadh, the Saudi capital, just as The New York Times reported that he had admitted to Russians in an Oval Office meeting that firing the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, took “great pressure” off him. The Washington Post then reported that a sitting White House official was under federal investigation for possibly colluding with the Russians during the 2016 presidential campaign.Mr. Trump was preparing to depart on a marathon five-country tour of Asia in November 2017 when the special counsel’s office made its first bombshell indictments, bringing charges against his former campaign manager, Paul Manafort, as well as two other campaign associates, Rick Gates and George Papadopoulos. The president was in Davos, Switzerland, when The Times reported that Mr. Trump had ordered the firing of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is overseeing the Russia investigation, and had backed down only when the White House counsel threatened to resign.And an honor guard was giving Mr. Trump a royal salute at Windsor Castle in July when his deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, announced the indictment of 12 Russian intelligence officers in the hacking of the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign.For Mr. Trump, who is particularly concerned with winning news cycles, the summit meeting with Mr. Kim in Hanoi, Vietnam’s capital, that begins Wednesday is a major opportunity to change the subject from his losing fight with Democrats over funding for a wall along the southwestern border.But at 10 p.m. that day in Hanoi, the counternarrative will begin when Mr. Cohen starts his testimony before the House Oversight Committee about Mr. Trump’s alleged payoffs, financial disclosures, compliance with campaign finance laws and business matters. He is also expected to deliver raw, personal stories of his 10 years serving Mr. Trump.And this time, coverage of Mr. Trump’s trip abroad is not threatened to be subsumed by news reports, or by the findings of his own Justice Department, but by a Democrat-dominated congressional committee.White House officials said House Democrats were deliberately trying to step on the summit meeting. Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, said the overlapping events were no coincidence. “After all, they are politicians,” he said in a text.A spokesman for the committee chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, did not respond to multiple requests for comment about whether the scheduling of the hearing on the same day as the meeting was done intentionally.But Lanny J. Davis, a lawyer for Mr. Cohen, said the timing was unintentional. “These dates were developed over a long period of time, with lots of stops and starts and delays,” Mr. Davis said. “We had to worry about being attacked with Trump tweets. Trump set up the first reason for the delay.”The overlapping events, he added, were “the inevitable result of having chaos every day.”And, in fact, Mr. Cohen’s testimony was rescheduled, after he postponed it twice.White House officials played down any anxiety that Mr. Cohen’s testimony would steal the spotlight from Mr. Trump. One senior administration official described Mr. Cohen as a “convicted criminal who has already lied to Congress” and said that the clear headliner of the day would be a president who is “trying to undo 70 years of war and neglect.”There is also the question of which news outlets will interrupt coverage of the meeting between the president and Mr. Kim for Mr. Cohen’s hearing. Fox News has already touted an exclusive post-meeting interview with Mr. Trump, conducted by Sean Hannity, the cable news host, as part of its extensive coverage of the event.Other current and former White House officials said they saw a silver lining: The president tends to spend less time on Twitter when he is busy overseas, where he is less consumed by any developments pertaining to the open investigations. Mr. Cohen’s testimony, which might have had Mr. Trump glued to his television in the dining room off the Oval Office if he were home, they said, could pack less punch if he is busy with Mr. Kim.Still, even people who are not natural supporters of Mr. Trump said the timing of Mr. Cohen’s hearing was unfortunate, whether it was avoidable or not. “It’s not a desirable thing that the president goes abroad and, while he’s having an international summit, his former lawyer is testifying about the alleged crimes he’s committed,” said Benjamin Wittes, the editor in chief of Lawfare, and a friend of Mr. Comey’s.The pattern, some critics of the president said, is simply a product of the number of investigations involving Mr. Trump, which have overshadowed his work both at home and abroad.“When your campaign, your transition, your charity, your business, your White House and your inaugural committee are all under investigation, there are going to be a lot of new developments,” said Matthew Miller, a former spokesman for the Obama Justice Department.For now, the White House is trying to shrug off the overlap.“I don’t think the president has any concerns whatsoever about Michael Cohen,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said last week on “Fox & Friends.” “I think Michael Cohen may need to be concerned for himself, but that’s certainly something that’s not influencing or bothering us in this building.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Anatoly Kurmanaev and Isayen HerreraCARACAS, Venezuela — The Red Cross said Friday it had received permission from Venezuela’s government and opposition to roll out one of the organization’s biggest global relief campaigns, signaling a possible easing in the dire humanitarian emergency gripping the country.The announcement amounted to the first tacit acknowledgment by the government of Nicolás Maduro that Venezuelans are suffering from lack of food and other basics.In scale and ambition, the relief effort could become an “operation very similar to what is happening in Syria,” said Francesco Rocca, the president of the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, to reporters in Caracas on Friday. “It obviously will not and cannot solve the country’s problems, but it’s a necessary step to save lives.”Mr. Maduro had repeatedly denied that the country needed help, even as the economy hurtled toward collapse. The crisis has led to an explosion of malnutrition and infant mortality, a resurgence of nearly eradicated diseases and the biggest refugee crisis in South America, as hundreds of thousands of Venezuelans fled.[Update: As Venezuelan economy unravels, Maduro opponents hope downturn will topple him.]The Red Cross said a diplomatic waiver granted by Mr. Maduro would allow it to begin delivery of medical supplies as soon as mid-April. The organization’s local affiliate runs hospitals in Venezuela, but until now the organization has not been allowed to operate a national humanitarian aid-delivery campaign. Its Panama warehouse has already began procurement for the Venezuelan mission, the organization said.Now, the Red Cross will double its budget for Venezuela to an equivalent of at least $60 million this year, hoping to reach about 650,000 Venezuelans and stimulate a new wave of donations that would finance a further expansion of the campaign later in the year.“We’re open to all the donors,” said Mr. Rocca. “We’re ready to negotiate with everyone.”As Venezuela’s economic travails have worsened over the past few months, both Mr. Maduro and the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, have attempted to control supplies of aid for political advantage. Mr. Maduro and Mr. Guaidó have been locked in a power struggle since Mr. Guaidó proclaimed himself president with support of the United States and about 50 other countries in late January.Mr. Maduro has used food distribution and access to medical care as tools to ensure his support among the needy population. His government stopped publishing any health statistics in 2016, while denying the country needed any aid.“In Venezuela’s there’s no humanitarian crisis,” Foreign Minister Jorge Arreaza told the United Nations in February.Venezuela’s aid predicament has mirrored the international alliances forged by the competing sides. The United States and the European Union nations have become the main donors for humanitarian projects launched by Mr. Guaidó. China and Russia have delivered relief supplies to Mr. Maduro.Mr. Guaidó has opened three aid depots on Venezuela’s borders in Colombia, Brazil and Curacao, which have collected at least $100 million worth of supplies donated by the United States Agency for International Development and other allies. Mr. Maduro called the USAID supplies a “Trojan horse” aimed at toppling his government and has vowed to prevent it from entering the country. His vice president, Delcy Rodriguez, even called the opposition’s supplies “cancerous.”Mr. Guaidó’s plan to bring basic supplies into Venezuela in February, intended to help the population but also to bolster his standing and discredit Mr. Maduro, was stymied by Mr. Maduro’s armed forces and paramilitaries. At least seven people were killed and dozens were seriously injured during the chaotic and inconclusive standoff along the country’s border.The Red Cross said its relief in Venezuela will not be linked to any political parties.To maintain impartiality, the Red Cross said supplies such as surgical kits and basic medication will initially be delivered directly to the eight hospitals that the organization owns in Venezuela, bypassing the government’s distribution networks. The organization also aims to equip all Venezuelan hospitals with power generators to reduce the number of deaths caused by the rolling blackouts affecting the country.Mr. Rocca said the organizations would also consider distributing medical donations collected by the opposition in Cúcuta, Colombia, if they met their standards.The Red Cross was granted the permission after personal meetings with Mr. Maduro and Mr. Guaidó, said a person involved in negotiations, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss confidential talks.The announcement comes days after the United Nations made a confidential plea to the country’s two rival leaders to end their political dispute over aid, pointing out that nearly all of the country’s population of 32 million has been thrust into poverty.Multilateral organizations, including those affiliated with the United Nations and the Catholic Church, have been quietly ramping up their operations in Venezuela in recent months with unspoken agreement from the government. The deal reached by the Red Cross allows it to become the first global relief organization to launch an official campaign inside Venezuela.Now that the Red Cross has been allowed in, both the government and the opposition have sought to take credit for the decision.“Humanitarian aid is a fact today and in the next hours, next days, we will be receiving important medical help to contain this tragedy,” Mr. Guaidó said in a video address posted on social media Friday. “The government has recognized its failure in accepting the existence of a humanitarian emergency.”The government, for its part, on Friday announced the arrival of a ship carrying medication from China.But by granting Red Cross a humanitarian mandate, Mr. Maduro is exposing what critics call the hypocrisy of his social policy, said José Félix Oletta, a former Venezuelan health minister.“It’s absurd to have blocked for two years the entrance of these resources,” he said. “They are now indicating that they don’t have capacity to resolve this.”The Red Cross announcement also presents a challenge for the opposition, which has sought to present itself as the solution to the country’s humanitarian needs.Advertisement
The streets were calm in the center of Caracas the day after opposition lawmaker Juan Guaidó proclaimed himself the country’s rightful leader, last week.CreditCreditMeridith Kohut for The New York TimesSupported byBy Ana Vanessa Herrero and Megan SpeciaCARACAS, Venezuela — Venezuela is on the brink. Grocery shelves lie empty as food becomes increasingly scarce and expensive. People are fleeing the country at record rates, flooding neighboring countries. Inflation is set to reach 10 million percent in 2019.In this landscape of desperation, public outrage was already coming to a head when last week, Juan Guaidó, the opposition leader and head of the National Assembly, declared himself interim president. The recently re-elected President Nicolás Maduro has vowed to continue on. International attention swiftly turned to the two men at the center of the struggle for control of the country. But in the midst of the political push-and-pull, average Venezuelans are still struggling to get by in a country that has grown increasingly violent and where food shortages, electricity cuts and water shortages are the new normal. Deadly crackdowns on dissent are regular. Anti-government demonstrations are planned for Caracas on Saturday, and with discontent growing, new groups are taking to the streets, including those who were once staunch supporters of Mr. Maduro and his predecessor, Hugo Chávez.We asked residents of the city to describe what their living situation is like these days, and if it is a factor driving them to take part in the demonstrations. The government benefits that Mrs. Donawa and her family have long relied on — like many of those from poor neighborhoods of Caracas — are no longer enough. “We are starving here,” she said, describing how she and her son Dixon Bront are struggling to provide for her grandchildren. “He has a 9-year-old daughter and a 17-year-old boy, and he can’t buy anything for them. This is becoming impossible.”Mrs. Donawa never voted for Mr. Maduro or Mr. Chávez, but her son was a supporter of the socialist government.“I don’t know if he voted for Chávez, but he sympathized with him,” she said. Mr. Bront and Mrs. Donawa are beneficiaries of several government programs like Misión Vivienda, which provides housing for the poor, and a food distribution program known as “CLAP.” But Mrs. Donawa said the government food box is often limited to sugar, pasta and powdered milk. As benefits have deteriorated, Mr. Bront, once a supporter of the government, decided to join the protesters calling for its demise. Two weeks ago, he was injured during demonstrations — shot in the stomach at close range by security forces — and is now bedridden after two surgeries, putting a further strain on the family.“I can’t be here in a hospital, sleeping in a chair,” Mrs. Donawa said from her son’s bedside. “It’s not that I do not agree with him protesting, he is doing it like any other Venezuelan that is unhappy with this communist government.”“It is like the world opens in half and you just want to jump into the crack,” said Mrs. Cedeño, describing how she felt six years ago when she first found out her son, Miguel, had leukemia.Things were still manageable then. Her son was moved from a private hospital to the public Central Hospital of Venezuela where he was given medical treatment paid for by the state.He went into remission for years, but in 2017, Miguel’s cancer returned. That’s when, Mrs. Cedeño said, everything changed. It was a race against time to get him proper treatment.“I had to buy everything,” she said. “The chemotherapy, the antibiotics, the needles. But now it’s even worse. I have to buy gloves, cotton, alcohol, water, even the tubes for the lab if I need to ask for a blood test.”Venezuela’s main hospital has become a symbol of the catastrophic unraveling of the country’s health care system. It is often without running water, medicine and even doctors. The electricity regularly cuts out, which has resulted in patient deaths, opposition politicians say. Mrs. Cedeño said she has never been a fan of the protests, but her son has told her he is eager to attend them. “He said, ‘Mom, I want to go out and make them feel the rage I feel everyday I am at this hospital without any help,’” she said.Mr. Balza, 35, was a captain in the Venezuelan National Guard and quickly moved up the ranks, gaining the trust of officials who grew to rely on him, including Nicolás Maduro Guerra, President Maduro’s son. But he didn’t always support the decisions of his superiors.“I never agreed with their lines, ever,” he said. Two years ago, he fled Venezuela for the United States, where he now manages a company. Mr. Guaidó, as interim president, has proposed amnesty for members of the armed forces who are willing to break with Mr. Maduro’s government, but Mr. Barza is unsure whether he will return.“I worked from the inside against the government,” Mr. Barza said, adding that he didn’t necessarily think he needed to ask for amnesty. While he would like to get involved with some of the protests being held in the United States, he doesn’t have time with his busy work schedule. But for the first time in years, he sees a way forward for his country. “I have faith and hope,” he said.Mrs. Añez knows what the government’s crackdown on dissent looks like. She was arrested in May 2017, accused of involvement with groups organizing daily anti-government protests. “I gave them food, I offered them shelter,” she said. “That is why they call me mamá.”For 118 days, she was held in a windowless room with another woman accused of gas smuggling. After the protests ended that year, Mrs. Añez couldn’t go back to her old life, saying being in jail had changed her. “I can only tell you I am a better person now, and that I also knew true evil,” she said. Since the latest round of protests began last month, Mrs. Añez has scavenged for supplies for those wounded by the military and security forces. She has treated at least three protesters so far who were injured during recent demonstrations.Mrs. Añez said earlier protests in 2014 and 2017 were too violent and not effective.“Protests have to be like the one we had on the 23rd,” she said, referring to largely peaceful mass anti-government protests held the day Mr. Guaidó swore himself in as interim president, “the kind that you can’t hide.”Born in Spain but raised in Venezuela, Mr. Zugasti has been active in the opposition protest movement since Mr. Maduro first came to power in 2013. He plans to join the large demonstrations planned this weekend. “This Saturday, I will be out there with my gas mask, my helmet and vest, to see what I can show the world,” he said. Mr. Zugasti owned a family printing company for two decades, which enabled him to provide for his family. But profits dwindled, and in 2018, he closed the business.He said new people from different walks of life have been joining the recent protests. Before, he said, the movement was largely driven by the middle and upper classes.“I used to see the same face every day, now it’s different,” he said.Mr. Zugasti takes his camera with him when he protests, and took one especially memorable photo on April 4, 2017, of a young congressman confronting police who were blocking a march on Libertador Avenue.He didn’t know it then but the politician in the photo was Mr. Guaidó, who would become a major player in the country’s current political standoff. “Every time I hear that he is someone that just started in politics, I know it’s not true,” Mr. Zugasti said. “He was always on the front line during protests. I remember him at every demonstration I went to.” Megan Specia is a story editor on the International Desk, specializing in digital storytelling and breaking news.  @meganspecia Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Mark Mazzetti and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — He has spent months inside his Park Avenue apartment glued to cable news, his legal bills growing and federal prosecutors amassing evidence against him they would use as leverage.He watched his onetime friend and former boss, now the president of the United States, smear him on Twitter and make vague, public threats about his family.His work for Donald J. Trump, and the lies he told about it, are sending him to prison for years.On Tuesday, his law license was revoked.On Wednesday, Michael D. Cohen exacted his revenge.It was a nasty, public breakup of a New York relationship forged over a decade that was a mix of the bond between a father and son, the professional distance of a lawyer and client, and — as Mr. Cohen and associates have described it — the blind devotion of a henchman to a crime boss.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Alexandra Leigh Young and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa TobinIn an extraordinary public hearing, Donald Trump’s former fixer — once known for being unflinchingly loyal — became the star witness against him.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Michael Cohen is headed to prison for lying on behalf of Donald Trump. Yesterday, he told Congress he’s done protecting the president. It’s Thursday, February 28. Maggie Haberman, how does this hearing actually begin on Wednesday morning?maggie habermanThe hearing began in very dramatic fashion with Elijah Cummings, who chairs the committee, a Democrat, holding the gavel. Michael Cohen walking in through this crush of photographers and reporters, trailed by Lanny Davis, his attorney and sometimes spokesman, trailed by another of his attorneys, not by any member of his family, who I believe he was worried about attending this hearing. He sat down. His face was wan. His eyes were puffy. He looked exhausted, and defeated, and beaten down. And you could hear a pin drop as he sat down.archived recording (elijah cummings)The committee will come to order.maggie habermanSo Cummings out of the gate —archived recording (elijah cummings)I now recognize myself for five minutes to give an opening statement.maggie haberman— addressed the issue of Michael Cohen’s credibility.archived recording (elijah cummings)He admitted to lying about his actions to protect the president. Some will certainly ask, if Mr. Cohen was lying then, why should we believe him now?archived recordingGood question.archived recording (elijah cummings)This is a legitimate question.maggie habermanIt was very clear that Republicans were going to go right at Cohen, accusing him of being a liar, somebody who has admitted to lying, including admitting to lying to Congress when he gave testimony before them in 2017. So Cummings was hoping to put that to bed at the outset.archived recording (elijah cummings)This is an important factor we need to weigh. But we must weigh it, and we must hear from him.michael barbaroAnd Maggie, I found it fascinating what Cummings did at the close of this opening statement. He delivers this message straight to Cohen.archived recording (elijah cummings)Martin Luther King, Mr. Cohen, said some words that I leave with you today before you testify. He said, faith is taking the first step, even when you can’t see the whole staircase. There comes a time when silence becomes betrayal. Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that truly matter. In the end, he says, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.maggie habermanAnd with that quote, he’s trying to set up Michael Cohen’s testimony — why he’s being truthful, that what he said before is a lie, and what he is saying now is the truth. And this was important for him to set this out as a way forward as the hearing began.archived recording (elijah cummings)Raise your right hand. Do you swear or affirm that the testimony that you are about to give is the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God? Let the record show that the witness answered in the affirmative. And thank you, and you may be seated.maggie habermanSo then Michael Cohen begins his opening statement. And it was long.archived recording (michael cohen)I hope my appearance here today, my guilty plea and my work with law enforcement agencies are steps along a path of redemption that will restore faith in me and help this country understand our president better.maggie habermanAnd he began again by apologizing for lying to Congress.archived recording (michael cohen)I am here under oath to correct the record, to answer the committee’s questions truthfully and to offer the American people what I know about President Trump.maggie habermanAnd then he turned to Donald Trump.archived recording (michael cohen)I am ashamed that I chose to take part in concealing Mr. Trump’s illicit acts rather than listening to my own conscience. I am ashamed because I know what Mr. Trump is.maggie habermanAnd he depicted Donald Trump as a unsavory, unethical, immoral character.archived recording (michael cohen)Mr. Trump is a racist. The country has seen Mr. Trump court white supremacists and bigots. You have heard him call poorer countries [expletive]. In private, he is even worse. He once asked me if I can name a country run by a black person that wasn’t a [expletive]. This was when Barack Obama was president of the United States. And while we were once driving through a struggling neighborhood in Chicago, he commented that only black people could live that way. And he told me that black people would never vote for him because they were too stupid.maggie habermanSomebody who told him from the Oval Office, in an Oval Office meeting, that he would be sending him a reimbursement for hush money payments.archived recording (michael cohen)Trump is a con man. He asked me to pay off an adult film star with whom he had an affair and to lie about it to his wife, which I did. And lying to the first lady is one of my biggest regrets.maggie habermanHe portrayed Donald Trump as a cheat.archived recording (michael cohen)And it should come as no surprise that one of my more common responsibilities was that Mr. Trump directed me to call business owners, many of whom are small businesses, that were owed money for their services, and told them that no payment or a reduced payment would be coming. When I told Mr. Trump of my success, he actually reveled in it.maggie habermanAs a schemer, who would inflate his net worth or devalue it, depending on what was useful for him at various points.archived recording (michael cohen)It was my experience that Mr. Trump inflated his total assets when it served his purposes, such as trying to be listed amongst the wealthiest people in Forbes, and deflated his assets to reduce his real estate taxes.maggie habermanAt one point, Michael Cohen told a very detailed story of Donald Trump’s relationship to the Vietnam War. Remember that Donald Trump has said that he had a deferment from the draft because he had, quote, unquote, bone spurs.archived recording (michael cohen)But when I asked for medical records, he gave me none, and said that there was no surgery. He told me not to answer the specific questions by reporters, but rather, offer simply the fact that he received a medical deferment. He finished the conversation with the following comment: “Do you think I’m stupid? I’m not going to Vietnam.”maggie habermanAnd at that moment, Michael Cohen looked directly into the camera.archived recording (michael cohen)And I find it ironic, Mr. President, that you are in Vietnam right now.michael barbaroRight.maggie habermanIt was damning stuff.archived recording (michael cohen)A lot of people have asked me about whether Mr. Trump knew about the release of the hacked documents, the Democratic National Committee emails, ahead of time. And the answer is yes. In July of 2016, days before the Democratic Convention, I was in Mr. Trump’s office when his secretary announced that Roger Stone was on the phone. Mr. Trump put Mr. Stone on the speakerphone. Mr. Stone told Mr. Trump that he had just gotten off the phone with Julian Assange, and that Mr. Assange told Mr. Stone that within a couple of days there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Mr. Trump responded by stating to the effect, wouldn’t that be great.michael barbaroAnd then he brings up, of course, the now-infamous Moscow project.maggie habermanRight.archived recording (michael cohen)I lied to Congress when Mr. Trump stopped negotiating the Moscow tower project in Russia. I stated that we stopped negotiating in January of 2016. That was false. Our negotiations continued for months later during the campaign.maggie habermanHe says that there were, you know, a handful of these conversations that went on into 2016, when it was clear that Donald Trump was going to be the Republican nominee.archived recording (michael cohen)Mr. Trump did not directly tell me to lie to Congress. That’s not how he operates. In conversations we had during the campaign, at the same time I was actively negotiating in Russia for him, he would look me in the eye and tell me, “There’s no Russian business,” and then go on to lie to the American people by saying the same thing. In his way, he was telling me to lie. So to be clear, Mr. Trump knew of and directed the Trump Moscow negotiations throughout the campaign and lied about it.michael barbaroCohen’s almost describing, in this moment, a code, where, if Trump is saying to him, there is no Russia project, it’s almost like saying, there’s no Russia project, right? You’re never going to say there’s a Russia project. It’s like he’s trying to explain a foreign language in which Donald Trump is communicating to him, you should probably lie about this, without having to say it.maggie habermanThat’s exactly right. And he said that in his testimony, made very clear that this is how Donald Trump talks. He sort of knows where the line is, and he doesn’t speak overtly. It is what former federal prosecutors have described as mob speak, the style that mafia bosses speak in to avoid crossing a legal line. And while Michael Cohen did not explicitly say that part, he did say that Donald Trump spoke in a code and that Michael Cohen understood that code.archived recording (michael cohen)He doesn’t give you questions. He doesn’t give you orders. He speaks in a code. And I understand the code, because I’ve been around him for a decade.michael barbaroMaggie, did it come as a surprise to you to hear Michael Cohen saying any of this? You’ve known both of these men for years. And you’ve known them as a unit. What was it like to hear Cohen saying these things about Donald Trump?maggie habermanEven knowing that this was coming, it was mind-blowing hearing Michael Cohen saying this in public. No one who has worked for Trump in recent years has gone on the record to say things like this. And it was staggering. And it was so at odds with the portrait of fealty that Michael Cohen had presented with reporters, with everyone, toward Donald Trump over a decade.michael barbaroMm-hmm.maggie habermanAnd remember, Donald Trump creates an eagerness in people around him to get something of a head pat from him, to get an encouragement, to get an attaboy. Cohen got very skilled at trying for that attaboy.michael barbaroAnd seemed to be kind of addicted to it.maggie habermanAnd seemed to be addicted to it, seemed to revel in it, clearly reveled in his proximity.archived recording (michael cohen)Over the past year or so, I have done some real soul-searching. And I see now that my ambition and the intoxication of Trump power had much to do with the bad decisions, in part, that I made.maggie habermanHe was involved in taking care of messes that Donald Trump wanted taken care of. He was willing to do those things. One of them was payoffs to women. And the notion that somebody who was so closely involved in that would be willing to discuss it publicly, not just behind closed doors with investigators, not just as prosecutors were bearing down on him, but freely, in public, in a hearing, under oath, was just breathtaking.michael barbaroThere’s a moment where Cohen says to the members of the committee —archived recording (michael cohen)The last time I appeared before Congress, I came to protect Mr. Trump. Today —michael barbaroToday, I’m here to tell you the truth —archived recording (michael cohen)I am here to tell the truth about Mr. Trump.michael barbaro— about Mr. Trump. As if to say, the spell has been broken. I’m out of that world now. And I kind of wonder if that’s really possible, but also how it happened.maggie habermanWell, I think it is really possible, because I think their break has been so incredibly clean, given what has happened to Michael Cohen. Remember, when the F.B.I. raided his hotel and apartment and office in April of 2018, he was still standing by Trump. That clearly has changed. We saw Republicans argue that the reason that changed for Michael Cohen was because he was facing charges of his own. And the president has certainly suggested that. Cohen has been utterly stripped of everything that he valued, his business, his law license. He has been humiliated publicly. He has been abandoned by a lot of friends, and by the president, and by the president’s circle. And so I do think that it is certainly a real split. I think that people are going to have to assess, looking at his testimony, whether they think it’s a real conversion, but it’s definitely a real break.archived recording (michael cohen)I am not a perfect man. I have done things I am not proud of. And I will live with the consequences of my actions for the rest of my life. But today, I get to decide the example that I set for my children and how I attempt to change how history will remember me. I may not be able to change the past, but I can do right by the American people here today. And I thank you for your attention. And I’m happy to answer the committee’s questions.archived recording (elijah cummings)Thank you very much, Mr. Cohen. I now recognize myself.michael barbaroSo then the questions begin from the committee members.maggie habermanRight.archived recording (elijah cummings)You said you brought some checks, is that right?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, sir.maggie habermanAnd first we have Cummings asking Cohen to elaborate on the details of these reimbursement checks that he got, that he brought with him.archived recording (elijah cummings)So let me make sure I understand. Donald Trump wrote you a check out of his personal account while he was serving as president of the United States of America to reimburse you for hush money payments to Ms. Clifford, is that what you are telling the American people today?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, Mr. Chairman.maggie habermanAnd it was among the more dramatic moments that we saw. Because Cummings is getting to the fact that the sitting president was part of this scheme that was, at minimum, sleazy and illicit, and at maximum could have some criminal exposure. And they were leaving nothing to doubt as to what Cohen was saying took place.archived recording (elijah cummings)Is there any doubt in your mind that President Trump knew exactly what he was paying for?archived recording (michael cohen)There is no doubt in my mind. And I truly believe there is no doubt in the minds of the people of the United States of America.archived recording (elijah cummings)With that I’ll yield to —maggie habermanJim Jordan, another ally of the president, quoted something that Michael Cohen once said to a reporter from The Daily Beast.archived recording (jim jordan)“I will make sure that you and I meet one day while we’re in the courthouse and I will take you for every penny you still don’t have.”maggie habermanAnd this has now become a famous anecdote, where he threatened a reporter who was pursuing a story about an old court claim from the divorce filing between Ivana Trump and Donald Trump, where she had alleged marital rape. And Cohen said —archived recording (jim jordan)“And I will come after your Daily Beast and everybody else that you possibly know. So I’m warning you — ”maggie haberman“So I’m warning you, tread very f-ing lightly” — it wasn’t f-ing.archived recording (jim jordan)“Because what I’m going to do to you is going to be f-ing disgusting, you understand me?”maggie habermanAnd he was then asked by Jim Jordan, “Mr. Cohen, who said that?”archived recording (jim jordan)Mr. Cohen, who said that?archived recording (michael cohen)I did.maggie habermanAnd it’s an incident that I think he would say that he really was doing for Trump and not for himself. But it was a way to sully his character and create a portrait of thuggishness.archived recording (jim jordan)And did you say that, Mr. Cohen, was that statement that I just read that you admitted to saying, did you do that to protect Donald Trump?archived recording (michael cohen)I did it to protect Mr. Trump, Donald Trump, Jr., Ivanka Trump and Eric Trump.michael barbaroBut I wonder, who does it look worse for, the person who did it, or the person on whose behalf it was done?maggie habermanRight. I understand that Jim Jordan is trying to muddy Michael Cohen with that. But I think for most people, they are going to look at that, and especially after the president takes to Twitter and suggests that people ought to be looking into Michael Cohen’s family, I think most people are still going to see that as looking worse for Trump, because Michael Cohen was doing this as Trump’s lawyer.michael barbaroSo while Republicans are largely avoiding talking about the president at all costs in this hearing, in focusing on sullying Cohen’s character and reputation, they may be actually sullying President Trump’s.maggie habermanCorrect. They were essentially trying to peel Cohen off from Trump. And what became clear as their efforts went on throughout the hearing is that that is impossible to do. When you have had somebody serve as a lawyer for Donald Trump, so identified with him publicly over 10 years, you can’t take a shot at Cohen and not end up having it ricochet onto Trump too.archived recordingSo we’ve established that you lie on your taxes, you lie to banks, and you have been convicted of lying to Congress. It seems to me that there’s not much that you won’t lie about when you stand to gain from it.michael barbaroAnd where do the questions go from here?maggie habermanSo —archived recordingEverything’s been made of your lies in the past. I’m concerned about your lies today.maggie habermanAfter that it became a, you know —archived recordingBut there’s no truth with you whatsoever.maggie haberman— one by one, down the line, Republicans suggesting that Michael Cohen was —archived recordingLiar, liar, pants on fire.maggie habermanReally in it for the fame.archived recordingIs your appearance here today motivated by your desire to remain in the spotlight for your personal benefit?archived recording (michael cohen)No, ma’am.maggie habermanOr he was really in it for the money. They asked him —archived recordingIs there a book deal coming or anything like that?archived recording (michael cohen)I have no book deal right now.maggie habermanOne after the other about prospective book deals or movie deals.archived recordingIsn’t it true you tried to sell a book about your time with President Trump, entitled “Trump Revolution: From the Tower to the White House, Understanding Donald J. Trump“?archived recording (michael cohen)Yes, that happened —maggie habermanOr had he pitched a book of his own?michael barbaroAnd what did he say?maggie habermanHe said yes.archived recording (michael cohen)I have been contacted by many, including for television, a movie. If you want to tell me who you would like to play you, I’m more than happy to write the name down.michael barbaroAnd what about the Democrats?archived recording (elijah cummings)Mr. Raskin.archived recording (jamie raskin)Mr. Cohen, thank you for your composure today. Our colleagues are not upset because you lied to Congress for the president. They’re upset because you’ve stopped lying to Congress for the president.maggie habermanThe Democrats tried to keep it really mostly on Trump and the things that Michael Cohen did for Trump.archived recordingAnd nothing at the Trump Organization was ever done unless it was run through President Donald Trump, correct?archived recording (michael cohen)That’s 100 percent certain.archived recordingO.K.maggie habermanHe described, and it was really interesting, he described everybody as being solely devoted to protecting the brand and reputation of one man, Donald Trump. He said that nothing happened at the company unless Donald Trump was aware of it or signed off on it. He argued that Trump was a demanding and exacting and punishing boss. He described the entire effort as being about maximizing the gold-plated version of Donald Trump that we have all become very familiar with.archived recordingThere’s a recurring refrain in your testimony that says, and yet, I continued to work for him. But at some point you changed. What was the breaking point at which you decided to start telling the truth?archived recording (michael cohen)There are several factors — Helsinki, Charlottesville.maggie habermanHe went on this litany of moments that he said disgusted him. There were the president’s comments after Charlottesville, that it was, you know, various instance of discourteous behavior by the president, of untoward behavior toward citizens.archived recording (michael cohen)Watching the daily destruction of our civility to one another, putting up silly things like this.archived recordingOh, that’s silly.archived recording (michael cohen)Really unbecoming of Congress.maggie habermanHe clearly got angry. And then he sort of turned it back on Republicans and said to them, essentially —archived recording (michael cohen)It’s that sort of behavior that I’m responsible for. I’m responsible for your silliness. Because I did the same thing that you’re doing now, for 10 years. I protected Mr. Trump for 10 years.maggie habermanYou are what I was. You are all blindly following him. And there is a real risk to doing that, because you could end up like me someday.archived recording (michael cohen)And I can only warn people, the more people that follow Mr. Trump, as I did blindly, are going to suffer the same consequences that I’m suffering.maggie habermanIt was a gripping and captivating moment.michael barbaroRight, it was a sort of surprising level of self-awareness, and I guess also self-loathing too.maggie habermanIt was both. It was self-effacing. It was clearly uncomfortable. It was acknowledging that he is a deeply imperfect person who did imperfect things that he is not proud of, and he said a version of that earlier in the hearing. But it was really striking, because this is a comment that Republicans who opposed Donald Trump, and they’re not very many of them who are that vocal anymore, but that they have said repeatedly that the Republican Party has become a cult of personality, or just a cult. And that people just blindly follow along with what Donald Trump wants, whether it is wise or not, whether it is safe or not, and whether he is telling the truth or not. And that is what Cohen was getting at.archived recordingWhat do you want your children to know?archived recording (michael cohen)That I’m sorry for everything. And I’m sorry for the pain that I’ve caused them. And um — I wish I could go back in time.archived recordingThank you, I yield back.archived recording (elijah cummings)The gentlelady’s time has expired.michael barbaroMaggie, I wonder if you feel like you understand what’s motivating Michael Cohen throughout this hours-long hearing, to say what he’s saying, to concede what he’s conceding, to kind of humble himself the way he did. He’s been convicted of a crime. He’s headed to prison. He has been disbarred. What exactly is animating him at this point?maggie habermanI think a number of things are animating him. But I think among them is that he doesn’t want to be the leper of this story forever. He said months ago that he does not want to be the villain in the Trump story. And I think that’s how he feels. I think that he does not want to be remembered as this footnote in history. I think he’s going to prison. And I think he doesn’t have a whole lot left to lose. And I think that he would like to try to make people remember other things about him and tell a more nuanced tale.michael barbaroAnd so, what did this hearing, in your mind, achieve? How will this hearing be remembered in this larger story?maggie habermanI think this hearing is either going to be, on its own, just a breathtaking historical moment, the likes of which I don’t know if we’ll ever see again. But it was pretty striking to see. Or it is going to be the initial phases of a much broader, deeper governmental investigation by House Democrats into the Trump presidency, not just his own personal activities, but the activities of his government. And allowing Michael Cohen to have a setting where he talks about these things, and where he can be questioned, and where he is a key starting witness could be the first step in paving the way toward an impeachment process, if that is where Democrats go. If that ends up leading to something bigger, then Democrats will feel as if this was a key foundation for it. But it’s too early to say, I think.archived recording (michael cohen)I have some closing remarks I would like to say myself. Is this an appropriate time?archived recording (elijah cummings)You can do it now.archived recording (michael cohen)Thank you.michael barbaroMaggie, how does this one of hearing finally come to an end?maggie habermanSeven and a half hours after Michael Cohen first entered this room, sitting pretty patiently through all of these questions, not losing his temper, he was given an opportunity to speak not just to the committee members, but to the president.archived recording (michael cohen)In closing, I’d like to say directly to the president, we honor our veterans, even in the rain. You tell the truth, even when it doesn’t aggrandize you.maggie habermanAnd he used that opportunity to send a message to his former boss, saying, you don’t need to be this person.archived recording (michael cohen)You take responsibility for your own dirty deeds. You don’t use your power of your bully pulpit to destroy the credibility of those who speak out against you. You don’t separate families from one another or demonize those looking to America for a better life. You don’t vilify people based on the God they pray to. And you don’t cuddle up to our adversaries at the expense of our allies.maggie habermanAnd what he was saying to the president, you and I both know who you are, and he was saying to the members of the committee, you should believe me when I say that I understand this man.archived recording (michael cohen)So to those who support the president and his rhetoric, as I once did, I pray the country doesn’t make the same mistakes that I have made or pay the heavy price that my family and I are paying. And I thank you very much for this additional time, Chairman.archived recording (elijah cummings)Thank you very much.maggie habermanAnd when Michael Cohen was done, Elijah Cummings closed with this note of grace toward Michael Cohen.archived recording (elijah cummings)So you wonder whether people believe you. I don’t know. I don’t know whether they believe you. But the fact is that you’ve come, you have your head down. And this has got to be one of the hardest things that you could do.maggie habermanThat was the moment when Michael Cohen started crying. And he really hadn’t done that. He was clearly weeping.archived recording (elijah cummings)I know that you face a lot. I know that you are worried about your family. But this is a part of your destiny.maggie habermanAnd Cummings basically told Cohen, you are doing what you should be doing. You are heading toward the light in this moment.archived recording (elijah cummings)And hopefully, this portion of your destiny will lead to a better — a better Michael Cohen, a better Donald Trump, a better United States of America and a better world.michael barbaroMaggie, thank you very, very much. We appreciate it.maggie habermanMichael, thanks for having me.archived recording (elijah cummings)And we have got to get back to normal. With that, this meeting is adjourned. [MUSIC PLAYING]michael barbaroWe’ll be right back. Here’s what else you need to know today. On Wednesday, Pakistan said it had shot down two Indian fighter jets and captured a pilot from one of them in the latest escalation of hostilities between the two countries. The attack is heightening fears that the decades-old animosities between India and Pakistan could spiral into war. The latest episode began on February 14th, when jihadis operating out of Pakistan killed 40 Indian soldiers, prompting airstrikes from India, and now, a military response from Pakistan.archived recording[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] Bomb blast victims in [INAUDIBLE].michael barbaroIn a speech on Wednesday, the prime minister of Pakistan urged restraint, citing the two countries’ arsenals of nuclear weapons, saying quote, “All big wars have been due to miscalculation. My question to India is that given the weapons we have, can we afford miscalculation?”archived recording[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]michael barbaroAnd in North Carolina on Wednesday, a campaign operative at the center of allegations of election fraud, McCrae Dallas, was arrested and indicted over his handling of absentee ballots in 2016 and 2018. Dallas, who collected absentee ballots for Republican congressional candidate Mark Harris last fall, was charged with obstruction of justice and possession of absentee ballots. As a result of Dallas’ conduct, North Carolina will hold a new election for the 9th congressional district. Harris, who hired Dallas, has withdrawn from that race. [MUSIC PLAYING] That’s it for The Daily. I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.“People that follow Mr. Trump as I did blindly are going to suffer the same consequences that I’m suffering,” he told a packed hearing of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform — a blunt warning to congressional Republicans he said have assumed the same role as Mr. Trump’s protectors that he played for years.During hours of lurid testimony, the president’s once-loyal lawyer and fixer recalled shady business deals and racist comments, and spoke in devastating, uncomfortable detail about his private conversations with the man he had idolized and still refers to only as “Mr. Trump.”Michael D. Cohen, the former lawyer and fixer for President Donald J. Trump, took the stand on Wednesday morning to testify publicly against Mr. Trump before the House Oversight Committee.[Mr. Trump “inflated” the value of his assets in documents given to Deutsche Bank, Mr. Cohen testified.]Such deference did not keep him from painting a damning portrait of the president, including Mr. Trump’s attempts to dodge Vietnam War service and his efforts to strong-arm academic institutions from making his grades public. There were the routine indignities, like when the president put Mr. Cohen on the phone with the first lady to lie to her about a hush money payment to Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film star with whom Mr. Trump is alleged to have had an affair.Mr. Cohen described Mr. Trump as a “con man” and a “cheat,” and estimated there might have been 500 occasions on which he directly threatened someone at the behest of his boss. He was Mr. Trump’s enforcer, a role he once seemed to relish.“If somebody does something Mr. Trump doesn’t like, I do everything in my power to resolve it to Mr. Trump’s benefit,” he told an interviewer in 2011. “If you do something wrong, I’m going to come at you, grab you by the neck, and I’m not going to let you go until I’m finished.”More recently, after Mr. Cohen agreed to tell prosecutors about hush-money payments before the 2016 election, it was the president’s turn to use a Mafioso’s description of his formerly loyal aide. He called him a “rat.”Such was the vernacular the two men honed over years spent navigating gritty but potentially lucrative New York industries — construction, real estate and taxicabs. At the hearing, Mr. Cohen gave the House panel a tutorial of sorts on the folkways of a New York ecosystem in which he and Mr. Trump had thrived.On the day that Mr. Cohen was the star witness in a congressional hearing devised to exhume the president’s past, Mr. Trump was thousands of miles away — preparing for a summit meeting with North Korea’s leader he was hoping would lend gravitas to his embattled presidency, and distract from what was taking place back home.For Mr. Cohen, a man who once walked the hallways of the Trump Organization with a pistol strapped to his ankle and seemed to bask in Mr. Trump’s reflected glory, Wednesday was a moment to absorb the light.“Michael would describe it as being something akin to a cult,” said Donny Deutsch, the advertising executive and friend of Mr. Cohen. “Michael got sucked into it. And his life is in shambles because of it. And he’s the first one to say that.”The relationship between the two men began in the way that many of Mr. Trump’s relationships do: with an act of fealty.In 2006, residents of Trump World Tower — a gleaming glass tower near the United Nations — were pushing to strip Mr. Trump’s name from the building and take control of the building’s management.Mr. Cohen, a former personal injury lawyer who had made millions in the New York City taxicab business, intervened after Mr. Trump’s son Donald Jr. asked for help. Mr. Cohen had already bought several condominiums in Trump buildings, persuaded family and friends to do the same, and had twice read Mr. Trump’s book “The Art of the Deal.” He helped Mr. Trump put down the East Side rebellion, orchestrating a coup that removed the revolting tenants from the condominium board. Mr. Trump took notice.In some ways, it was an unequal relationship between two men of different ages, different upbringings and vastly different financial circumstances. Mr. Cohen, the son of a Holocaust survivor, was just 40 years old when he began working for Mr. Trump — 20 years his elder and the son of a real estate magnate who would inherit millions of dollars of his father’s money.But Mr. Cohen had a comfortable upbringing in Lawrence, on Long Island, a dozen or so miles from the house in Queens where Mr. Trump had been raised. And like his future boss, Mr. Cohen combined raw business savvy with help from a family member — in his case, his father-in-law — to make a mark in the boroughs outside Manhattan.Mr. Cohen was soon a Trump Organization employee, put in charge of disparate elements of Mr. Trump’s business empire. In 2008, he became chief operating officer of Affliction Entertainment, a venture started by Mr. Trump to bring mixed martial arts fights to a pay-per-view audience.“I’m nearly speechless knowing Mr. Trump and Affliction have the trust in me for an event that features the greatest assembly of M.M.A. fighters for one show in M.M.A. history,” Mr. Cohen said in a news release announcing his new position, adding that the coming event was “like having Ali, Frazier, Tyson, Holyfield and other top heavyweights all on the same boxing card.”Working for Mr. Trump, he told lawmakers on Wednesday, was “intoxicating.”“When you were in his presence,” he said, “you felt like you were involved in something greater than yourself — that you were somehow changing the world.”He tried to appeal to his boss by embodying the qualities that Mr. Trump had once admired in his own mentor, Roy Cohn. A Bronx-born lawyer, Mr. Cohn rose to prominence working for Senator Joseph McCarthy’s anti-Communist crusade and then spent years as Mr. Trump’s lawyer. Like Mr. Cohen, he was disbarred for unethical conduct.Wednesday’s congressional hearing is focusing in part on how much Trump knew about hush money payments and a proposed Trump Tower in Moscow.“Roy was brutal, but he was a very loyal guy,” Mr. Trump once told a biographer. “He brutalized for you.”Over time, Mr. Cohen learned how Mr. Trump liked to do business.“He doesn’t give you questions, he doesn’t give you orders,” he said on Wednesday. “He speaks in code, and I understand the code because I’ve been around him for a decade.”In 2011 Mr. Cohen began scouting prospects for another brawl, a possible presidential run by Mr. Trump in 2012. He traveled to Iowa and accompanied Mr. Trump to a speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference, where he acted like a bar bouncer keeping reporters away from his celebrity boss. Mr. Cohen set up a website called ShouldTrumpRun.org.He did not. But almost immediately after the presidential race was over, Mr. Cohen began compiling information for his boss for the next time. He kept a thick binder on his desk at Trump Tower packed with information about filing deadlines in different states for the 2016 election and other campaign minutiae.But he was shunted to the sidelines when the campaign began, prohibited by Mr. Trump’s children and other political operatives from making day-to-day campaign decisions. He pursued other business ventures for Mr. Trump, including the ambitious idea of building the tallest skyscraper in Moscow emblazoned with the Trump name.Trying to gain access to influential figures in Moscow, Mr. Cohen turned to Felix Sater, a Russian immigrant, felon and F.B.I. informant who had helped Mr. Trump with other development deals and had explored various ventures in Russia.This effort became a central focus of the investigation by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, who is examining Russia’s attempts to sabotage the 2016 election and any role Mr. Trump’s advisers played in coordinating with Moscow. And the lies Mr. Cohen told about the negotiations put him in even more legal jeopardy.On Wednesday, he apologized to lawmakers for lying to a different congressional panel in 2017, when he said that the Trump Tower Moscow negotiations ended in January 2016, before the first presidential primaries. In fact, they continued for months longer.“To be clear,” he said, “Mr. Trump knew of and directed the Trump Moscow negotiations throughout the campaign and lied about it. He lied about it because he never expected to win. He also lied about it because he stood to make hundreds of millions of dollars on the Moscow real estate project.”“And so I lied about it, too,” he added.After he won the election, Mr. Trump brought many of his longtime confidants to the White House, but Mr. Cohen was left behind. He was disappointed but remained a loyal backbencher, raising money for Mr. Trump’s re-election fund and publicly attacking celebrities like Snoop Dogg and Johnny Depp for their anti-Trump comments.Republicans at Wednesday’s hearing tried to cast Mr. Cohen as an embittered former aide trying to get payback for being excluded from a White House job. On Twitter, Mr. Trump’s son Eric said that Mr. Cohen was known within the campaign to be seeking a job.Mr. Cohen has insisted over the past two years — and did again on Wednesday — that he never had any interest in moving to Washington, uprooting his family and giving up his job as Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer. He said that Mr. Trump had wanted him for a White House job, and was upset when it did not work out.Regardless of the actual circumstances, Mr. Cohen’s absence from the administration created a distance between Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump that would become a chasm.When F.B.I. agents raided Mr. Cohen’s office and apartment last April, carting off years of business records, emails and other documents, Mr. Cohen relied on his first instinct — he would not flip.He took at least one call from Mr. Trump, who urged him to stay strong. His lawyers strategized with the president’s, and Mr. Trump praised him and insisted his former fixer and lawyer would never cooperate with prosecutors.That would change by July, as his legal problems mounted and his friends urged him not to take the fall for Mr. Trump. He changed his Twitter bio page, removing any mention of being Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, a move people close to him said was a deliberate signal of his independence.Around that time, officials at Mr. Trump’s company began to balk at paying some of Mr. Cohen’s legal fees.He pleaded guilty in August to financial crimes, and in his guilty plea he implicated his former boss in a scheme to pay hush money to two women before the 2016 election.It was an extraordinary turn for a once-devoted soldier — a decision that Mr. Cohen on Wednesday described as a catharsis.“I have lied, but I am not a liar. I have done bad things, but I am not a bad man,” he said before a hushed room.“I have fixed things. But I am no longer your fixer, Mr. Trump.”An earlier version of this article misstated the name of the building where Michael D. Cohen put down a rebellion by tenants. It is Trump World Tower, not Trump World Plaza.OpinionNoah BookbinderAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byRepublicans can attack his credibility, but his charges are specific, persuasive and backed by strong evidence. By Noah BookbinderMr. Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.In day-long testimony before the House Oversight Committee on Wednesday, Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former attorney, made several devastating revelations about the president — revelations that portend a new era of accountability for the president and his close associates. It was a big day, but it is only the first of many.Mr. Cohen’s claims, if true, add to the evidence that Mr. Trump and his campaign had prior knowledge that Russia may have been interfering in the 2016 election and did nothing to stop it. Mr. Cohen testified that he was in Mr. Trump’s office when Roger Stone called and told Mr. Trump that he had just spoken with Julian Assange, the editor of WikiLeaks, who told Mr. Stone that “there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign.”Those emails were hacked by members of Russian military intelligence and shared with WikiLeaks, and the first release occurred precisely when Mr. Stone apparently told Mr. Trump they would be. During the same period, the Trump campaign sought or accepted multiple meetings with Russia-linked individuals who claimed to have damaging information about Ms. Clinton. If there was “no collusion,” as Mr. Trump so frequently claims, it was not for lack of trying.But Mr. Cohen’s most damaging revelations related to Mr. Trump’s personal involvement in a potential criminal conspiracy to violate campaign finance laws and cover up those offenses. This possible conspiracy was the subject of a comprehensive report issued by Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, the watchdog organization that I direct. In the report, we detail how Mr. Trump could be personally liable for unlawful campaign contributions in the form of payments involving Mr. Cohen to silence women who claimed that they had affairs with Mr. Trump. These potential violations are no small matter. Rather, they appear to have been committed for the purpose of suppressing negative stories about a central issue of the campaign: Mr. Trump’s attitudes toward and alleged mistreatment of women.Mr. Cohen testified there was “no doubt” that Mr. Trump knew what these payments were for, that candidate Trump directed him to “use my own personal funds from a home equity line of credit to avoid any money being traced back to him that could negatively impact his campaign.” The decision to pay Stephanie Clifford, known as Stormy Daniels, for her silence directly followed the revelation of an “Access Hollywood” video in which Mr. Trump claimed that he sexually assaulted women. Mr. Cohen testified that Mr. Trump decided to make the payment to Ms. Clifford because Mr. Trump worried that a second scandal would negatively affect his chances of winning the election.The most compelling evidence produced by Mr. Cohen on Wednesday was not anything he said but two documents he produced: copies of two $35,000 checks he received in 2017, one signed by Allen Weisselberg, the chief financial officer of the Trump Organization, and Donald Trump Jr., the other by President Trump. With these and nine other payments over the course of that year, Mr. Cohen was “reimbursed” by the Trump Organization and President Trump for the money that Mr. Cohen spent to pay Ms. Clifford for her silence. The payments also included a $60,000 bonus for Mr. Cohen — presumably a reward for his loyalty.These checks are key. They corroborate Mr. Cohen’s testimony and provide hard evidence that Mr. Trump and senior executives at the Trump Organization knew of and committed overt acts in furtherance of a conspiracy to violate campaign finance law and cover up those violations. Additionally, the checks are evidence that Mr. Trump knowingly made a false statement when he failed to report his liability to Mr. Cohen on his personal financial disclosure form in June 2017. This potential felony was committed while Mr. Trump was president.Mr. Cohen explained he was confident that Mr. Trump would repay him the $131,000 that Mr. Cohen borrowed in his own name, quoting a conversation he had with Mr. Trump in the White House in February 2017. Mr. Cohen testified that President Trump said: “Don’t worry, Michael, your January and February reimbursement checks are coming. They were FedExed from New York and it takes a while for that to get through the White House system.”Mr. Trump’s intent to influence the election by directing these contributions would be a crucial part of any potential prosecution for felony campaign finance violations. Mr. Cohen’s testimony is substantial, powerful evidence that President Trump understood he had a liability to Mr. Cohen from the beginning of his presidency and that Mr. Trump acted with the requisite intent to be subjected to prosecution for criminal campaign finance violations.Although Mr. Cohen’s credibility repeatedly came under attack by the president’s allies on the committee, there are many reasons to trust what Mr. Cohen said today. Many of his most important claims were backed by documents, and federal prosecutors in Manhattan have access to millions of records and at least 12 recordings of Mr. Trump that were seized in searches of Mr. Cohen’s office, home and hotel room last spring. After his prosecutions, Mr. Cohen knows well the costs of lying.Our constitutional order is set up to instill within every citizen a belief that public service is, at base, a public trust. Mr. Cohen’s testimony adds to the growing evidence that President Trump violated that sacred trust by failing to report foreign interference in the 2016 election, by violating federal campaign finance law to win the 2016 election and by lying to the American people and their government to cover up those offenses after he became president. What consequences should follow as these and other facts are established is as much a question for Congress and the American people as it is for federal prosecutors.Noah Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byScreenlandBy Carina ChocanoThe level of attention surrounding Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is, by any measure, extraordinary, bordering on Kardashian-grade. This goes for both the positive and the negative attention, each of which can feel more like a self-serving projection than an accurate representation of who Ocasio-Cortez is or what she’s doing.The congresswoman has become a handy and versatile symbol — the representative representative. For the leftward and younger wings of the Democratic Party, she serves as a figurehead and a hero; for conservative media outlets, as reliable outrage bait. Everyone seems willing to let her be a lightning rod — including, notably, Ocasio-Cortez herself.It’s not easy to absorb so much static. “At first, it was really, really, really hard,” she recently told Vanity Fair. “I felt like I was being physically ripped apart in those first two to three months.” But Ocasio-Cortez’s own acknowledgment of the attention, which she has incorporated into her public persona as a kind of running metacommentary on fame, spin and bias, is also a handy way to channel it in useful directions. Take, for instance, the lowly clip of routine congressional testimony — from a House Committee on Oversight and Reform hearing on H.R. 1, a bill involving campaign finance and ethics rules — that recently went viral, generating well over 40 million views.There was nothing especially dramatic about it: no bombshell revelations, no combative exchanges, no emotional outbursts. On the contrary, Ocasio-Cortez was calm, upbeat and pleasant, framing her questions as a kind of game — a “lightning round” on the limits of campaign-finance rules. Casting herself as a hypothetical villain and enlisting witnesses as her co-conspirators, she described a legislative system reduced by special interests to a corrupt, zero-sum competition. “I’m gonna be the bad guy,” she says in the video. “Which I’m sure half the room would agree with anyway. And I want to get away with as much bad things as possible, ideally to enrich myself and advance my interests, even if that means putting my interests ahead of the American people.”Criticism of Ocasio-Cortez has often come wrapped in dismissiveness; early attacks, especially, hinged on the ease with which Americans might be persuaded to see a young woman and political outsider as unserious, unprepared, even vapid. At the start of this year, a clip of her dancing in the style of “The Breakfast Club” — taken from a video made when she was an undergraduate — was circulated gleefully, as if an image of her younger self dancing would undermine her legitimacy as a legislator. Until quite recently, the protocol for a woman subjected to such attacks was to rise above them, brushing off all the negative attention (and even some of the positive), projecting an air of being occupied in stolid, competent work. But Ocasio-Cortez has, thus far, found more interesting reactions. Her response to the circulation of that video wasn’t to strike a more mature pose; it was to have herself filmed, as a legislator, dancing in front of her office.Part of what makes her congressional questioning on H.R. 1 interesting is that she doesn’t try to play down the qualities that are used to mock or attack her. If anything, she harnesses them for rhetorical effect. Being dismissed as young, inexperienced and female turns out to be something she’s quite good at.It’s not that the mode of her questioning is especially unusual. She wants to demonstrate how easy it can be, under current law, for unscrupulous people to hijack the legislative process, and like countless legislators and attorneys before her, she uses friendly witnesses to make the argument for her. She asks lengthy, essentially rhetorical questions and occasionally prompts the experts to confirm that what she’s saying is correct. This method is familiar enough to anyone who has ever watched television, as are its rhetorical flourishes — feigned naïveté, false modesty, hand-wringing solemnity and other devices, all enacted for the benefit of the audience.And yet the tone here is completely different. Ocasio-Cortez doesn’t pretend to take the moral high ground or strive for a clinical, prosecutorial demeanor. She has fun with it. At least one reason this video has been watched more than 40 million times is that she has opted for the pretense of a “game,” embracing youthful speech and a breezy, chipper tone:So, green light for hush money. I can do all sorts of terrible things. It’s totally legal right now for me to pay people off, and that is considered speech. That money is considered speech. So I use my special-interest, dark-money-funded campaign to pay off folks that I need to pay off and get elected. So now I’m elected. Now I’m in. I’ve got the power to draft, lobby and shape the laws that govern the United States of America. Fabulous.By playing a game, she exposes the game — the way the law allows for behavior the average person might consider corrupt on its face. “It’s already super legal, as we’ve seen, for me to be a pretty bad guy,” she concludes, having prompted witnesses to confirm this. And on top of this game, of course, is a trickier one: The rest of the committee is being asked to indulge a what-if scenario that describes the actual rules under which they were elected. But citing real-world details would break the spell, plunging the whole thing into the mire of accusations. With a low-stakes hypothetical — hey, guys, let’s pretend someone, incredibly, did want to exploit the system — Ocasio-Cortez bends any air of wide-eyed innocence to her advantage. If you really were frivolous or an unwelcome interloper in serious affairs, the upside is that you’d be excused from having to pretend that the rules of serious affairs actually work. You’d be free to be the 2019 version of Elle Woods from “Legally Blonde,” charmingly turning people’s underestimation of you against them.It’s a strange artifact of Ocasio-Cortez’s attention-magnetism that her hypotheticals about corruption might have ended up garnering more attention and emotion than the corruption itself. But if there’s anything she has shown amazing skill at, it’s knowing how to manage and channel that attention, to let the air out of it and turn it back on whoever paid it. It makes the old model — of keeping your head down and rising above — seem distinctly old. Amid the furious echo chambers of modern media, failing to acknowledge the most absurd image of yourself — failing to laugh at it or own it or hit back at it online — can hurt more than it helps. A caricature of Hillary Clinton, for instance, seemed to obscure her entirely, feeding on her silence. There aren’t too many models for how a woman, in particular, can respond to attacks and antipathy without being looked on as fragile, or shrill, or weak, or vain, or full of grievance.Ocasio-Cortez is finding one. Today’s fray is too vicious to stay above; it is too handy with Photoshop and social media, too full of noise, too undivided between legitimate sources and illegitimate ones. It’s a mosh pit. There is no dignified attending to your own business in a mosh pit. You keep your elbows ready, and you dance.Carina Chocano is the author of “You Play the Girl” and a contributing writer for the magazine.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe April 9 election is an opportunity for the left to present a moral alternative and take a stand for democracy.By Ayman OdehMr. Odeh leads the Joint List, the third-largest bloc in Israel’s parliament, the Knesset, and is chairman of the Hadash Party.HAIFA, Israel — I was sitting in my family’s home in Haifa in 1984 when I watched a man who had just won a seat in the Knesset appear on television. In American-accented Hebrew, he reiterated the cornerstone of his campaign platform: All Arabs must be expelled from the land — by force, if necessary. In its televised campaign advertisement, his party had declared, “In the name of God and Israel, the Arabs must go.” I was 9 years old, Palestinian, Arab and a citizen of Israel. This man, Meir Kahane, wanted me gone.Thirty-five years later, I am still here. Mr. Kahane’s party was banned by Israel’s High Court in 1988 and declared a terrorist organization in 1994. And I lead the Hadash Party and, for the past four years, the Joint List, representing Palestinian citizens of Israel in the Knesset. Mr. Kahane’s adherents are still here, too, but no party that so explicitly pledges allegiance to his vision has made a successful bid for the Knesset since.That looks like it will change this year.On Feb. 20, I sat with my 10-year-old son, Tayeb, in our family home in Haifa as we watched news reports that a new Kahanist party called Jewish Power, which advocates ethnic cleansing throughout the country and whose leader, in 2012, openly called for the erasure of Gaza, had incorporated and joined with two other extremist political parties to run in the general election on April 9. It seems very likely that they’ll take seats as members of the next Knesset.In 1984, even right-wing members of Knesset left the room when Mr. Kahane stood to speak. The prime minister at the time, Yitzhak Shamir of the right-wing Likud Party, said he would absolutely refuse to allow Mr. Kahane into his coalition, even if it cost him the government. Now Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is opening the doors of the Knesset and welcoming the Kahanists inside.Perhaps this shouldn’t come as a surprise. Mr. Netanyahu’s rule over his decade in office has been increasingly racist. Last year he enacted the Nation-State Law, which legalized certain forms of racial discrimination and officially transformed the Arab population in Israel into second-class citizens. He’s perfectly willing to embrace violent and radical extremists — including anti-Semitic right-wing authoritarians like Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary — as long as they appear to support his unrepentant aggression and indefinite occupation of the West Bank.Moreover, Mr. Netanyahu needs every extremist vote he can get to stay in office. He enters the elections with charges of fraud, bribery and breach of public trust hanging over his head. He faces a new, serious challenge from the center. He’s willing to go to any length to maintain control of the government: demonizing Arabs, branding the media as the enemy of the people, and even relying on Kahanists to win a majority.If we are to defeat this dangerous alliance, we must provide a clear alternative. The only way for the left to prevail is to choose solidarity and the shared Jewish-Arab struggle for peace, equality and democracy.Palestinian Arab citizens of Israel represent 20 percent of the population. We cannot change the course of the country alone. But there is no electoral math that leads to victory for a center-left-wing coalition without the participation of the Arab parties. The center-left parties vying to unseat Mr. Netanyahu surely understand this math. Yet they stubbornly insist that a coalition government cannot rely on Arab parties, or the people we represent.This hasn’t always been the case. In the 1990s, support from parties representing Palestinian Arab citizens of Israel saved the government of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin from collapse. While they didn’t officially join the coalition, two Arab and Arab-Jewish parties created an outside bloc that allowed Rabin to remain prime minister in exchange for an unprecedented role in policymaking. This was one of the most effective periods in the history of Arab parties in the Knesset. They were able to help bring about real gains for Palestinian citizens of Israel, including recognition and incorporation of villages in the Galilee, preventing the Israeli government from confiscating Palestinian lands in Jerusalem, and boosting budgets to Arab municipalities.This was also the most significant period for the peace process. Parties representing Palestinian citizens of Israel played an important role at a time when the government was negotiating Israel’s recognition of the Palestine Liberation Organization in return for Palestinian recognition of the existence of the State of Israel, signing the Oslo accords and exiting Gaza and Jericho.These political and policy achievements are significant enough on their own, but Arab participation also contributed to and coincided with a culture very different from today’s. I remember the period of the Oslo Accords as a time of great hope, with a feeling of peace in the air. It brought us closer, Arabs and Jews, and made us all, for a brief moment, feel as though we belonged. We weren’t able to end the occupation and create full equality on our own. But for the first time, we were a political force that could not be ignored.Since that time, Mr. Netanyahu and his allies on the right have understood that Palestinian citizens of Israel will be part of the solution, so they have chosen to make us the problem. In this election, like in the Rabin years, a center-left coalition cannot capture enough seats to form a government without Arab parties’ support.No one understands this better than Mr. Netanyahu, which is why he is doing everything he can to make the case that a legitimate government cannot depend on Arabs. Indeed, one of his favorite talking points against his biggest challengers, Benny Gantz and Yair Lapid, is that their government will include parties that represent Arabs.But instead of challenging this racist and fundamentally anti-democratic notion, center-left parties have reinforced it. Mr. Lapid has promised, “We won’t form a government with the Arab parties.” Even Avi Gabbay of the Labor Party, when he became party leader in 2017, declared definitively, “We will not share a government with the Joint List, period.”This is politically foolish. But equally important, it misses the great opportunity to model the shared future we want for our children. If the center-left parties believe Palestinian citizens of Israel have a place in this country, they must accept that we have a place in its politics. We cannot build a shared future if we are relegated to the back seats of the Knesset chamber. Only a diverse and principled left-wing bloc will have the political power and moral might to create a real alternative in this country.Ayman Odeh (@ayodeh) leads the Joint List, the third-largest bloc in Israel’s parliament, the Knesset, and is chairman of the Hadash Party.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian AustenOTTAWA — Canada’s top public servant, who was accused of improperly pressing the former attorney general to settle a corruption case involving a major corporation, resigned on Monday as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tried to put more than a month of political turmoil behind him.It was the fourth prominent resignation related to the scandal since last month.In parliamentary testimony, Jody Wilson-Raybould, who stepped down as justice minister and attorney general, had singled out Michael Wernick, the public servant, for making what she called “veiled threats” to steer her toward using a new law to impose a hefty financial penalty, rather than a criminal conviction, on SNC-Lavalin, a Montreal company accused of bribery in Libya.A criminal conviction would have barred the company from government work for a decade, which led Mr. Trudeau and others to fear the loss of Canadian jobs.Mr. Wernick, a career public servant whose role as clerk of the Privy Council is supposed to be impartial and nonpartisan, denied acting improperly or making threats in his own testimony in front of Parliament. Public appearances by the clerk are rare, and past clerks have generally been guarded and careful in their comments, as it is their job to ensure that government workers carry out the laws passed by politicians.But Mr. Wernick’s two appearances to discuss SNC-Lavalin before a parliamentary committee were anything but that.In the first round, Mr. Wernick lectured committee members about what he sees as overheated political rhetoric in the country.“I worry about the rising tide of incitements to violence when people use terms like ‘treason’ and ‘traitor’ in open discourse,” he said, referring to terms used on social media by some critics of Mr. Trudeau’s actions in the SNC-Lavalin affair. “Those are words that lead to assassination. I’m worried that somebody is going to be shot in this country this year during the political campaign.”[Read more about how Justin Trudeau was ensnared by the SNC-Lavalin scandal]Opposition politicians said afterward that Mr. Wernick’s actions involving Ms. Wilson-Raybould and his comments about the political state of the nation were improper for a public servant in any position. One member of the New Democratic Party, Charlie Angus, asked Mr. Trudeau in a letter to demand Mr. Wernick resign.It had been expected that Mr. Wernick, who has been in the public service for 38 years, would retire soon after the federal election in October. But in his resignation letter to Mr. Trudeau on Monday, he said that “recent events have led me to conclude that I cannot serve as clerk of the Privy Council and secretary to cabinet during the upcoming election campaign,” and “it is now apparent that there is no path for me to have a relationship of mutual trust and respect with the leaders of the opposition parties.”The clerk is a key figure in the transition if the government changes hands during an election. Mr. Wernick was also recently appointed to a group tasked with looking for signs of foreign interference in the coming campaign.It was not clear when Mr. Wernick’s retirement will take effect, but the chief public servant in the department of international affairs was named as his replacement.In addition to Mr. Wernick and Ms. Wilson-Raybould, Gerald Butts, Mr. Trudeau’s close friend, stepped down as the prime minister’s top political aide. Jane Philpott, another cabinet minister, resigned in solidarity with Ms. Wilson-Raybould, although the two former ministers are still sitting as Liberals in Parliament.Early on Monday, Mr. Trudeau named Joyce Murray, a longtime Liberal member of Parliament from British Columbia, to replace Ms. Philpott as president of the Treasury Board.Both Mr. Butts and Mr. Trudeau have insisted that their requests, and those of others, that Ms. Wilson-Raybould look into the possibility of a settlement were neither excessive nor improper. In the end, she did not order prosecutors to seek a settlement, and the company is still going to court.The justice part of Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s old job was clearly political. But her decisions as attorney general were supposed to be made without political considerations in mind.Some countries, notably Britain, separate the two roles for that reason.Before Mr. Wernick quit on Monday, Mr. Trudeau announced that Anne McLellan, who served as justice minister and attorney general in another Liberal government from 1997 to 2002, would review the dual post and make recommendations by the end of June.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byCanada LetterBy Ian AustenWhile the controversy surrounding Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, the former cabinet minister Jody Wilson-Raybould and a criminal case against SNC-Lavalin has preoccupied Canadians for about a month, it was over the last week that it seemed to capture international attention.We’ve been reporting on the story more or less from the beginning. And throughout that time, some broad differences have emerged in the responses from Canada and American readers. While online comments may not necessarily reflect general public opinion, many Canadians who wrote in didn’t seem to accept Mr. Trudeau’s assessment that no one in his government did anything improper.[Want the Canada Letter newsletter in your inbox every week? Sign up here.]Here’s one take on events from Ellen Buckley, a reader from Toronto:This “erosion of trust” mentioned by Justin Trudeau is based on the fact that Jody Wilson-Raybould was not responding to the pressure that he and others were putting on her to interfere in the SNC-Lavalin case. So he removed her from her post.I would argue that he intended to replace her with someone who would respond differently, the way he wanted the SNC-Lavalin case managed.This issue is not going away.But many American readers noted that, despite the attempts by Mr. Trudeau and others to settle the criminal case against SNC-Lavalin with a large fine, the prosecution continues. Combined with the fact that no one pocketed any money or obviously benefited politically, those readers seem puzzled that the issue has created so much political turmoil in Canada, particularly when contrasted with the current upheaval in Washington.Here’s an excerpt from a comment from a user going by “astaritt,” who lives in Washington:So we learn that Trudeau is not a saint, but a politician (how dare he!), that nobody acted out of personal profit, and that the company did not go unpunished. With your permission, I think I will continue to envy Canada’s political life!To be sure, some Canadians said that they support the government, and some readers from outside of the country endorsed Mr. Trudeau or his aides.For those of you who are catching up, here’s our reporting from the past week about the controversy which, inconveniently, has so far failed to develop a widely accepted shorthand name:• Will Canadian Women Turn Their Backs on Their Feminist Prime Minister?: A story many women characterize as a group of mostly men ganging up on a female cabinet minister may have undermined Mr. Trudeau’s standing with female voters.• An Unapologetic Trudeau Speaks Up on Political Crisis Rattling Canada: Mr. Trudeau has made saying sorry a regular ritual of his time in office — but he declined to do so in a public statement on the controversy Thursday.• Trudeau’s Ex-Adviser and Close Friend Denies Pressuring Canada’s Justice Minister in Criminal Case: Early in the scandal, Gerald Butts, Mr. Trudeau’s longtime friend, quit as his top political aide. Though now an outsider, he was the first person this week to testify on the government’s version of events.• Friend, Adviser, Witness: Trudeau’s Fate Could Hinge on Confidant’s Testimony: They were college friends, canoeing pals, and in one another’s wedding parties. Read our profile of Gerald Butts.• 2nd Trudeau Minister Resigns as Canada’s Political Crisis Swells: Things hit a new low for the Liberals at the start of the week when Jane Philpott, a highly respected minister, quit the cabinet in solidarity with Ms. Wilson-Raybould.• How Justin Trudeau Was Ensnared by Scandal: A Corruption Case and ‘Veiled Threats’: Can’t make sense of it all? We break down the SNC-Lavalin affair and its origins.And in another sign of growing interest in Mr. Trudeau’s political crisis, The Times’s Opinion section also weighed in this week:• The Editorial Board — Oh, Trudeau. “In politics the fresher the face, the more obvious the blemishes,” writes The Times’s editorial board.• Opinion — Canadian Politics Aren’t Cute. They’re Corrupt. The Calgary journalist Jen Gerson questioned the coziness of Canada’s elite in The Times’s Opinion section.Regardless of your take on the affair, one thing everyone can likely agree with Ms. Buckley on is that it doesn’t seem about to imminently vanish. So please check our Canada section over the coming days, and perhaps weeks, for continued coverage.On March 19 we’re gathering Dan Bilefsky, my colleague based in Montreal; Chris Buckley, a member of our team of correspondents in Beijing; Katie Benner, our United States Justice Department expert; and Raymond Zhong, a Times technology reporter, to talk about the Chinese telecom giant Huawei, the arrest of its chief financial officer in Vancouver and what it all means to Canada.Times subscribers are invited to participate. Please check out the details and sign up for free, here.Dan was in Vancouver for much of the past week, partly to look into what the city thinks about Meng Wanzhou, its globally famous detainee.[Read: Meng Wanzhou’s Cushy Bail Is Raising Hackles in Canada]Ms. Meng, of course, is the Huawei executive and daughter of the company’s founder, who was arrested by the Mounties in early December while changing planes at Vancouver’s airport. She was picked up at the request of the United States government, which has accused her of, among other things, committing fraud by lying to banks about the company’s efforts to go around American sanctions on Iran.The case has left Canada trapped between two global superpowers. Dan found that many people in Vancouver are not thrilled by Ms. Meng’s protracted stay under house arrest in the city, where she owns two homes with her husband.“To some, she is yet another wealthy foreigner who has used the city as a real estate investment, helping make it one of the most unaffordable cities in North America,” Dan wrote. “And they contrast her predicament — able to travel relatively freely about the city, if with a GPS tracker around her ankle and under 24-hour surveillance — with that of their fellow citizens, several of whom have been arrested by China in apparent retaliation for Ms. Meng’s arrest.”This week, China ratcheted up tensions by formally accusing two of the Canadians it arrested of involvement in a spy plot.[Read: China Accuses Two Canadians of Spying, Widening a Political Rift]Finally, be sure to check out Dan’s explainer about Ms. Meng and her deportation hearing, which began this week.[Read: What You Need to Know About the Huawei Court Case in Canada]—Sebastian Modak, our Travel columnist who is making his way through The Times’s 52 Place to Go list, visited Lake Superior’s ice caves near Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, and found an unusual adventure: “There are no signboards. I didn’t come across any organized tours to the caves and going out on the ice in search of them is dangerous.”— Expressions of support and offers of help poured in for Alex Trebek, the son of Sudbury, Ontario, whose role as the longtime host of “Jeopardy!” has made him a celebrity in the United States, after he revealed a cancer diagnosis this week.— Twenty-one years have passed since Michael J. Fox, another Canadian who found fame across the border, revealed his Parkinson’s diagnosis. He told The New York Times magazine that he’s “developed a relationship with Parkinson’s where I gave the disease its room to do what it needed to do and it left me areas I could still flourish in.”— Duncan Keith, the three-time Stanley Cup champion from Penticton, British Columbia, shares his workout and wellness secrets.— Costas Spiliadis made Milos a global restaurant empire, one that’s long had a Montreal outpost. A competitor in Montreal said that before Milos, a Greek restaurant was a place with a couple of guys in “paper hats standing in front of a shawarma machine.”— Norway may move to divest some of the energy industry holdings in its national wealth fund that were based on oil and gas revenues. For Canada, which is struggling to find foreign investment in the sector, the move is worrying.A native of Windsor, Ontario, Ian Austen was educated in Toronto, lives in Ottawa and has reported about Canada for The New York Times for the past 15 years. Follow him on Twitter at @ianrausten.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to nytcanada@nytimes.com. And if you haven’t done so, please subscribe to the email newsletter version.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian Austen and Catherine PorterOTTAWA — His testimony was calm, measured and respectful. Whether it helped erase a taint on the leader of Canada remains to be seen.Gerald Butts, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s close friend and former top political aide, tried on Wednesday to defuse a scandal gripping the country, denying that any improper pressure was put on the former justice minister to settle a criminal case.In much-anticipated televised testimony before a parliamentary committee, Mr. Butts painted his interactions with the former minister and attorney general, Jody Wilson-Raybould, on the corruption case against a large company as minimal and friendly.And he said his two discussions with her had been aimed at carefully considering what would happen to thousands of Canadian jobs if the company were convicted.“When 9,000 people’s jobs are at stake, it is a public policy problem of the highest order,” Mr. Butts said. “It was our obligation to exhaustively consider options the law allows.”While no one disputed that it was the attorney general’s decision to make, he said, “It would, however, be Canadians’ decision to live with.”Mr. Butts, who knows Mr. Trudeau from their days at McGill University, faced a difficult task: To change the political narrative around the controversy, rehabilitate the public image of his best friend and former boss, while not disparaging Ms. Wilson-Raybould, whose testimony suggested unsavory political back-room tactics.With the federal election seven months away, and Trudeau’s popularity sinking, Mr. Butts’s testimony was critical in re-establishing the prime minister’s image as a feminist leader committed to an open, “sunny” style.Some political experts said Mr. Butts, who is credited with masterminding Mr. Trudeau’s political rise, succeeded. But others said the main person who needs to speak is Mr. Trudeau.“Canadians need to hear from the prime minister, not just committee testimony,” said Lori Turnbull, a professor of political science at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia.The picture Mr. Butts painted differed starkly from the one Ms. Wilson-Raybould depicted from the same spot a week ago — that she had been hounded for over four months with “inappropriate pressure” and “veiled threats” to avoid a criminal conviction of the Canadian construction giant, SNC-Lavalin, by letting the company pay a multimillion-dollar fine instead.The belief, Mr. Butts said, was that a criminal conviction would have imperiled Canadian jobs by barring the company from doing government business for a decade.Many believed Ms. Wilson-Raybould paid a heavy price for her refusal to comply — demoted to a lesser cabinet position. She abruptly resigned last month.But Mr. Butts portrayed the situation as ordinary government operations.He denied that staff members pressured Ms. Wilson-Raybould, saying they merely advised her to seek independent legal advice on how to apply a new law that would allow the fine.He also denied that the justice minister had been punished, saying her new assignment was part of an ordinary cabinet shuffle.Over more than two and a half hours of testimony and questions, Mr. Butts kept his voice low and his tone muted and cordial.He presented himself not as the throne of political power, but as the son of a coal miner who knew the price of shuttered plants and lost jobs. His tie was askew and he wore a coal miner’s pin in his lapel. He repeatedly called Ms. Wilson-Raybould a “valued colleague” and a friend.“Gerald Butts’s testimony casts the SNC-Lavalin issue in a very different light, and will likely alter Canadians’ perception,” said Myer Siemiatycki, a politics professor at Ryerson University in Toronto.Others disagreed. “We need to hear more, from more people involved,” said Maureen Mancuso, a political-science professor at the University of Guelph.At the center of the crisis, which began a month ago, is SNC-Lavalin, charged in 2015 with bribing Libyan officials during the dictatorship of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi and defrauding the Libyan government. It was Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s job to either allow the prosecution to continue, or apply a new criminal law allowing the company to pay a large fine, as companies can do in similar arrangements in Britain and the United States.In her testimony, which lasted almost four hours, she said she felt it was improper for politics to influence the case. She described 10 meetings, 10 calls and several emails in which she had been asked to order prosecutors to use the new law to cut a deal with the company.But Mr. Butts said that the number of interactions was minimal, compared with the hundred meetings he had attended to debate the government’s purchase of the contested Trans Mountain pipeline or meetings on the Nafta pact.“This, to me, begs the entire question of what constitutes pressure,” Mr. Butts said. “According to the former attorney general, 11 people made contact with her office over four months. That’s two meetings and two phone calls per month.”Mr. Butts took pains throughout his testimony not to criticize Ms. Wilson-Raybould, or pick apart her version of events. But he did cast a dinner they had in December in a very different light. She remembered having told him she wanted “everyone to stop talking to me about SNC as I had made up my mind.” He said he recalled no such statement.“There was nothing remotely negative about the exchange from my perspective,” Mr. Butts said. “In fact, I walked away from dinner thinking it was the best discussion we had had in a while.”A couple of hours after the meal, they exchanged friendly text messages, which he read aloud, that bore no residue of conflict. Instead, Ms. Wilson-Raybould appeared to thank him and say “alo” to the prime minister.In a statement, Ms. Wilson-Raybould did not directly comment on Mr. Butts’s testimony but expressed willingness to again appear before the committee.In the end, SNC-Lavalin’s case is proceeding as a criminal prosecution. But in January, Ms. Wilson-Raybould was moved from justice to the less prestigious post of veterans affairs.“The January cabinet shuffle had absolutely nothing to do with the SNC-Lavalin,” Mr. Butts told the justice committee, adding, however, that his relationship with Ms. Wilson-Raybould had deteriorated significantly by then. The shuffle was sparked by another cabinet minister’s departure, he said. Ms. Wilson-Raybould, a lawyer and a former Indigenous leader in British Columbia, was offered the Indigenous Affairs portfolio.“Then Minister Wilson-Raybould did something I didn’t expect,” Mr. Butts said. “I had never seen anyone do it before, in many shuffles, over many years. The former attorney general turned down a cabinet portfolio.”Mr. Butts said Ms. Wilson-Raybould explained that she had “spent her life opposed to the Indian Act and couldn’t be in charge of the programs administered under its authority.”While Ms. Wilson-Raybould wanted to remain at justice, her “dream job,” Mr. Butts said he had advised Mr. Trudeau that allowing that would set a bad precedent, and the only other post Mr. Trudeau could offer her was veterans affairs. “Cabinet invitations are not the product of shared decision-making,” he said. “It is the prime minister’s decision to make and his alone to make.”Mr. Butts resigned two weeks ago out of what he called loyalty to the prime minister.“If I stayed on, his actions or inactions toward me could have been used to accuse him of playing favorites, that he was choosing his best friend over a minister,” he said. “I could not allow our friendship to be held against him.”His final words to the committee seemed like a farewell note. He thanked members for their service and friendship. The question that remains is whether his sacrifice worked.Ian Austen reported from Ottawa, and Catherine Porter from Toronto. Meagan Campbell contributed reporting from Halifax, Nova Scotia.OpinionJen GersonAdvertisement
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jamie TarabaySYDNEY, Australia — Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia on Monday blamed a “sophisticated state actor” for the recent hacking of Parliament’s computer network, raising the specter of foreign interference in the country’s politics weeks before a national election.The government has not identified the country behind the attack, but Mr. Morrison said that along with Parliament, the networks of the major political parties were also affected.Mr. Morrison did not detail how the country’s security agencies had detected or dealt with the malicious activity, but he insisted that “there is no evidence of any electoral interference.”Cybersecurity experts, he said, briefed the country’s electoral commissions and met with state and territory officials. “They have also worked with global antivirus companies to ensure Australia’s friends and allies have the capacity to detect this malicious activity,” he said.Alastair MacGibbon, the national cybersecurity adviser, said on Monday that the government had not learned the identity of the hacker before it acted to block the activity.That defensive action, he said, “also does other unpleasant things, like remove some of the forensic evidence we’re interested in.”A government cybersecurity expert said one difficulty in identifying the perpetrators was that the hackers used tools that had not previously been seen.The nations most likely to carry out such an attack are China and Russia, security experts said, though Iran, Israel and North Korea also have sophisticated cyberwarfare capabilities.Australia has frequently warned of Chinese interference in its politics. Last year, the government barred the Chinese technology giant Huawei from building a 5G telecommunications network. In a speech in October, the head of the Australian Signals Directorate, an intelligence agency, hinted that the decision was about maintaining the integrity of data and critical infrastructure.“If it is China, then I think it’s important for the public to know that,” said Alex Joske, a researcher at the International Cyber Policy Center in Canberra. “Discussions about Huawei and influence will be issues during the election, and letting the public know that the Chinese Communist Party was in our system is important knowledge.”Mr. Joske said Russia, which interfered in the 2016 United States presidential election, had less interest in the Australian election.After the American experience in 2016, Western democracies should be increasingly aware of the vulnerability of their institutions, said Roderick Jones, founder and president of the cybersecurity firm Rubica in San Francisco.“It is gross negligence to have any significant breach of a system at this point, given everything that’s happened around the world, to have a penetration of a parliamentary system is just negligent,” he said.The Australian hack was above all designed to damage voter confidence, Mr. Jones said.“People are suddenly questioning electronic voting, some of those processes get brought into focus and people stop having trust in them. Every Western election has had interference, every one has been damaged in some way. Russia and China are more allied than ever to destroy confidence in the system,” he said.The prime minister’s acknowledgment of the hack represented a departure from past policy, in which the government has been reluctant to single-handedly call out cyberattacks by foreign governments. Last April, Australia, the United States and Britain accused Russia of state-sponsored hacking. In December, Australia followed the United States in condemning Chinese hackers for trying to steal intellectual property.The Australian government’s conundrum now is what it will do once it has uncovered the identity of the foreign state actor, said Fergus Hanson, head of the International Cyber Policy Center.“This sets up Australia for its first attribution without a coalition, it’s never had the confidence to say that for an attack that just affected Australia,” he said. “In a couple of months’ time, they’re going to have to come out and say who was behind it and then they’ll have to react to it.”How the Australian government responds will be closely watched, not least by the other members of the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance: the United States, Britain, Canada and New Zealand.“Will Australia fall out of the intelligence-sharing community if it doesn’t act, or is shown to have less than robust cybersecurity around key infrastructure?” asked Mr. Jones of Rubica. “There’s not a lot Australia can do, but that’s the point of alliances.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the nationality of Roderick Jones, founder and president of the cybersecurity firm Rubica. He is British, not American.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam NossiterInitial euphoria over the Algerian president’s decision to give up his candidacy for a fifth term quickly gave way on Tuesday to skepticism and anger among opposition figures who called the move a “trick” to save his troubled government.Hundreds of youthful protesters returned to the streets of Algiers and other cities a day after the government canceled the April election, and the country’s independent news media gave voice to a sense that the elderly and infirm president, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, was maneuvering to extend his mandate under the guise of “reform.”Independent television in Algeria broadcast images of demonstrators holding signs with messages like “No extension, game over” and “System, give it up,” using one of the names Algerians commonly give to the ruling circle.The way forward in this giant, oil-rich North African country, four times the size of its former colonizer, France, is unclear. What is nearly certain, though, is that the anti-government demonstrations that have repeatedly hit cities and towns from the coastal north to the desert south will continue.The question looming over the disarray is how long the government will be able to maintain its grip, or whether the all-powerful army, up to now restrained, will intervene to preserve the status quo, as it has done in the past.At the same time, no single leader has emerged to unite the country’s chronically divided opposition, weakened by years of repression and oil-money patronage dispensed by Mr. Bouteflika, who has been president for two decades.On Monday night, Algeria’s government announced, in the name of the paralyzed, 82-year-old Mr. Bouteflika, that an April 18 election would not be held, that he would not be a candidate in any future election, and that a constitutional convention would be held to promote “reforms.”But no timetable was given for the national convention, or for any future election. Mr. Bouteflika’s growing body of opponents suggested that the president — or the ruling army-led circle behind him — was merely seeking to prolong his term in office.While Mr. Bouteflika got rid of his broadly unpopular prime minister, Ahmed Ouyahia, for years a loyal servant, the reaction a day later to the president’s moves was broadly hostile.“He’s canceled the election and remains in power: Bouteflika’s latest trick,” read a headline on Tuesday in the leading independent daily newspaper, El Watan.The veteran opposition leader Saïd Saadi, who has been imprisoned several times by the government, said in a telephone interview from Algiers: “People were demanding an election without Bouteflika. Now he’s saying it’s going to be Bouteflika without an election.”State television broadcast rare images of an immobile Mr. Bouteflika hunched over in a chair, his face frozen, receiving visitors. Some of his visitors have confirmed that Mr. Bouteflika has extreme difficulty speaking.It is unclear how much of the turmoil he is aware of. The televised images did not appear to reassure the public.“I don’t think this will calm the country at all,” Mr. Saadi said. “Even more will be out on the streets Friday,” he added, referring to the weekly protests that have been held after Friday Prayer.Ali Benflis, a leading opposition figure and one of Mr. Bouteflika’s former prime ministers, told France 24 television that the government’s plan was “simply a trick, another trick.”Mr. Benflis added: “This is an extension decided on by unconstitutional forces. This is an illegitimate presidency. This just makes the situation worse. It’s a charade.” Mr. Benflis had been a candidate in the scheduled April 18 election but withdrew to protest Mr. Bouteflika’s presence in it.Mr. Bouteflika’s latest plan “will only reinforce the determination to take to the streets and ask the regime to leave,” Amel Boubekeur, a researcher at EHESS in Paris, said in a telephone interview from Algiers.“It’s not even constitutionally based,” she said. “It’s not the responsibility of the president to determine elections.” In any case, “the discussion is no longer about individuals,” Ms. Boubekeur said. “It is about the illegitimacy of the regime.”In that sense, promises to include the opposition in the planned constitutional conference may fall on deaf ears, given that it will be organized by Mr. Bouteflika’s discredited government.The newly appointed deputy prime minister, Ramtane Lamamra, a former foreign minister, made such promises in an interview Tuesday with Radio France Internationale. “An opening-up is the order of the day,” Mr. Lamamra said. “It’s a true national consensus, the union of all Algerians and their energies in the service of a qualitatively better future.”Algerians have heard this before. It is not clear that anybody is listening this time.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam GoldmanA proliferation of digital spying tools in recent years has helped generate a surge in sophisticated espionage operations, once mostly the purview of major powers like the United States and Russia. Now, small countries, corporations and even simply wealthy people looking to settle scores can all hire private firms to conduct intelligence operations.A New York Times investigation detailed this new era of digital warfare and the multibillion-dollar industry behind it. Two firms — NSO, an Israeli company, and DarkMatter, based in the United Arab Emirates — have hired former government hackers to help their government clients not only hack criminal elements like terrorist groups and drug cartels but in some cases to also act on darker impulses, targeting activists and journalists.[Hackers for hire: How former American and Israeli government operatives conduct espionage on behalf of authoritarian governments]Governments rely on surveillance as part of legitimate law enforcement investigations. NSO, selling technology created by graduates of Intelligence Unit 8200 — Israel’s equivalent of the National Security Agency — says it “helps government agencies prevent and investigate terrorism and crime to save thousands of lives around the globe.” Mexican officials have credited NSO technology as pivotal in helping to track and capture El Chapo, the drug lord convicted in New York last month. DarkMatter helps with internal security in the United Arab Emirates, former employees said, thwarting terrorism and helping the police solve crimes.But the Mexican government is also suspected of using NSO tools to spy on its own citizens, including journalists and activists. Saudi Arabia was also accused in a lawsuit of using NSO tools to spy on associates of Jamal Khashoggi, the Washington Post columnist who was killed in October by Saudi operatives in the kingdom’s embassy in Istanbul.The government of the United Arab Emirates used both DarkMatter and NSO tools to spy on Ahmed Mansoor, a prominent human rights activist, The Times found.The proliferation of companies trying to compete in what Moody’s estimates is a $12 billion market for so-called lawful intercept spyware has set off a fierce competition to hire American, Israeli and Russian veterans of the world’s most sophisticated intelligence agencies — and for the companies to poach talent from one another.NSO’s business model appears to be paying off. Francisco Partners, a private equity firm, purchased a 70 percent stake in the company for $130 million six years ago. This year, NSO had a valuation of just under $1 billion.F.B.I. agents and federal prosecutors in Washington are trying to determine whether any Americans working for DarkMatter broke United States law. Investigators are examining whether DarkMatter employees committed internet fraud if they hacked into American servers or email accounts such as Google or Yahoo or whether they violated export laws.The Americans, some of whom worked for the N.S.A. and the C.I.A., should have sought an export license from the United States government when they accepted jobs at DarkMatter, according to people familiar with the investigation. But DarkMatter defenders say foreign companies do not need to apply for an export license and the Americans provided no technical data or secret tools to the Emirati government, nor were they engaged in training or assisting Emirati military forces.“It’s a dangerous area,” said Edward Y. Kim, a former federal prosecutor who was the co-chief of the complex fraud and cybercrime unit in the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan. “I think, sometimes, you have folks who come from that the national security side who are adept at the technical aspects of the work but not the legal complications.”Follow Adam Goldman on Twitter: @adamgoldmanNYT.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Iuliia Mendel and Neil MacFarquharKIEV, Ukraine — A Ukrainian comedian who plays an accidental president on television delivered a walloping rebuke to the country’s political class in the presidential election on Sunday by emerging first in a crowded field of candidates, exit polls indicated.The comedian, Volodymyr Zelensky, 41, captured more than 30 percent of the vote, according to two authoritative exit polls. It was a strong showing by a maverick with no political experience, though far below the 50 percent needed to win the first round outright.If exit polls translate into real votes, Mr. Zelensky will face President Petro O. Poroshenko, who emerged second with around 18 percent, in a runoff in three weeks, on April 21. Yulia V. Tymoshenko, a former prime minister making her third bid for the presidency, was third with about 13 percent.Official results are not due until Monday, and there will most likely be challenges, but the exit polls all reflected roughly the same results predicted by surveys before the vote. Turnout was estimated at about 63 percent in an electorate of 30 million people, slightly ahead of the 60 percent who voted in 2014.After the polls closed, Mr. Zelensky and Mr. Poroshenko lost no time in attacking each other.“I want to thank all Ukrainians who voted today not just for kicks,” said Mr. Zelensky, taking a dig at Mr. Poroshenko for saying the incumbent alone should be taken seriously. “This is only the first step toward a great victory.”Mr. Poroshenko said that the time for jokes was over and that Mr. Zelensky would make just the kind of weak president sought by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, the bogeyman of Ukrainian politics.“He dreams of a soft, submissive, gentle, giggling, inexperienced, weak, ideologically amorphous and politically uncertain president,” Mr. Poroshenko said. “Will we gift him this?”Mr. Poroshenko, a chocolate tycoon who is among the richest men in a country dominated by oligarchs, appeared to offer a tacit admission that younger voters had abandoned him in droves. He said he had heard — and understood — their desire for a faster pace of change.It was a stunning result in an election that will help to determine the future of a country that has become the European front line in a new era of confrontation between Russia and the West. The grinding war it has spawned has left 13,000 dead and displaced millions since 2014.The fact that Ukraine works as a real democracy, albeit a troubled one, is often cited as perhaps the most important aspect of the election. Unlike the Potemkin elections in neighboring Russia and Belarus, the contest in Ukraine offered voters a real choice, with the outcome unknown.In a crowded field of candidates, most of them politicians, Mr. Zelensky stood out as the star of a popular television series in which he plays a schoolteacher who is unexpectedly propelled into the presidency after his anticorruption tirade goes viral.“He is doing well because there is a widespread mood in Ukraine of alienation from politicians and the political class, which is not unique to Ukraine,” said Robert Brinkley, a former British ambassador to Ukraine who is now chairman of the Ukrainian Institute in London, an educational and cultural center.In southern Kiev, Artem Nechyporuk, 26, a computer programmer, emerged from a polling station on what was the first warm day of spring to say that he supported Mr. Zelensky.“He is the only candidate who is not contaminated with our politics,” he said. “That is why he is the only candidate for me.”The basic knock on politics in Ukraine is that ever since the country declared its independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, it has been run by a government of oligarchs for oligarchs. Despite antigovernment uprisings in 2004 and 2014, the country’s fundamental character remains unchanged.Avenues for the abuse of government contracts and other corruption have been reduced but not eliminated, and the stigma of graft dogs the entourage around Mr. Poroshenko.Ukrainians seem more fed up than ever. A mere 9 percent say they have confidence in the government, and 91 percent see it as corrupt, according to a Gallup poll conducted in March.That gave rise to Mr. Zelensky, who has blurred the lines between his television character and his candidacy. His show, “The Servant of the People,” became the name of his party. Many voters say they feel as if they know him after watching him on television for years, similar to what many Americans say about President Trump.Despite his fresh-face appeal, however, questions hang over Mr. Zelensky.Some wonder if he may be a surrogate for Ihor V. Kolomoisky, an oligarch and bitter rival of Mr. Poroshenko’s who moved to Israel after becoming embroiled in a banking scandal that cost Ukraine $5.6 billion. Although Mr. Zelensky has been a business partner with the oligarch through television and announced his candidacy on Mr. Kolomoisky’s channel, both men have denied any covert link.The electorate’s main concerns are issues like raising wages and unemployment, as well as the war in eastern Ukraine. No candidate has offered a detailed blueprint to solve those issues.Mr. Poroshenko, 53, has wrapped himself in the flag, campaigning under the slogan “Army, Language, Faith.” His campaign emphasized that he had restructured the army to strengthen it in its confrontation with Russia and had pulled the Orthodox Church in Ukraine out of Moscow’s orbit.“I am voting for Poroshenko because he has already demonstrated his ability to do things, not just words,” Nataliia Pavlik, 72, said after voting in Kiev on Sunday. She cited the ability to travel in Europe without a visa, church autonomy and the army as important considerations.“He raised it from the ashes,” Ms. Pavlik said. “I want him to anchor all of this for the next five years.”Former Prime Minister Tymoshenko, 58, adopted populist positions like plans to cut gas prices in half and to raise wages, without saying how to pay for them.Ms. Tymoshenko and Mr. Poroshenko have been rivals for years.The Kremlin has depicted the election as a farce.Mr. Poroshenko was elected president in 2014 three months after his predecessor, Viktor F. Yanukovych, fled to Russia in the face of the uprising. Mr. Poroshenko has made confronting Russia the centerpiece of his presidency, and Russian state television invariably presents him as a corrupt buffoon working for the West.But Russia has not made any pronouncements about whom it supports, which would doom any candidate.The infrastructure needed to vote was not set up in Crimea, which Russia annexed, or in the areas of eastern Ukraine controlled by pro-Russian separatists, or for expatriate workers in Russia itself, leaving several million voters without polling stations.Follow Neil MacFarquhar on Instagram: @nytMacfarquhar.Iuliia Mendel reported from Kiev, and Neil MacFarquhar from Moscow. Ivan Nechepurenko and Sophia Kishkovsky contributed reporting from Moscow.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byCanada LetterBy Ian AustenSeven years ago, Elisabeth Malkin, my colleague in Mexico City, and I worked on one of the strangest stories of my career. It involved a consultant from Mount Forest, Ontario, with no previous experience in the Middle East being sent by construction and engineering firm SNC-Lavalin to assess the turmoil in Libya that eventually led to the overthrow of its dictator, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.For $100,000, the consultant, Cynthia Vanier, wrote a five-page report condemning the NATO-led bombing campaign against Colonel Qaddafi’s forces. She wound up in a Mexican jail, charged with trying to smuggle the dictator’s son into that country, and remained there for 18 months.It was among a series of episodes that exposed widespread corruption at SNC-Lavalin, led to the firing of its top executives (several of whom were arrested) and raised questions about the survival of the company.Now, of course, SNC-Lavalin’s time with the Qaddafi family is at the heart of a political mess confronting Prime Minister Justin Trudeau just eight months before a federal election.[Want the Canada Letter in your inbox every week? Sign up here.]It began over a week ago when The Globe and Mail, citing anonymous sources (subscribers only), reported that when Jody Wilson-Raybould was justice minister, Mr. Trudeau or his aides pressured her to cut a deal that would allow SNC-Lavalin to escape a criminal conviction for bribery in Libya. That was followed this week by the announcement of an investigation by Parliament’s ethics commissioner into Mr. Trudeau’s actions. Then came the abrupt resignation of Ms. Wilson-Raybould from Mr. Trudeau’s cabinet.Let’s step back for a quick overview of SNC-Lavalin’s troubled history, and where Trudeau’s current problem may lead:•What is SNC-Lavalin? SNC-Lavalin was formed in 1991 from two Montreal-based companies. It has 52,000 employees in over 160 countries and reported revenue of 9.3 billion Canadian dollars in 2017. Like Bombardier, SNC-Lavalin’s international success remains a source of pride in Quebec, despite the latter’s issues with corruption, and it employs thousands of people there.•What did it do? The current controversy comes from charges laid by the police four years ago. They accuse the company of paying 47.7 million Canadian dollars in bribes to officials in Libya to win contracts there, and of defrauding the Libyan government and its agencies of 129.8 million Canadian dollars.But that’s not all. In 2013, the World Bank banned SNC-Lavalin from bidding on contracts for a decade to settle a corruption inquiry into its activities in Bangladesh. An Indian government investigation showed that the company paid bribes there where it built a major hydroelectric dam.Back home, Pierre Duhaime, SNC-Lavalin’s former chief executive, pleaded guilty this month to charges related to tens of millions of dollars in bribes the company paid to secure the contract to build a hospital complex in Montreal. A public official has pleaded guilty to taking bribes from SNC-Lavalin that landed it the contract to renovate the landmark Jacques-Cartier bridge in Montreal.•What’s at stake? If convicted in the Libya case, SNC-Lavalin will be banned from federal government contracts for a decade. Such work is a major part of SNC-Lavalin’s business. Without it, the company could be financially crippled or vulnerable to a takeover by a foreign competitor.•How has it responded? Publicly, the company’s new management claims all bribery and all other forms of lawbreaking are in its past.Privately, it has heavily lobbied politicians at all levels of government and in all parties. The company was looking for changes to criminal law that would allow it to dodge a conviction by paying a large fine and proving that it now has clean hands — the United States and Britain have similar “remediation agreements.”While it made no link, the Trudeau government introduced just such a change to the Criminal Code last March, burying it in the hundreds of pages of the federal budget bill.•What are the allegations against Mr. Trudeau? According to The Globe and Mail, his office improperly pushed Ms. Wilson-Raybould to get federal prosecutors to drop the criminal case and use the new settlement system.The prosecution service is supposed to do its work free of the influence of politicians. Justice ministers in Canada, in their dual role as attorney general, can give prosecutors orders. But that’s only supposed to happen in exceptional cases and the law requires the government to make those orders public through an official notice.In the end, however, nothing happened. SNC-Lavalin is still heading to court.•What’s next? Mr. Trudeau has repeatedly acknowledged that the issue was discussed with his former minister. But he has also insisted that neither he nor his office pressured Ms. Wilson-Raybould, who has yet to give her side of the story, citing solicitor-client privilege.Whatever turns the political storm takes, John W. Boscariol, a lawyer in Toronto who advises companies on corruption issues, told me this week that the outcome is unlikely to please SNC-Lavalin.“Now that it’s exploded, it’s going to be difficult for any company to get a remediation agreement,” he said.On Feb. 24 we’re holding a special conference call for Canadian and Australian readers with David Sanger, national security correspondent for The Times. He’ll be focusing on the pressure the United States is bringing on Canada and other countries to not use equipment from China’s Huawei when they upgrade their wireless networks. You can find all the details and register here.—The loss of Jody Wilson-Raybould from his cabinet may prove to be a step backward in Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s attempts at reconciliation with Indigenous people.—In Opinion, columnist Nicholas Kristof recently praised Canada as a model for the world but also said that we’re “boring.” Some Canadian readers get the last word.—A reader from Vancouver describes his city’s transit system in a global comparison with New York.—Jack Ming Jie Lin, a native of Markham, Ontario, and now a student at Columbia University in New York, has some things on his mind in addition to his studies. He has a rare opportunity as an amateur tennis player to test himself against the pros.—Hockey fans in Toronto who are discouraged by the cost and scarcity of Leafs tickets might want to to check out the Toronto Furies of the Canadian Women’s Hockey League.—Sebastian Modak, Our 52 Places Traveler, is on the move and one of his first stops was the ice caves near Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario. Our colleagues in Books have put together a list of books for each of his stops. Their Canadian selections are not obvious but clever.—As The Times’s food editor, Sam Sifton comes up with a lot of terrific recipes. But he has also been on a campaign to get us cooking without glancing at a tablet or a grubby printout. Sam’s non-recipe recipes have now been collected.—Before computers were machines they were people, more often than not women, who performed calculations. When those tasks were mechanized, women often programmed the machines. Then, somehow, men took over. Clive Thompson looks at what went wrong.A native of Windsor, Ontario, Ian Austen was educated in Toronto, lives in Ottawa and has reported about Canada for The New York Times for the past 15 years. Follow him on Twitter at @ianrausten.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to nytcanada@nytimes.com. And if this doesn’t arrive in your inbox each Saturday, please subscribe to the email newsletter version.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Keith Bradsher and Chris BuckleyBEIJING — China’s premier said on Tuesday that his government would respond to an economic slowdown by cutting taxes, easing burdens on the private sector and giving markets a bigger role — diluting the heavily pro-state pronouncements and policies that critics have warned were scaring investors.Calling 2019 a “crucial year” for China’s economy, Premier Li Keqiang, the second-ranking official in China after President Xi Jinping, laid out measures long supported by private businesses. Mr. Li’s annual report to the national legislature revived rhetoric about market solutions after the government faced growing criticism for favoring government initiatives and state-owned companies, squeezing out private enterprise.“We will keep using market-oriented reforming thinking,” Mr. Li said in his report. “The government must act with resolve to hand matters it shouldn’t manage over to the market.”But the specifics of his speech to the legislature did not go as far as domestic or foreign critics would have liked. And this year’s session of China’s Communist Party-controlled legislature, the National People’s Congress, underscored how much economic anxieties have come to dominate policy a year after Mr. Xi appeared politically indomitable.The nearly 3,000 congress delegates meet once a year to loyally approve legislation, reports and budgets. Last year, Mr. Xi, who is also the party leader, used the meeting to entrench his power, pushing through changes to the Constitution that abolished a term limit on the presidency. That meeting also approved a broad restructuring of the government and established a new anticorruption agency.But the triumphant glow of Mr. Xi’s victory last March has dimmed. Mr. Li echoed the somber tone of Mr. Xi’s recent comments about the year ahead, which is dotted with sensitive anniversaries — above all, 30 years since the armed crackdown of June 3 to 4, 1989, on pro-democracy protests centered on Tiananmen Square in Beijing.Mr. Li made little mention of the trade frictions with the Trump administration. But he stressed the risks facing China.“We will face a graver and more complicated environment, as well as risks and challenges,” Mr. Li said. “We must be fully prepared for a tough struggle.”The Chinese economy has slowed sharply since summer, mainly because of tight restrictions imposed on lending a year ago to curb debt. The trade war with the United States has also damaged the confidence of businesses and consumers, making entrepreneurs less willing to invest in export factories and consumers less eager to buy big-ticket items like apartments and new cars.“This was not a leadership that appeared strong and decisive with a clear vision,” said Elizabeth C. Economy, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York and the author of “The Third Revolution,” which studied Mr. Xi’s years in power.Besides slowing growth, she said, China’s leaders must contend with rising household debt, the failure of looser birth restrictions to slow the aging crisis and growing shortfalls in the pension system.Mr. Li laid out how the government intends to turn around some of those problems.He set an ambitious target for economic growth this year of 6 to 6.5 percent. That allows for slightly slower expansion than last year’s target of about 6.5 percent. Growth of China’s gross domestic product for 2018 came in at 6.6 percent. Many Western economists suspect that Chinese statistics may overestimate recent growth, however.The three main choices for maintaining high growth have been to further ramp up spending on roads, bridges, rail lines and other infrastructure; to print more money and force banks to lend more; or to cut taxes and deregulate.The government has been slow to cut taxes or deregulate, preferring to maintain its revenues and control. But many tycoons want lower taxes. In his report, Mr. Li also said the government would reduce the burden on employers from social insurance and old-age insurance for workers.“Tax cuts and fee reductions get right to the spot in tackling the pains and difficulties” currently troubling businesses, he said.Mr. Li also promised to cut taxes a year ago. But economists believe that much of the effect of the nominal cuts was offset by stricter collection.“The more tax we have, the heavier our burden will be when we go overseas and go into battle,” said Liu Hanyuan, the chairman of Tongwei Group, a conglomerate making everything from fish food to solar panels.In the past decade, Beijing turned to huge, debt-fueled investments in infrastructure and big increases in the money supply each time that the economy appeared to be slowing more than the country’s leaders could tolerate. The infrastructure investments have given China one of the world’s finest transportation networks.But many companies and local governments are now struggling to pay all the debt they have accumulated. Rapid increases in mortgages and the broader money supply have driven the prices of apartments skyward, far beyond what most young people can afford. Real estate prices have jumped more than tenfold in the past two decades in many towns and cities.China’s leaders set out at the start of last year to reduce debt — only to find that the economy slowed markedly by June. In July, President Trump began in earnest a trade war with China. By autumn, business and investor confidence had plummeted, investment in new factories and other equipment was stalling, and car sales were in a nose dive.The government responded this winter by again ramping up infrastructure spending and debt. A broad measure of debt known as total social financing posted a record jump in January.Total debt has not come down the way Chinese officials hoped a year ago. But China has made progress by cracking down hard on the barely regulated shadow banking system, while encouraging a big increase in the sale of bonds by local governments and corporations.Relying more on bonds now means a less opaque system that may be a little less prone to sudden financial panics. But it has exposed another problem: Most small and medium-size enterprises are not large enough or profitable enough to issue bonds. These enterprises create 90 percent of the new jobs in China, but the state-controlled banking system has long been reluctant to lend to them.The annual work report by China’s premier, delivered in a very long speech in the Great Hall of the People, resembles in some ways the State of the Union address that the president of the United States delivers to Congress each year.Mr. Li had little new to say about foreign policy or domestic political threats. But the proposed budget released at the same time as his speech revealed that China would continue to spend heavily to modernize its military, although at a slightly lower pace than last year. Military spending in 2019 would rise by 7.5 percent to about $178 billion, the budget showed. Last year, the military budget grew by 8.1 percent.“The world today faces profound changes of a kind unseen in a century,” Mr. Li said in his speech.Follow Keith Bradsher and Chris Buckley on Twitter: @KeithBradsher and @ChuBailiang.Ailin Tang, Elsie Chen and Zoe Mou contributed research.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe March 1 Movement, born a century ago, set in play the forces that would foster and then divide the nation.By Kyung Moon HwangMr. Hwang is a professor of history at the University of Southern California.On March 1, 1919, a crowd gathered in Pagoda Park in downtown Seoul to hear proclaimed that “Korea is an independent state and Koreans are a self-governing people.” That statement, known as the March 1 declaration, came in direct defiance of Japanese rule, which had begun in 1910. The organizers then spanned out to lead citywide marches, waving their arms and shouting, “Mansei!” (the equivalent of “Long live Korea!”). Seoul was already a powder keg. The police were out in force that week as countless thousands of Koreans arrived in the city for the funeral of Gojong, Korea's previous monarch, who had died in January. Still, the magnitude of the protests caught the colonial security forces off guard. Passions on both sides soon spread around the peninsula, leading to a weekslong explosion of violence that resulted in thousands dead, tens of thousands arrested, and the destruction of countless homes, public spaces and even places of worship.Outsiders at the time also detected the significance of the event. The New York Times, which had a correspondent in Beijing, reported the widespread fervor of the colonized, the “barbarous cruelties” of the colonial authorities and the simmering tensions across the peninsula.The discontent had been building for some time. Even before the Japanese annexation in 1910, Koreans had endured five years as a forced Japanese protectorate, the result of Japan’s victory in the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-05. Then, in the first decade of colonial rule, Japan placed stifling restrictions on Koreans’ public lives in the name of security.Koreans studying in Japan enjoyed greater liberties, however, and they were among the first to recognize the implications of Woodrow Wilson’s well-publicized emphasis on national self-determination. On Feb. 8, 1919, Korean students in Tokyo read aloud a statement of independence, drawing upon an independence declaration by Korean resistance leaders in Manchuria a few days earlier.The Manchurian document had aimed to rally the fighting spirit of fellow Koreans, but the Feb. 8 declaration was directed at the “world’s nations,” particularly the United States and Britain, the “masters of world reform.” Written by Yi Gwang-su, perhaps Korea’s greatest modern novelist, the declaration pledged to “follow the model of the advanced democratic nations that are based on justice and freedom” in establishing an independent Korea that would join the League of Nations. The statement, full of dismay over Japanese domination, ended with veiled threats of armed action if the Japanese empire did not immediately grant Korean independence.Three weeks later, the March 1 declaration also condemned a wide range of Japanese abuses, but it omitted references to bitterness, democracy or even the league, instead emphasizing pacifist resistance. Still, the document alluded to the “spirit of the times” in stressing the desire to join the “great movement for world reform.” Readers and listeners also noticed a religious undertone in the insistence that “we shall not blame Japan; we must first blame ourselves before finding fault with others.” While the words were written by Choe Nam-seon, a pioneering poet and historian who infused the prose with flourish, its core ideas came from the declaration’s 33 signers, a collection of clergymen from Protestantism, Buddhism and what a New York Times report referred to as “Heaven worshipers,” the native non-Christian religious movement formally called the Church of the Heavenly Way.In 1894, this religion’s earlier incarnation had inspired followers to organize the largest uprising in the history of the Joseon Dynasty, which set off a series of events hastening the kingdom’s end. Korea’s loss of sovereignty to Japan in 1910 occurred in a tumultuous era shaped by external forces both threatening and enlightening: Imperialist pressures proved impossible to overcome, but they also aroused an acute awareness of Korean nationhood.Although such aspirations were firmly quashed during the opening years of colonial rule, the March 1 demonstrations of 1919, and particularly the calamities of their bloody suppression, compelled the Japanese government to change its approach. That fall, the new colonial administration declared a liberalized policy of “cultural rule” that stressed the “harmony of Japan and Korea.”This did not mean Koreans would gain independence, or even that the mechanisms of autocratic foreign occupation would weaken. But it did mark the peak formative period of modern Korean nationhood. Koreans could now participate much more freely in publishing, religion and business, and they formed and joined organizations dedicated to all kinds of cultural, intellectual and economic endeavors. This produced the first canon of great modern literary works, fostered competing articulations of national identity and even prompted the standardization of written Korean.But these hopeful developments came to a screeching halt when Japan, during the Pacific War of 1937-1945, imposed a total mobilization, which included abuses such as forced labor, sexual slavery and an attempt to obliterate a distinctive Korean identity. Under intense strain, even revered figures like Yi and Choe, who had eloquently given voice to their countrymen’s longing for independence, now called for Koreans to become “imperial subjects” of the Japanese emperor and sacrifice their lives for Japan’s wars.So did the March 1 movement fail? While it prompted a flowering of national and nationalist culture, it did not result in Korea’s independence, its primary goal. And the moderation of colonial rule eventually gave way to brutal repression of Korean identity.The movement’s significance extends to another major outcome of March 1 as well. A month after the protests broke out, resistance groups established, in Shanghai, the Korean Provisional Government of the newly declared Republic of Korea. These groups included budding Communists, armed fighters from Siberia and Manchuria, expatriates from the United States and activists from within the peninsula. On April 10, 1919, they issued a founding proclamation and draft constitution, which pointed to the March 1 demonstrations and, like the February declaration, promised that the new state would join the League of Nations.This unity proved short-lived. The independence movement split into two opposing ideological camps, a division that eventually became institutionalized into the separate states that we know today as North and South Korea. Communist leaders spread across Asia and later fought the Japanese in the wilderness of Manchuria, while their right-wing counterparts aligned with the Chinese nationalists. Another batch of independence activists worked out of the United States, although they too branched into separate groups based in Hawaii and California and on the East Coast.An umbrella organization that linked the various non-Communist independence efforts after 1919 was the Korean National Association, headquartered in Los Angeles. Over 16,000 K.N.A. documents, which were discovered in 2002 and have since been digitized by the Korean Heritage Library of the University of Southern California, reveal an extensive, global network of organizations, funds and activists, including esteemed figures like Ahn Chang-Ho, Henry Chung, Philip Jaisohn, Hyun Soon, Syngman Rhee — later the first president of South Korea — and Kim Kyu-sik, a self-appointed delegate to the Versailles Peace Conference and the K.P.G.’s first foreign minister. Their recurring appearance in these letters, telegrams, ledgers and photographs reveals the ceaseless attempt to extend the organizational impulse of the K.P.G. and the idealistic thrust of March 1, if not necessarily its spirit of unity. Indeed, the communists remained mostly excluded from this circle despite their growing anti-Japanese campaigns.None of these figures played a decisive role in bringing about the liberation from Japanese rule in 1945, but their roles as international leaders of the national resistance endowed them with supreme legitimacy after they returned home. Among those riding this postwar wave was Kim Il-sung, a guerrilla leader under the Chinese Communists in Manchuria. Kim managed to survive the Japanese hunt for him in the late 1930s and, after holding out in the Soviet Union, accompanied the Russians into Pyongyang in 1945. There he maneuvered into position as the Soviets’ main Korean representative in their northern occupation zone. In an effort to compensate for this dependence, Kim’s regime devised the nativist, isolationist ideology of “Juche,” which would undergird his totalitarian rule over North Korea until his death in 1994. But Juche, commonly rendered as “self-reliance,” was itself an extreme offshoot of the “self-determination” that had inspired the events of 1919. To a degree, then, North Korea’s history can be traced to the rhetorical winds stirred up by an American president, Woodrow Wilson.According to North Korea’s national history narrative, March 1 should be celebrated as a noble failure, a stirring expression of the people’s struggle for freedom that fell short because it was headed by bourgeois leaders instead of a great socialist hero. That would be, of course, Kim himself, who as a 6-year-old boy is said to have participated in the protests but apparently was too young to lead the revolution. The Korean Provisional Government, on the other hand, is not even considered, which is understandable given that the Korean Communist movements, after a bitter fallout with the K.P.G. in 1919, continued to denigrate the group thereafter. South Korea, on the other hand, has fully embraced March 1 and the K.P.G. The constitution of the new South Korean state (here in Korean; here in English), founded in 1948 and called the Republic of Korea, appropriated March 1 in establishing its legitimacy. This connection remains today in the preamble, which talks of “upholding the cause of the Provisional Republic of Korea Government born of the March First Independence Movement of 1919.” Every year on March 1, a national holiday in South Korea, children are trotted out to schoolyards dressed in costumes, singing the March 1 Song and waving the Korean flag to show their March 1 spirit. Then they march into the streets to watch awkward performances featuring actors dressed as Japanese policemen shooting at valiant demonstrators, as onlookers boo and cheer while chomping on dried squid. The March 1 commemorations have become a longstanding rite of spring, marking the beginning of the school year and seasonally regenerating anti-Japanese sentiment. This year’s centenary promised the biggest commemorations of all, not only in Korea but in diasporic communities around the world.The global reach of 1919 in Korean history reflects the universalized promises made by the architects of the peace at Versailles, which inspired developments far from the shattered landscapes of Europe. The long-term outcomes, however, were decidedly mixed. Last year during their summit, the two leaders of North and South Korea pledged to organize a joint celebration of the coming March 1 centenary. The plan fizzled, and maybe for the best. For while the events of spring 1919 facilitated later independence movements and the flowering of Korean culture and identity, they also unleashed catastrophic forces that eventually divided the country, perhaps forever.Further reading: Frank Baldwin, “Participatory Anti-Imperalism: The 1919 Independence Movement,” Journal of Korean Studies, Vol. 1, 1979; Kyung Moon Hwang, “A History of Korea: An Episodic Narrative”; Richard Kim, “The Quest for Statehood: Korean Immigrant Nationalism and U.S. Sovereignty, 1905-1945”; Michael Robinson, “Korea’s Twentieth-Century Odyssey: A Short History.”Kyung Moon Hwang is a professor of history at the University of Southern California and the author, most recently, of “Past Forward: Essays in Korean History.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Dionne SearceyABUJA, Nigeria — When a Nigerian presidential candidate landed in the United States in January after years of being subject to a visa ban because of corruption allegations, he had a team of Western consultants and lobbyists to thank for the warm American welcome.One of those who helped was Riva Levinson, who was mentored in the art of political consulting by Paul Manafort, the former chairman of President Trump’s presidential campaign, sentenced this month to more than seven years in prison for a host of crimes.Ms. Levinson, who now has her own firm, KRL International, is among the many American political consultants with ties to President Trump who have become regular fixtures in African political campaigns, seizing on the region’s turn toward democracy.For decades, countries in sub-Saharan Africa changed governments through coups that left military juntas in charge. But increasingly, in places like Nigeria, elections are supposed to determine the will of the people, though sometimes they are not fully free and fair.Yet as elections become more common and competitive — complete with polling and social media campaigns — African candidates are hiring Western firms to sway voters and influence the media coverage of their candidacies.Consultants with perceived ties to Mr. Trump are especially valued by their political clients, even in countries that he disparaged with a vulgar phrase, and which are largely off his administration’s foreign policy radar.From the sidelines at a recent election event in Nigeria, Ms. Levinson reminisced about the old days when Mr. Manafort would dispatch her across the globe to enlist unsavory leaders and help them clean up their international reputations, for a hefty fee.“Paul was a master strategist. He could hover above at 30,000 feet and see how all of the moving parts fit together, and then move each one with precision,” she recalled. “I learned that from him, and he gave me a front-row seat to watch history. I’m grateful to him for this.”Ms. Levinson was in Nigeria to help the opposition party in the country’s recent election. The party’s presidential candidate was Atiku Abubakar, and her client was a powerful Nigerian senator who was managing Mr. Abubakar’s campaign.Mr. Abubakar lost. But during the campaign, Ms. Levinson and a team of other American lobbyists and consultants with ties to Mr. Trump helped their client secure meetings with legislators and with powerful American lobbying groups. He stayed at the Trump International Hotel, a five-star hotel near the White House.Those small victories, in which Mr. Abubakar won access to Washington power centers, were impressive for a candidate who was named as a prime example of overseas corruption by a United States Senate subcommittee in 2010.  Its report said that he had funneled tens of millions of dollars worth of Nigerian oil revenues into foreign shell accounts. Mr. Abubakar has never been prosecuted, but for years he was prevented from traveling to the United States.“These firms help candidates launder their image in Washington, London and New York, shifting outside attention away from the bare-knuckle reality of their election campaigns,” said Matthew T. Page, a former State Department official who is now an associate fellow in the Africa program of Chatham House, a British research group.“They also seek to manipulate the election narrative by planting press stories or neutralizing negative narratives on social media,” Mr. Page said.In Nigeria, the opposition party also tapped another consulting firm, Ballard Partners, to help facilitate meetings for Mr. Abubakar on Capitol Hill as part of a $90,000 a month contract. Brian D. Ballard, the firm’s owner, was a top fund-raiser in the Trump campaign.Ms. Levinson accompanied Mr. Abubakar to many of his meetings in Washington, and Holland & Knight, an American law firm, lobbied the State Department to secure his visa. Scott D. Mason, a former aid to Mr. Trump, led the law firm’s effort, according to filings.Some Western firms are trying to exploit the Trump administration’s concerns that China is surpassing America’s influence on the continent, and are marketing their African clients as solutions.Mr. Ballard’s firm says it is adding consultants with ties to Africa, betting that it will win more clients as the Trump administration tries to counteract China, which has offered billions of dollars in infrastructure gifts and loans to governments across the mineral-rich continent to gain a foothold.“It is undeniably in America’s interest to combat China’s growing geopolitical influence in Africa,” said James Rubin, who is in charge of international affairs at Ballard Partners and was an assistant secretary of state in the Clinton administration.This month the government of Zimbabwe hired Ballard Partners on a contract worth $500,000 to improve relations with the United States, according to government filings.Longtime African election observers say that in the region, opportunities abound for Western firms to take advantage of editorial standards at local newspapers that can be less rigorous than in other parts of the world. They also can manipulate social media in ways tested and refined in recent elections in the West.The process of representing governments abroad can get messy. Regardless of firms’ ties to the White House, charges of fraud and violence around election time have cast a pall on the work of some consultants, jeopardizing their own image.In 2016, the government of President Ali Bongo Ondimba of Gabon hired Ogilvy, a global public relations firm, to bring international reporters to Gabon’s capital, Libreville, for one-on-one interviews with the president at his seaside palace. Mr. Bongo won re-election that year, though the opposition criticized the fairness of the vote and violence broke out.Last year, Mercury Public Affairs announced it was working for the government of Cameroon ahead of its presidential election. But it quickly rescinded the deal amid charges of human rights violations by Cameroon’s military.Not long after, Glover Park Group, an American firm, picked up a contract working for the Cameroonian Embassy in Washington. The firm’s representatives send regular dispatches to reporters with government-friendly spins on events in Cameroon, which is teetering on the brink of a civil war with separatists.Vanguard Africa, a nonprofit consultancy, built a client base by working for the opposition for free in Gambia, where one of the region’s most brutal and longest-serving presidents was ousted in 2016.For countries in sub-Saharan Africa, the opinions of officials on the other side of the globe matter. Western governments can offer millions of dollars in aid to alleviate extreme poverty, and military training and weaponry to fight Islamist insurgencies.Local opinions clearly matter, too. In the Nigerian campaign, Mr. Abubakar’s team of Western and local consultants helped shop articles to local newspapers that reflected poorly on the incumbent president and eventual winner, Muhammadu Buhari.While working for Mr. Manafort for 10 years starting in 1985, Ms. Levinson had a roster of clients in need of cleaning up their reputations. He sent her to reel in Mohamed Siad Barre, a Somali dictator, but he did not employ the firm.Eventually, directors at Mr. Manafort’s firm went their own way, and so did Ms. Levinson.“I knew that a Paul Manafort unbound by structure and oversight would be dangerous,” she said. “I wanted no part of that.”She went on to help Ellen Johnson Sirleaf rise to power in Liberia, where she was president from 2006 to 2018. Ms. Levinson’s clients now include ministries in Liberia and in Ghana.Part of her mission in Nigeria, she said, was “to keep international and U.S. attention on Nigeria’s elections, to be free and fair.”Ms. Levinson’s public comments indicate mixed feelings about her old boss. In an editorial last year after Mr. Manafort’s legal troubles began, she called him a rule-bender who had little regard for lives lost and damaged by his actions, and was “all about the money.”Susan Beachy contributed reporting from New York.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byCharm will not extricate Canada’s Justin Trudeau from a spreading political mess. Only honest answers will.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Justin Trudeau came to office in 2015 by the high road, exuding charm, confidence, integrity and an openness to change. He filled his cabinet with women and minorities, opened Canada’s doors to immigrants and posed for endless selfies with adoring crowds. But in politics the fresher the face, the more obvious the blemishes.With seven months to go before Canada’s next national election, the prime minister is embroiled in a political scandal that his charm cannot wipe away. Two members of his cabinet, both prominent women, have resigned, as has his closest adviser, and unless he can convince the public — and do so soon — that he really did nothing wrong in trying to head off the criminal prosecution of a big Montreal-based company, the damage will only get more serious.The crisis unfolded after The Globe and Mail newspaper reported on Feb. 7 that Jody Wilson-Raybould, Mr. Trudeau’s former justice minister and attorney general, had come under improper pressure from the prime minister’s office to reach a negotiated settlement with a multinational engineering firm, SNC-Lavalin, instead of prosecuting it on criminal charges it faces over its business dealings in Libya. Conviction would bar it from government contracts for a decade.The case centers on accusations that SNC-Lavalin paid 47.7 million Canadian dollars in bribes to officials in Libya to win contracts there, and defrauded the Libyan government and its agencies of 129.8 million Canadian dollars. Libya at the time was led by the dictator Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.In the fallout that followed, Ms. Wilson-Raybould resigned from the cabinet, and in testimony to a parliamentary committee last week she described how Mr. Trudeau and his staff had pressed her not to prosecute the firm, citing the company’s threat to slash thousands of jobs or leave Canada entirely. Mr. Trudeau reportedly told her that the loss of those jobs would hurt the ruling Liberal Party in future elections. Of course, companies facing litigation, taxation or other costs of doing business often make such threats.Then on Monday another high-profile government minister, Jane Philpott, abruptly resigned as president of the Treasury Board, saying she had lost confidence in the Trudeau government’s handling of the affair. “I must abide by my core values, my ethical responsibilities and constitutional obligations,” Ms. Philpott said in a letter to the prime minister. “There can be a cost to acting on one’s principles, but there is a bigger cost to abandoning them.”All along, Mr. Trudeau has denied doing anything wrong. He acknowledges that he spoke to Ms. Wilson-Raybould about the SNC-Lavalin case but argues that the discussions were well within the bounds of the rules. His defenders note that charges were not dropped against the company and that a prime minister should show concern about the potential loss of 9,000 jobs. The issue, moreover, was never about dropping charges, but about allowing the firm to pay a fine instead of facing a criminal prosecution.Looked at from south of the Canadian border, the entire matter may seem trivial alongside any of the many accusations levied at President Trump, or of the pressures routinely applied by politicians on behalf of powerful companies.But in Canada, the tangled SNC-Lavalin affair is unavoidably measured against the expectations Mr. Trudeau raised and the standards he set. For him to be accused by two prominent women from his team of violating the high ethical bar he himself set is a major blow, at the least to his brand.Mr. Trudeau is not likely to be compelled to resign over the issue. But the degree of political damage he sustains, and how the scandal affects the October elections, depend on whether he can convince Canadians, in an open venue and in detail, that he did no wrong.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam NossiterAbdelaziz Bouteflika, the ailing Algerian president whose candidacy has spawned weeks of protests in his tightly controlled nation, announced Monday that he would not seek a fifth term in office.The announcement was a concession to citizens who have turned out in ever-increasing numbers on the streets of Algeria’s cities to demand that Mr. Bouteflika give up plans to extend his 20-year rule.But the same statement also canceled the election that had been scheduled for April, raising questions about how long the president would remain in power.“There will be no fifth term,” a statement released to the official news agency in Mr. Bouteflika’s name said Monday night, adding, “and for me there has never been any question of it, my health and my age giving me only as my final duty to the Algerian people contributing to the founding of a new republic as the framework for a new Algerian system.”In fact Mr. Bouteflika, or at least those around him, had maintained his candidacy until the announcement. The 82-year-old president of this oil-rich country was paralyzed in a 2013 stroke, has not been able to address his citizens since, and rarely appears in public.Eight years after the Arab Spring forced out autocrats elsewhere in the region, it seemed to finally be Algeria’s turn: An autocrat had been forced to cede some power by the street. The demonstrations were largely peaceful, with violence neither from security forces nor the crowds.On Monday night, hundreds of youths waving flags celebrated Mr. Bouteflika’s decision in Algiers. Cars honked horns and families poured out into the streets.“It’s a very important moment, because power in Algeria has never backed down,” said Benjamin Stora, a leading historian of Algeria. “Two weeks ago, this was unimaginable.“And then, there have been no deaths. It’s a great moment in the history of the Mediterranean Basin — a president who retreats, and nobody is killed. It’s really very important.”But it was unclear whether the announcement would fully satisfy the protesters, or indeed how much ground Mr. Bouteflika had in fact given up.The announcement suggested that, although the April 18 election was canceled and Mr. Bouteflika would no longer be a candidate, he still intended to hang on at least until a successor was chosen, in an election that so far has not been scheduled.“I commit myself, if God grants me life and help,” he said, “to transmit the duties and prerogatives of the president of the republic to the successor that the Algerian people will have freely chosen.”That escape clause quickly led some in the Algerian opposition to suspect that the wily president had maneuvered his way out of a tight spot, that a veteran politician who had survived more than a half century of regime changes in his troubled country had once again come out on top.“Bouteflika is not running, but he’s going to remain as president beyond April 2019,” Abdelaziz Rahabi, a former communications minister, wrote on Facebook. “To arrogance, he adds contempt. His unhealthy obsession with power is a threat to the stability of the state and the unity of the nation.”Even if Mr. Bouteflika did step down, there was no assurance that the small circle actually running the country — the army, the president’s brother, a few powerful industrial bosses who have received lucrative state contracts — would relinquish power.“The decisions announced today are a partial victory for the people’s movement,” one of the country’s leading human rights lawyers, Moustapha Bouchachi, said in a video on Facebook. “But the demands of Algerians are not limited simply to a delay in the elections, and the dropping of a fifth term. What we’re talking about is a transition period, and a government of national consensus.”The official statement on Monday also said that a convention would be called to write a new constitution, and that a new government would be formed.But it gave no date for the convention or for new elections. And Mr. Bouteflika’s vow that he would “watch over all the constitutional institutions” suggested that he, or at least those around him, intended to keep a tight grip on essential functions for an unspecified period.The statement gave a nod to the group that forced the government’s hand Monday: Algeria’s youth. “I especially understand the message of the young, anxious and ambitious over their own future and that of country,” it said.But the announcement was unlikely to satisfy the youthful protesters once the initial euphoria wore off. Previous concessions by Mr. Bouteflika, including plans to set early elections should he win a new term in April, had also  failed to temper public outrage.“It’s a first victory,” said an Algerian political scientist, Lahouari Addi, an emeritus professor at the Institute of Political Studies in Lyon, France. “It’s a first concession. But the street will demand more. It’s a revolutionary situation.”He said protesters would most likely demand that the army “stop designating the president and the government.”The protests were the biggest in Algeria in at least three decades. Tens of thousands turned out Friday, and the demonstrations continued over the weekend, even as Mr. Bouteflika returned from hospital treatment in Geneva.His paralysis was seen by demonstrators as a symbol of Algeria, a place where unemployment affects perhaps a quarter of the population, institutions are rubber stamps for the ruling elite, and hundreds of people a year attempt the dangerous crossing to Europe. Parliament is powerless, and although there are elements of a free press, journalists are regularly harassed.The massive protests have already evoked comparisons to the demonstrations that toppled the longtime rulers of Tunisia and Egypt in early 2011 and set off the wave of uprisings across the region that became known as the Arab Spring.Commentators in the region speculated on the potential impact of Mr. Bouteflika’s capitulation on Sudan, where months of street demonstrations have demanded the resignation of the longtime strongman, Omar al-Bashir, who is 75 years old and has ruled for 30 years.Sudan, like Algeria, had largely escaped the upheaval in 2011, in part because the painful memories of earlier episodes of civil strife were still fresh. But unlike his Algerian counterpart, Mr. al-Bashir is struggling to quell demonstrations while the Sudanese economy is teetering on the brink of collapse.The events in Algeria “may encourage the Sudanese people to stay the course and maintain their resilience, to try to push out Bashir,” Suliman Baldo, a Sudanese human rights advocate who is now in the United States, said in a telephone interview.But he doubted the Algerian example would do much to dislodge Mr. Bashir from power, noting that the Algerian security forces had refrained from bloody confrontation with the demonstrators but the Sudanese have cracked down with increasing force since a declaration of emergency last month.“If you see the way that the police and security forces behaved in Algeria it was really very responsible,” Mr. Baldo said. “In Sudan they were ferocious. They have not hesitated to use live ammunition and now, under the state of emergency, they have started walking into houses and beating people in their own homes. They are acting above the law.”Other Arab rulers, too, have signaled that they were watching the Algerian protests with some trepidation. President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, who rose to power promising to restore order after the Egyptian uprising of 2011, has made little effort to hide his apprehension that the protests in Algeria and Sudan could inspire new unrest in Egypt.Protesters around the region were “ruining” their countries, he told Egyptians in a televised speech Sunday, and warned that more demonstrations would damage the already-struggling economy. “How are tourism or factories or trade supposed to get off the ground? Should we eat, or should we say that we were busy protesting?”Hadjer Guenanfa contributed reporting from Algiers, and David D. Kirkpatrick from London.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael S. Schmidt, Ben Protess and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — President Trump’s lead lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, said Wednesday that lawyers for several people facing scrutiny from the Justice Department in the investigations into the Trump campaign and presidency had contacted him to see whether the president would pardon their clients.Mr. Giuliani declined to identify the lawyers who broached the subject with him or their clients. He made his statement in response to questions about Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen, who has told federal prosecutors in Manhattan about pardon discussions last year that involved Mr. Giuliani and a lawyer who was expressing interest in representing Mr. Cohen, according to people briefed on the matter.The disclosure from Mr. Giuliani — and the new details about pardon discussions involving Mr. Cohen — highlighted again the continued questions about Mr. Trump’s pardon power and how he might use it as the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III; other federal prosecutors; and Democrats in Congress investigate his political and business careers.The discussions acknowledged by Mr. Giuliani demonstrate that, at the very least, some of those under investigation, or their lawyers, believed that it was worthwhile to ask about whether a pardon was on the table.Mr. Giuliani, who has been representing Mr. Trump since last spring, said he always insisted to defense lawyers that Mr. Trump would not consider granting pardons until the investigations were long over.Mr. Giuliani’s account of his stance contrasts with the initial approach taken by the first head of Mr. Trump’s legal team, John M. Dowd, who had discussions with lawyers for Paul Manafort and Michael T. Flynn in 2017 about pardons.And Mr. Giuliani’s statement comes as the White House is seeking to undermine Mr. Cohen’s credibility on a wide range of issues after his scathingly critical testimony about Mr. Trump on Capitol Hill last week.“I always gave one answer, and they always left disappointed,” Mr. Giuliani said.Mr. Giuliani said he could not confirm that such a conversation took place with lawyers for Mr. Cohen, citing attorney-client privilege.What took place around the discussion of pardons became more complicated late Wednesday after The Wall Street Journal reported that Mr. Cohen’s current lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, said that Mr. Cohen had directed Stephen M. Ryan, his lawyer in 2018, to ask Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers about a pardon.That appeared to directly contradict Mr. Cohen’s testimony last week to the House Oversight and Reform Committee, in which he said that he had never sought a pardon from the president, and would not accept one. But Mr. Davis insisted that Mr. Cohen was referring to after July 2018, when his and the president’s lawyers no longer had a formal agreement to work together on their defenses.Reached late Wednesday, Mr. Davis said that Mr. Ryan had contacted Mr. Trump’s lawyers as a response to their strategy of “dangling” a potential pardon.“At that point in time, when he was still part of their club, he was willing to explore it,” Mr. Davis said of Mr. Cohen. “Nothing came of it, and he got more frustrated that he was” being toyed with, he added.Mr. Davis said that the new information did not contradict what Mr. Cohen said in his testimony because at that time, “he was talking about the period where he had made his decision to tell the truth.”He added, “And that new Michael Cohen authorized me to say publicly he wouldn’t accept a pardon if Donald Trump offered it.”Mr. Trump has not granted any pardons to anyone directly linked to the investigations into his business activities, his campaign or his presidency.The issue of pardons has hung over the investigations into links between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia and whether the president obstructed justice since the inquiries began two years ago. Mr. Mueller has investigated whether Mr. Trump dangled pardons to stop Mr. Flynn from cooperating, and Mr. Mueller wanted to question Mr. Trump about the matter.Testifying behind closed doors on Wednesday before the House Intelligence Committee, Mr. Cohen was pressed on whether he sought out or was offered a potential pardon.The Washington Post reported on Saturday that the House and Senate Intelligence Committees were investigating whether Mr. Cohen had discussions about a potential pardon. The House Judiciary Committee has also announced that it would examine the “misuse of the pardon power” as part of a sweeping investigation into the president, his administration and his family businesses.Mr. Cohen recently provided information to federal prosecutors in Manhattan about the pardon discussions as part of his effort to assist the authorities and potentially reduce his lengthy prison sentence.He faces three years behind bars for personal financial crimes and for making illegal hush money payments on behalf of Mr. Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign to women who said they had sexual encounters with Mr. Trump.Mr. Cohen told the prosecutors in Manhattan that the pardon discussions happened after searches that the authorities conducted on his residence and office in April 2018. He described to the prosecutors how a lawyer who was considering representing him, Robert J. Costello, had spoken with Mr. Giuliani.Prosecutors have obtained a cryptic email that Mr. Costello sent Mr. Cohen assuring him that he had raised some issue of importance with Mr. Giuliani, according to the people briefed on the matter.The prosecutors followed up with Mr. Cohen to ask for additional details about the pardon discussions, the people said, though there was no indication that they suspected anyone involved in the conversations of wrongdoing.ABC News reported on Wednesday that lawyers claiming to have ties to Mr. Giuliani sought out Mr. Cohen to discuss his options as prosecutors closed in on him last year.It was not clear that Mr. Costello was ever formally retained by Mr. Cohen. Mr. Costello declined to comment, citing attorney-client privilege, but added that he would be free to comment if Mr. Cohen waived that privilege.Mr. Giuliani said that Mr. Cohen should waive the privilege if he was confident in his version of events, and insisted that he personally had never urged anyone to do anything other than cooperate with the investigations. He said his discussions with Mr. Cohen’s lawyers were always when they were sharing information under a joint defense agreement.“I would say with a few lawyers: You shouldn’t make any decision based on the assumption of a pardon,” Mr. Giuliani said in recounting the discussions.A spokeswoman for the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan declined to comment.It is unclear who broached the subject of a potential pardon — Mr. Cohen or Mr. Costello. In his testimony last week before the House Oversight and Reform Committee, Mr. Cohen declared in his opening statement, “I have never asked for, nor would I accept, a pardon from President Trump.”One person familiar with the talks said they centered on whether Mr. Cohen could be given a “pre-pardon” — a way of potentially absolving him of wrongdoing before he could be indicted.The pardon discussions only progressed so far. Last August, Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to a litany of crimes, including for arranging hush money payments. Mr. Trump and his lawyers subsequently began a series of attacks on Mr. Cohen’s credibility. Mr. Trump has since called him a “rat.”Mr. Cohen, who is scheduled to begin serving his three-year prison sentence in May, made an oblique reference in his public testimony last week before the oversight panel to the inquiry from the federal prosecutors from the Southern District of New York.When asked by a Democratic lawmaker about his most recent communications with Mr. Trump or someone acting on his behalf, Mr. Cohen replied, “Unfortunately, this topic is actually something that’s being investigated right now by the Southern District of New York, and I’ve been asked by them not to discuss it.”An earlier version of this article misstated when the authorities conducted searches on Michael D. Cohen’s residence and office. It was 2018, not 2017.Michael S. Schmidt and Maggie Haberman reported from Washington, and Ben Protess from New York.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan YuhasA widespread blackout enveloped much of Venezuela in darkness on Thursday night, stopping subway service in the capital and causing problems around the country, which has been plagued by power failures as its economic crisis has worsened.The power failure appeared to be more severe than others, however, and the government of President Nicolás Maduro moved quickly to blame its opponents.The minister of electrical power, Luis Motta Domínguez, said on state television that the blackout was caused by an “attack” on the Guri Dam, a large hydroelectric facility in east Venezuela. Information Minister Jorge Rodríguez, also on the state news network, said that right-wing “criminals” had committed “sabotage” to the dam’s system of generation and distribution.The officials did not say how much of the country had been affected by the blackout.Mr. Maduro accused the United States of orchestrating the power failure, writing on Twitter, “The electrical war announced and directed by the imperialist United States against our people will be defeated.”Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said late Thursday that the responsibility rested with Mr. Maduro’s government.“The power outage and the devastation hurting ordinary Venezuelans is not because of the USA,” he wrote on Twitter. “It’s not because of Colombia. It’s not Ecuador or Brazil, Europe or anywhere else. Power shortages and starvation are the result of the Maduro regime’s incompetence.”Juan Guaidó, the opposition leader whom the United States has recognized as Venezuela’s leader, also linked the blackout to the government authorities.“How do you tell a mother who has to cook, an ill person who depends on a machine, and a laborer who needs to work that they’re in a powerful country without light?” he asked on Twitter. He added: “The light will come with the end of the usurpation.”On social media, many used the hashtag #SinLuz, or Without Light, to share photos and video of cities in nearly total darkness, and of Venezuelans, unable to use public transportation, walking in large numbers through city streets lit only by car headlights. Local news reports showed large traffic jams caused by failed traffic lights.Venezuela has suffered periodic power failures for months, as its electrical system has deteriorated along with much of the country’s infrastructure. Though it was once one of South America’s most prosperous nations, its economy has collapsed because of mismanagement and corruption, leaving people starving and without medical supplies. Millions of Venezuelans have fled the country on foot.The economic crisis spawned a political one in January, when Mr. Guaidó declared himself president and was formally recognized as the country’s leader by several dozen nations, the United States among them. American officials imposed additional sanctions on Mr. Maduro’s government and have tried to deliver aid, which the Venezuelan authorities — accusing the Americans of trying to force regime change — have largely blocked at the borders.Austin Ramzy contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Pérez-PeñaMost of the European Union’s member countries on Monday recognized Juan Guaidó as the legitimate leader of Venezuela, turning decisively against President Nicolás Maduro after he refused their demand to schedule a new presidential election.The countries — including Austria, Britain, Denmark, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain and others — joined the United States, Canada, Australia and much of Latin America in withdrawing recognition of Mr. Maduro’s government and acknowledging Mr. Guaidó, the opposition leader, as the interim president pending elections.Nicolas Maduro has not called Presidential elections within 8 day limit we have set. So UK alongside European allies now recognises @jguaido as interim constitutional president until credible elections can be held. Let’s hope this takes us closer to ending humanitarian crisisMr. Maduro easily won re-election last year, despite the collapsing economy, endemic corruption and repression in Venezuela, in a vote that his opponents and international observers said was heavily rigged.In early January, the National Assembly labeled Mr. Maduro an illegitimate “usurper,” and on Jan. 23, Mr. Guaidó, the leader of the assembly, had himself sworn in as interim president.A group of European countries had given Mr. Maduro until midnight Sunday to schedule a new, free and fair presidential election, and several explicitly warned that they would withdraw recognition if he did not. Mr. Maduro refused to order the new elections, and on Monday, the European countries followed through on the threat.“Venezuelans have the right to express themselves freely and democratically,”  President Emmanuel Macron of France wrote on Twitter, adding that his government recognized Mr. Guaidó as “president in charge,” to carry out elections.The British foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, said on Twitter that Mr. Guaidó was being acknowledged as “interim constitutional president until credible elections can be held.”Also on Monday, the Vatican confirmed that Mr. Maduro had sent a letter to Pope Francis, asking for “a dialogue.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian AustenOTTAWA — Another minister in the cabinet of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada quit in protest on Monday over accusations that he and his aides tried to influence a criminal case against a multinational Canadian company accused of bribing the Libyan government.The unexpected resignation, by Jane Philpott, who led the treasury board, inflames a growing political crisis that has already cost Mr. Trudeau his former justice minister and his top aide.“I’ve been considering the events that have shaken the government in recent weeks and after serious reflection, I have concluded that I must resign as a member of cabinet,” said Ms. Philpott, who was also a former health minister and minister of Indigenous affairs.It grieves me to resign from a portfolio where I was at work to deliver an important mandate. I must abide by my core values, my ethical responsibilities, constitutional obligations. There can be a cost to acting on one’s principles, but there is a bigger cost to abandoning them. pic.twitter.com/EwO5dtdgG6Speaking to a Liberal party rally in Toronto on Monday night, Mr. Trudeau thanked Ms. Philpott for her service.“I know that Ms. Philpott has felt this way for some time,” Mr. Trudeau said during a speech, which was occasionally interrupted by hecklers. “While I’m disappointed, I understand her decision.”Mr. Trudeau said that the political controversy “has generated important discussion” and added that “there are more questions to be answered and more to be said in the coming days and weeks.”With a federal election looming seven months away, Mr. Trudeau must now not only salvage his reputation as someone who promised an open approach to politics, but may be in peril of losing control of his position as leader of the Liberal Party, which would end his time as prime minister.On Monday, Andrew Scheer, the Conservative leader, repeated his call for Mr. Trudeau to step down and called on other cabinet ministers to follow Ms. Philpott’s example.In announcing her decision, Ms. Philpott cited accusations that Mr. Trudeau and his aides had exerted improper and excessive pressure on the justice minister and attorney general at the time, Jody Wilson-Raybould, to seek a settlement in the criminal case against the company, SNC-Lavalin.A criminal conviction would have barred the company from bidding on government contracts for a decade, potentially leading to major job losses in Quebec, where it has its headquarters.[You can read more here about the SNC-Lavalin case and how it has entangled Mr. Trudeau.]Ms. Wilson-Raybould resisted the pressure, and quit the cabinet last month. Ms. Philpott was among the few cabinet ministers to publicly side with her.“There can be a cost to acting on one’s principles, but there is a bigger cost to abandoning them,” Ms. Philpott wrote in her resignation letter to Mr. Trudeau on Monday.Privately, several members of his caucus have said Mr. Trudeau has badly fumbled his handling of the controversy. Publicly, though, they have spoken in solidarity with the prime minister.Royce Koop, a political scientist at the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg, said that might now change.“Philpott was really the talent pool of the Trudeau cabinet, she got things done,” he said. “The question now is do we now start to see the beginning of a caucus rebellion? I haven’t heard that anything is happening. But this is going to shift opinion in the caucus.”But Professor Koop said he’s seen nothing to suggest that Ms. Wilson-Raybould was trying to lead a movement to eject Mr. Trudeau as the party leader and, thus, prime minister.Both Ms. Wilson-Raybould and Ms. Philpott, who was a doctor before entering politics in 2015, were recruited by Mr. Trudeau to enter politics in the 2015 election. Neither has developed a strong political machine to support their new careers.Both former ministers worked closely together on some of Mr. Trudeau’s signature achievements, including the legalization of medical marijuana and, before that, right-to-die legislation. Both say they intend to remain in the Liberal caucus.Mr. Trudeau’s troubles began nearly a month ago when The Globe and Mail, citing anonymous sources, said Mr. Trudeau and his aides had improperly pressured Ms. Wilson-Raybould to use a newly created law to work out a settlement for SNC-Lavalin that would have seen it pay a substantial fine to avoid a criminal conviction.Canadian authorities have accused the company of paying 47.7 million Canadian dollars in bribes to officials in Libya to win contracts there, and defrauding the Libyan government and its agencies of 129.8 million Canadian dollars.In January, Ms. Wilson-Raybould was moved by Mr. Trudeau from justice minister and attorney general to veterans affairs minister, which many saw as a demotion and a slight to the one remaining Indigenous member of the cabinet. On Feb. 12, she resigned.Last week in testimony before the House of Commons’ justice committee, Ms. Wilson-Raybould described 10 meetings, 10 conversations and a series of email exchanges in which Mr. Trudeau, his senior aides and others, in her view, improperly pressured her to cut a deal with the company.She testified that while no one broke the law they crossed informal lines in Canada that are supposed to isolate prosecutors from politics by mentioning the potential political consequences for the Liberals of shutting SNC-Lavalin out of government business.Mr. Trudeau has said he disagrees with Ms. Wilson-Raybould’s characterizations of events. Several senior Liberals have said that many others share his view.Gerald Butts, a close friend of Mr. Trudeau’s who quit as his top political aide after the initial news articles about the accusations, is set to testify before a parliamentary committee on Wednesday.Ken Coates, a political historian at the University of Saskatchewan in Saskatoon, said Ms. Philpott’s resignation was the most significant act of cabinet revolt in about 50 years.“To have a minister not directly involved in all this stand up and resign — it’s astounding,” Professor Coates said. “We’re now in a new world.”An earlier version of this article misstated the day Jane Philpott resigned from her position in the prime minister’s cabinet. She quit her post on Monday, not Wednesday.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________• The Senate voted to overturn President Trump’s national emergency declaration at the southwest border, delivering a bipartisan rebuke for what lawmakers in both parties deemed executive overreach. The 59-41 vote on the House-passed measure sets up the first veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency.• House Republicans joined Democrats to demand that the Justice Department publicly release the full findings of Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and the possible involvement of Mr. Trump’s campaign.• Three votes in Congress this week — rebuking Mr. Trump over Saudi Arabia, blocking his national emergency declaration and demanding a public release of the Mueller report — demonstrated a newfound willingness among some of Mr. Trump’s Republican allies to stand up to him.• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has been personally pushing China to give the American film industry greater access to its markets. That has raised ethical questions, given his ties to Hollywood.• Mr. Mnuchin signaled that he would block a congressional request to obtain Mr. Trump’s tax returns on privacy grounds, setting up a potential legal battle if Democrats follow through.• New evidence suggests that Russian spies used networks run by Aleksej Gubarev, a tech entrepreneur, to hack the Democratic Party in 2016 — much as the so-called Steele dossier, which purported to detail Russian interference in the election, alleged.• Facing billions of dollars in cleanup costs, the Pentagon is pushing the Trump administration to adopt a weaker standard for groundwater pollution caused by chemicals that have commonly been used at military bases.• Afghanistan’s national security adviser accused the American special envoy of seeking personal benefit by sidelining the Afghan government in peace talks with the Taliban, “increasing the legitimacy of the Taliban” and “decreasing the legitimacy of the Afghan government.”_____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Laura M. HolsonIn the latest attempt to reflect its Polynesian heritage, the Cook Islands is considering changing its name.A government-backed committee is exploring the issue, according to Danny Mataroa, one of the committee’s members and a longtime advocate of a name change. The Cook Islands, named after Capt. James Cook, the British explorer who visited the South Pacific area in the mid-1770s, became a self-governing territory in 1965 and has sought to rename itself several times since.“We are old enough now,” Mr. Mataroa said in an interview Tuesday. “We are doing O.K. Now we can have a name we choose.”When Cook sailed upon the islands northeast of New Zealand, he found an Indigenous population made up of descendants from French Polynesia. Spanning 15 islands, the Cooks were named a British protectorate in 1888. The area was popular among seafaring captains who roamed the ocean and harpooned whale, which were prized for their meat and oil.Now, the majority of the population lives on Rarotonga, the largest island with a population of about 13,000. (The islands have 17,000 inhabitants over all.) The Cooks is in free association with New Zealand, which has a large population of Cook Islanders living there.Inhabitants have sought to change the Cooks name before to reflect Maori, a local Indigenous language; discussions go back to the 1970s, Mr. Mataroa said.But it was in 1994 when a name change was put to a vote and rejected. Then, Prime Minister Sir Geoffrey Henry approved a referendum to acknowledge a Maori name for Cook Islands, while retaining the original name in English. The majority of voters, though, voted against the measure.The economy is supported by tourism, banking and the exports of local goods. In 2013, international finance regulators cracked down on investment trusts set up on the Cook Islands, saying it had become an offshore haven for investors in Palm Beach, New York and Hollywood who sought to avoid paying taxes.A committee with 19 members was convened in January by Pa Marie Ariki, a member of a group of tribal leaders that advises the government on matters related to culture and custom, Mr. Mataroa said. So far, the committee has gathered 60 names from the public and has the support of tribal leaders across the Cook Islands.Mr. Mataroa said the committee was considering names with these requirements: It should not be more than 15 letters, have no more than four syllables and be easy to explain in English. Mr. Mataroa said the group hoped to narrow down the list by April.Names would be presented to the government and could be voted upon in a referendum, Thomas Wynne, a government media adviser who is on the advisory committee, said Tuesday. If approved by the public and the government, an amendment to the constitution would be needed to change the name.Deputy Prime Minister Mark Brown, a member of the Cook Islands Party, did not respond to a request for comment Tuesday. But Mr. Brown told Radio New Zealand in a March interview that he supported the name change and wanted to hear more comments from Cook Islanders.“I’m quite happy to look at a traditional name for our country which reflects the true Polynesian nature of our island nation,” he said. He added that it seemed likely that a referendum would be needed to make the change.The Democratic Party leader, Tina Browne, did not respond to a request for comment on Tuesday.Mr. Mataroa said he and his fellow committee members were seeking public opinion, a challenge given that the population is spread across more than a dozen islands and two million square miles. “It is going to be a long, expensive process,” he said.Jack Begg contributed research.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kirk SempleThe governments of the United States and Canada have warned people not to travel to Haiti as violent protests against President Jovenel Moïse continued on Friday in the capital and other cities in the Caribbean nation for the ninth straight day.Protesters, who have demanded Mr. Moïse’s ouster, have blocked roads with burning tires, metal fencing and cinder blocks, paralyzing transportation in the capital, forcing the closing of businesses, government offices and schools, and causing shortages of food and fuel. Clashes between demonstrators and the police have left several people dead and spread fear throughout the population.The sustained unrest this month is the latest eruption of public anger at the Moïse administration and, more broadly, the Haitian government over economic malaise and rampant corruption.In its travel advisory, the State Department urged American citizens not to travel to Haiti due to crime and civil unrest.” In another advisory, the United States Embassy in Haiti urged Americans “to strongly consider departing as soon as they safely can do so.”The United States government has also ordered the departure of all “nonemergency” American personnel and their family members.The Canadian government, in its starkly worded advisory on Thursday, said: “Avoid all travel to Haiti.”The uprising this month is a continuation of protests that began last year, spurred by a social media campaign focusing on allegations that Haiti’s government had misappropriated billions of dollars intended for reconstruction after a devastating earthquake in 2010. The money had come from a Venezuela-sponsored oil program, PetroCaribe, which sent discounted oil to Haiti.An investigation by the Haitian Senate accused former government officials of having embezzled the funds.While the protests last year were initially centered on demands for an accounting of the missing money, and for prosecutions of those responsible, they quickly evolved to become a referendum on the Moïse administration. The anger has been fueled by the nation’s worsening economy, which has suffered soaring inflation, anemic growth, flagging exports and a ballooning budget deficit.On Thursday night, Mr. Moïse, who won the presidency in November 2016 after a lengthy electoral process marred by allegations of voter fraud, made his first public statements since the current spate of protests began on Feb. 7.Rejecting the demands for his resignation, the president called for dialogue with his opponents and promised to announce economic measures in the hope of subduing the discontent.“I heard the voice of the people,” he said. “I know the problems that torment them.”But protesters, unmollified, once again took to the streets on Friday. Demonstrations erupted in various neighborhoods around the capital and elsewhere in the country. The police in Port-au-Prince fired tear gas and rubber bullets at one contingent of protesters.In a travel advisory posted Thursday, the State Department painted a grim security picture of Haiti.“Violent crime, such as armed robbery, is common,” it said. “Local police may lack the resources to respond effectively to serious criminal incidents, and emergency response, including ambulance service, is limited or nonexistent.”On Friday, The Canadian Press reported that 113 tourists from Canada who have been trapped by the unrest in a Haitian resort would be evacuated in helicopters to the Port-au-Prince airport and then flown out of the country.This week, an international governmental group that monitors Haiti called on the country’s leaders to engage in “a constructive and inclusive dialogue” to resolve the crisis.The group — which includes representatives of the United Nations, the European Union, the United States and several other countries — also urged the Haitian government to accelerate structural reforms.“Change must come through the ballot box, and not through violence,” the group said.As the protests have gone on, Mr. Moïse appears to have become more isolated, with an increasing number of leaders from civil society and the political class, including some allies, urging him to engage in dialogue with opposition leaders or even to resign, analysts said.“You have seen people close to him making statements, expressing concern over the lack of leadership, the lack of comments, the lack of a plan to address the crisis,” said Jake Johnston, a research associate at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, which is based in Washington.Mr. Johnston said that while it’s conceivable that Mr. Moïse can weather this immediate crisis, unless he takes “concrete action” to address the economic malaise and evidence of corruption, “the likelihood of him being able to maintain a coalition that support him in power will be more and more difficult.”Andre Paultre contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Raphael MinderSpain’s former leader told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that Catalan separatist leaders should bear full responsibility for the chaos and clashes during their 2017 independence referendum, insisting that he played no part in directing the national police to use force to block people from voting.Mariano Rajoy, the former prime minister, was the most prominent among the many witnesses called to testify during the landmark trial of 12 former leaders of the Catalonia region of Spain. They are facing prison sentences of up to 25 years if convicted on charges of staging a rebellion during the botched attempt to secede unilaterally from the rest of Spain in October 2017.In an attempt to turn the tables on Spain’s central government, a defense lawyer for the separatists showed Mr. Rajoy television footage of the chaotic and unconstitutional referendum in October 2017, in which Spanish police officers were filmed hitting voters with their truncheons.“I have sadly seen many images of this kind during my life,” Mr. Rajoy told the court. “What I would like to say is that the responsibility of political leaders is to avoid events like those that we have seen. If they acted by respecting the law, we would not have seen these images, nor other similar ones.”“I greatly regret these images,” he added.“If people had not been convened to an illegal referendum, nobody would have seen the injuries that some people suffered and members of the security forces,” Mr. Rajoy said.He also insisted that the Catalan separatist leaders “were perfectly aware from day one” that his government would never allow a referendum on independence, nor accept offers for third-party mediation.“There was never a negotiator,” Mr. Rajoy said, when asked about an attempt by the leader of the Basque region to help break the deadlock. “Spain is what all Spaniards want it to be — and not just some Spaniards.”The result of the referendum — which passed overwhelmingly but with many abstentions — was immediately declared null and void by Spain’s judiciary. Nevertheless, the separatist majority in the Catalan regional Parliament declared independence weeks later.That prompted Mr. Rajoy to impose direct rule from Madrid over the restive region and oust its separatist government, led by Carles Puigdemont, who fled to Brussels to avoid prosecution in Spain.Mr. Rajoy said his government imposed direct rule over Catalonia following a long debate.“I believe we were very prudent and made an effort to get the support of everybody, including giving a chance to change course to those whom we believed had made the wrong decision,” he said.The trial, which began about two weeks ago, is expected to last some three months. That means that it will not be over by the time Spaniards return to the polls on April 28, when Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez has called a snap general election.Mr. Sánchez, who leads a minority Socialist government, called the election after losing the support of his erstwhile Catalan allies in Parliament and suffering a major defeat when lawmakers rejected his national budget.Catalonia is expected to feature heavily in the election campaign because the main opposition parties promise to snuff out the ongoing secessionism challenge from the region if elected. Pablo Casado, who replaced Mr. Rajoy as leader of the conservative Popular Party, recently accused Mr. Sánchez of treason for holding unsuccessful talks with the current separatist leader of Catalonia, Quim Torra.Instead, the Popular Party and the anti-secessionist party Ciudadanos want to restore direct rule over Catalonia unless Mr. Torra fully abandons his independence ambitions. Going a step further, Vox, a far-right party, wants to put Spain back under tight central control and abolish the system of regional governments that was created as part of Spain’s return to democracy after the death of Gen. Francisco Franco in 1975.Vox is hoping to gain its first seats in the national Parliament in April, following a breakthrough in a regional election in Andalusia in December. Lawyers for Vox are also seeking much longer prison sentences for the 12 defendants in the Supreme Court trial than those sought by state prosecutors.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam NossiterPARIS — For a third successive week, tens of thousands of people took to the streets of the capital and cities across Algeria on Friday to protest a fifth term for the country’s gravely ill president, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, as new cracks opened in the longstanding authoritarian regime.Many of the protesters on Friday started marching even before the end of weekly prayers, a new development in what has become a wildfire popular revolt organized largely through social media.The streets of Algiers were so packed with demonstrators that movement inside the crowds was impossible, observers reported. At one point crowds forced through barriers blocking access to the presidential palace, the Mouradia.The demonstrations were largely nonviolent although there were some clashes between demonstrators and the police, who used tear gas. The police detained 195 people, Algerian state television reported.“This is a revolutionary situation,” said Lahouari Addi, an Algeria specialist who is emeritus professor at the Institute of Political Studies in Lyon. “The protests are huge. It’s the whole population that wants to see them go.”As important, ruling party members, top business leaders and even the mouthpiece of the country’s powerful armed force began siding with the demonstrators.On Friday seven prominent members of the ruling National Liberation Front party — successor to the liberation movement that freed Algeria from French rule — resigned from the party to express support for the protesters, according to Algerian media.Earlier in the week, the powerful organization of former liberation-war combatants, the Moujahidin, saluted the “civilized behavior” of the anti-government demonstrators and denounced corruption “at the heart of the power hierarchy.” Several chief executives have resigned from the industry bosses’ league in support of the protest as well, though its head remains close to Mr. Bouteflika.Perhaps most significant, El Djeich, the magazine of the country’s powerful army, published an editorial on Friday hinting at support for the mainly youthful protesters.In the veiled language typically used by the country’s nomenklatura, the editorial spoke of the Algerian army’s “common destiny” with the people, the “unity of their shared vision of the future,” and hailed the country’s youth as “no less patriotic than the youth of yesterday.”The army — in the person of its chief of staff, 79-year-old Mohamed Gaïd Salah — is at the heart of the clique that rules Algeria today. Analysts said the editorial in El Djeich had implications for the country’s future, and for the army’s current posture.“It shows that they are at sea,” Mr. Addi said in a telephone interview from Lyon. “They are looking for a way out, and they are saying to the people, ‘We are with you.’ ”Mr. Bouteflika has not publicly addressed the country in seven years. Barely able to talk because of his stroke, he is represented at government rallies by his framed portrait, known as “The Frame.” He is currently undergoing treatment in Switzerland, where on Friday the police arrested a popular opposition activist, Rachid Nekkaz, who was demonstrating at Mr. Bouteflika’s hospital.The anti-government demonstrations began several weeks ago after the ruling party indicated that, despite the president’s evident infirmity, Mr. Bouteflika would again be a candidate for a fifth term of office.That was enough for many Algerians who have until now abided awkwardly for years under the rule of an absentee president while those around him shared the spoils of power.Within days, protesters took to the streets, some with placards reading, ‘‘Game Over.’’ The demonstrations — in themselves extraordinary under the authoritarian regime — have grown weekly since.With no single figure in the opposition capable of uniting the protesters, Mr. Addi said it was impossible to predict how the situation would resolve itself, a view shared by other seasoned Algeria-watchers.“It could be a government of national unity,” he said. “It could be a committee of public safety. Nobody knows.”Last weekend, in an effort to hold off even bigger demonstrations, the government offered to set early elections should Mr. Bouteflika win a new term in April — an outcome Algerians consider a foregone conclusion — but that did not appease the street.In the streets of Algiers on Friday, the protesters insisted on their determination to keep marching until their goal was achieved — Mr. Bouteflika’s bowing out of the election.“This movement is giving me hope, hope that I had lost,” said Meriem, a 54-year-old university professor who, like others, declined to give her last name for fear of government reprisals. “And we hope that the protests will organize themselves. Sure, we’re always afraid of violence. But better to be afraid than to die a slow death. And in any case, I hope it is them who are afraid today.”“I’m demonstrating today because they have made us hate our lives,” said Samia, a 30-year-old mother of two who lives in the suburbs of Algiers. Her children “have no place to play,” she said. “We’ve tried to free ourselves for years. And we’re still waiting.”Mohamed Lamine, a 22-year-old student, said: “It’s the whole system I want to get rid of. I know very well that when I finish my studies, I have no future in this country.”One of the country’s leading opposition figures, Mohcine Belabbas, predicted that the movement would continue. And he suggested that a larger goal had overtaken the original one of Mr. Bouteflika’s ouster.“The people have a determination to fight it out with the system,” said Mr. Belabbas, head of the Rally for Culture and Democracy party, who joined the protesters in the streets of Algiers on Friday. “There can’t be any turning back.”It’s not just about rejecting a fifth term for Bouteflika, he said.“It’s a rejection of the whole system,” he said. “We are in a political moment like the one preceding the outbreak of the Algerian Revolution.”Hadjer Guenanfa contributed reporting from Algiers.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThey’ve brought down a government. Now they could bring down the entire country.By Omar G. EncarnaciónMr. Encarnación is a professor and expert on Spanish politics.Anyone looking for evidence of how irrational politics can be should look to Catalonia right now.Earlier this month, Catalan separatists in the Spanish Parliament voted against the 2019 national budget proposal of the Socialist prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, forcing a snap general election in late April. The separatists were retaliating against Mr. Sánchez because he would not agree to a referendum on Catalan independence. The last referendum, organized in October 2017, which was declared illegal by Spain’s Constitutional Tribunal and boycotted by those opposed to independence, plunged Spain into its deepest political crisis since the death of Gen. Francisco Franco in 1975.In forcing early elections and the potential fall of the Sánchez government, which came to power in June following a vote of no confidence against Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of the conservative Popular Party, the Catalan separatists appear willing to forfeit the best chance they have had in decades to advance Catalan autonomy. The Sánchez government has supported dialogue with Catalan separatists; appointed many Catalans to prominent cabinet positions, including Meritxell Batet, responsible for managing regional affairs; and agreed to a substantial increase in public spending in Catalonia for 2019. It even consented to talks about amending the Spanish Constitution to expand autonomy for all of Spain’s regions.Those gains could be quickly erased if the Popular Party is returned to power, something that the separatists were apparently aware of when they voted against the budget proposal. The newspaper El País reported that separatist leaders voted “with long faces” because they knew that they were most likely contributing to the rise of a new government that could reimpose direct control of Madrid over Catalonia as the Rajoy government did in 2017.Indeed, chances are that a new right-wing government in Madrid would be even more intolerant of Catalan separatism than Mr. Rajoy was. Since Mr. Rajoy’s departure from office, the Popular Party has hardened its stance on Catalan separatism, in no small measure because of the rise of Vox, a new far-right party that made a splash in regional elections in Andalusia in December, when it won 12 seats in the Andalusian Parliament on a platform that combined anti-immigrant rhetoric with a hard line on the Catalonia crisis. Vox has gone as far as to call for abolishing altogether Spain’s system of regional autonomy and outlawing separatist political parties.Why would the separatists possibly want this outcome? For the simple reason that a viable path to securing Catalan independence remains elusive. Since 2011, both conservative and social democratic governments in Madrid have rejected a state-sanctioned independence referendum for Catalonia. So Catalan separatists are now banking on political victimhood as the best strategy for rebooting the independence project. To do this, they need to depict Catalonia as the victim of Madrid’s brutal oppression in the hopes that this would earn their cause international support.Carles Puigdemont, the president of Catalonia until he fled to Belgium, where he remains today, to escape prosecution from Spanish authorities for having declared Catalonia an independent republic, has been exploiting the violence around the 2017 referendum to demonstrate the lengths that Madrid will go to deny Catalans the right to self-determination. On a recent trip to the United States, Quim Torra, Mr. Puigdemont’s successor, accused the Spanish government of violating civil and political rights in Catalonia and of holding “political prisoners.” At home, Catalan separatists have framed the trial that began this month of the 12 organizers of the illegal referendum on charges of rebellion and sedition as a persecution of Catalan nationalism.But for the victimhood strategy to succeed, the separatists need a better foil in Madrid than Mr. Sánchez and his Socialist government. Rather than dialogue and compromise, the separatists appear to desire intolerance and intransigence — maybe even a dose of violence. In other words, they want a Popular Party government supported by Vox and Ciudadanos, a center-right party from Catalonia that vehemently opposes Catalan independence. Because of the fragmentation of the party system, the results of an election more than a month away are difficult to predict. But given recent polling, it is easy to imagine the Popular Party — with support from Ciudadanos and Vox — being able to oust Mr. Sánchez.The consequences of a coalition government led by the Popular Party and incorporating Vox would extend far beyond the issue of Catalonia. It would be the first time the far right made it into a Spanish government since Franco’s death, and the toll on Spanish democracy would be enormous. It could bring an assault on the hard-won rights of women, immigrants and L.G.B.T. people. It could also unleash a wave of nationalism not seen in Spain since the Franco regime, one that would undermine regional home rule not only in Catalonia, but also in other regions like the Basque Country.Enabling the rise of the far right into government would also be a betrayal of the traditional values of the Catalan nationalist movement. Since the transition to democracy, this movement has placed Catalan autonomy ahead of independence. Its progressive wing, represented by the Republican Left of Catalonia, a political party founded in the 1930s, has a proud history of standing up for the rights of women, workers and sexual minorities. The separatists also need to consider that it is far from clear that a right-wing government would bring their region any closer to independence. In fact, the result of the strategy of victimization in Catalonia could well be to diminish democracy for Spain as a whole.Omar G. Encarnación is a professor of political studies at Bard College and the author of “Democracy without Justice in Spain: The Politics of Forgetting,” among other books.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
China’s vast detention program for Muslims has required more and more police officers. And recruits are coming from the very ethnic groups that are being suppressed.Baimurat, who lives in Kazakhstan, says he helped deliver hundreds of fellow Muslims to an indoctrination camp in China’s Xinjiang region. “I came to regret ever coming back to China,” he said. “That choice led me into doing such awful things.”CreditCreditEmile Ducke for The New York TimesSupported byBy Austin RamzyALMATY, Kazakhstan — The businesses he started had failed, and he had a wife and two children to support. So when the authorities in China’s far western Xinjiang region offered him a job with the auxiliary police, Baimurat welcomed the good pay and benefits.For months, he stood at roadside checkpoints, looking for people on the government’s blacklist, usually from Muslim ethnic minorities. As a Kazakh Muslim himself, he sometimes felt uncomfortable about his work, but he needed the money.Then he was asked to help bring 600 handcuffed people to a new facility — and was stunned by what he saw. Officials called it a job training center, but it was basically a prison, with toilets and beds behind bars. One detainee was an acquaintance he barely recognized because he had lost so much weight.Mr. Baimurat, 39, suppressed his emotions.“There are cameras everywhere,” he recalled, “and if they see you look unhappy, you will be in trouble.”The Chinese government has detained as many as a million ethnic Uighurs, Kazakhs and other Muslim minorities in a network of indoctrination camps across Xinjiang, provoking international condemnation. In doing so, it has vastly expanded the security apparatus in the sprawling, strategically important region on China’s western frontier.This rapid buildup has relied in large part on recruitment of officers from the same ethnic minorities that the authorities have targeted, dividing communities and families while forcing people like Mr. Baimurat to confront difficult choices.In a series of recent interviews in Kazakhstan, where he and his family fled last year, Mr. Baimurat offered a rare, firsthand glimpse into the workings of Xinjiang’s security forces — and the dilemmas that many employed by them grapple with daily.Mr. Baimurat, who goes by only one name, said he had decided to speak out because he regretted working for the police in Qitai county outside Urumqi, the regional capital. He also described how close he came to ending up in a camp himself.“I feel an obligation because I have seen so many people suffering in the camps,” he said.Hua Chunying, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, confirmed Mr. Baimurat worked in security in Qitai in the months he specified. But she said he was employed by a shopping center, not the police, and accused him of “all these lies.”In several interviews, though, Mr. Baimurat’s description of his experience has remained consistent, with details that match those in police recruitment notices and the accounts of former camp detainees. Auxiliary police in China are sometimes hired through private contractors who give police agencies more flexibility to add and reduce staff.Since going public last month, Mr. Baimurat has received anonymous telephone calls warning that his relatives in China would be placed into camps if he did not recant, said Serikzhan Bilash, an activist who helps ethnic Kazakhs from Xinjiang.Mr. Baimurat immigrated to Kazakhstan in 2009, but returned to Xinjiang a few years later, to be closer to family. After businesses he opened selling fruit and horse meat, a Kazakh specialty, failed, he joined the police in 2017, he said, earning a good salary — about $700 a month and decent benefits.His tasks included examining travelers’ vehicles and IDs at police checkpoints on major roads. He focused on people on government watch lists, searching their mobile phones for content considered subversive.In particular, officers were told to look for images of the deadly ethnic riots in Urumqi in 2009, Mr. Baimurat said.The authorities responded to that rioting with a security crackdown, which intensified after deadly attacks in 2013 and 2014 were blamed on Uighur separatists who embrace radical Islam. The government appointed a new regional leader in 2016 who tightened controls and blanketed Xinjiang with surveillance.That was when recruitment of auxiliary officers like Mr. Baimurat took off, according to James Leibold of La Trobe University in Australia and Adrian Zenz of the European School of Culture and Theology in Germany.By 2017, Xinjiang’s police force was more than five times the size it had been a decade earlier, according to a forthcoming paper by Mr. Zenz and Mr. Leibold. The government recruited ethnic minorities in particular, part of an effort to address simmering grievances by providing jobs.Decades of migration by Han, China’s dominant ethnic group, have transformed Xinjiang, fueling Uighur anxieties. Uighurs, once the majority, are 46 percent of the region’s 22 people million people, Han are 40 percent and Kazakhs 7 percent, according to government estimates.The Chinese government has hoped that economic development in the resource-rich region would ease tensions. But many Uighurs and Kazakhs complain they have been left out of growth and face discrimination in hiring, along with stifling restrictions on their practice of Islam, their cultures and their languages.Chinese officials quoted in state media have praised the contributions of minority police officers. But those who join the security forces are often viewed with suspicion by both the authorities and their own communities.“Some of them are typical degenerate traitors to their ethnic group,” said Dilxat Raxit, a Uighur activist in Germany. “Some of them have consciences but wear the uniform for the sake of their own and their families’ safety.”Tahir Imin, a Uighur activist in Washington, said four relatives of his worked as police officers in Xinjiang only because there were few good jobs for Uighurs.“There are big problems between Uighur police and ordinary people,” he said. “People hate them and consider them as traitors, call them dogs of Chinese.”Mr. Bilash, the Kazakh activist, said ethnic Kazakhs who fled Xinjiang do not hold Mr. Baimurat’s work for the police against him.“Nobody blames him because he had no choice,” Mr. Bilash said.Within the police force, Mr. Baimurat said, officers like him were scrutinized for signs of political disloyalty.He said he was required to attend regular political indoctrination meetings and memorize quotes by China’s president, Xi Jinping. Minority officers were prohibited from speaking anything but Chinese with each other, he added, and were punished if a word of Kazakh or Uighur slipped out.The worst experience, he said, was bringing people to the internment camp.The government presents the camps as part of a vocational training campaign that steers Muslims away from religious extremism and has halted violence. Former inmates, however, say the authorities hold people without charge and force them to renounce their religious beliefs.Evidence has also emerged that the camps are operating a system of forced labor.“I came to regret ever coming back to China,” he said. “That choice led me into doing such awful things.”Mr. Baimurat had another reason to lament his return: The authorities discovered he had lived in Kazakhstan and obtained citizenship there. In recent years, the police have come to regard foreign ties as grounds for suspicion — and for sending someone to an internment camp.Mr. Baimurat decided he had to get out. But he and his family had handed in their Kazakh passports when they returned to China in 2013. They were trapped.“I was so scared that my legs were trembling,” he recalled.Eventually, a contact in another part of China, who could call Kazakhstan without drawing attention, was able to get Kazakh officials to provide temporary travel documents, he said.At the border, the police questioned his family, including his young children, for hours before letting them through. Back on Kazakh soil, Mr. Baimurat knelt down in thanks.“We were so happy,” he said. “It was like we had come out of hell.”Advertisement
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
I t s   a n o t h e r   s i g n   o f   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p s   w e a k n e s s
B y   D a v i d   L e o n h a r d t
O p i n i o n   C o l u m n i s t
T h i s   a r t i c l e   i s   p a r t   o f   D a v i d   L e o n h a r d t s   n e w s l e t t e r   Y o u   c a n   s i g n   u p   h e r e   t o   r e c e i v e   i t   e a c h   w e e k d a y
P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p s   e m e r g e n c y   d e c l a r a t i o n   f o r   a   b o r d e r   w a l l   i s   b a s e d   o n   a n   o b v i o u s   f a l s e h o o d   T h e r e   i s   n o   e m e r g e n c y   a t   t h e   U S M e x i c o   b o r d e r   A n d   b e c a u s e   h e   w a s   g o a d e d   i n t o   t h e   d e c l a r a t i o n   b y   S e a n   H a n n i t y   t h e   e p i s o d e   m a k e s   a   m o c k e r y   o f   t h e   f e d e r a l   g o v e r n m e n t
B u t   i n   t h e   r e l a t i v e   s c h e m e   o f   T r u m p s   m i s b e h a v i o r   t h e   e m e r g e n c y   d e c l a r a t i o n   d o e s n t   r a n k   v e r y   h i g h   I t s   n o t   c o r r u p t i o n   o r   o b s t r u c t i o n   o f   j u s t i c e   I t s   n o t   a n   a t t e m p t   t o   u n d e r m i n e   A m e r i c a s   a l l i a n c e   w i t h   W e s t e r n   E u r o p e   A n d   i t   d o e s n t   e v e n   m a t t e r   m u c h   f o r   i m m i g r a t i o n   p o l i c y   I f   y o u r e   t r y i n g   t o   c a l i b r a t e   y o u r   T r u m p r e l a t e d   o u t r a g e   y o u   c a n   t a k e   a   d e e p   b r e a t h   t h i s   m o r n i n g
A   p r e s i d e n t i a l   d e c l a r a t i o n   o f   e m e r g e n c y   i n   o r d e r   t o   c o n s t r u c t   a   w a l l   w o u l d   b e   s t u p i d   L a w f a r e s   Q u i n t a   J u r e c i c   w r o t e   I t   w o u l d   b e   w a s t e f u l   I t   w o u l d   t e s t   t h e   l i m i t s   o f   t h e   p r e s i d e n t s   a u t h o r i t y   u n d e r   t h e   l a w   i n   q u e s t i o n   B u t   i t   w o u l d   n o t   i n   i t s e l f   b e   a   s t e p   t o w a r d   a u t h o r i t a r i a n i s m   H e r e s   t h e   l o n g e r   v e r s i o n   o f   h e r   c a s e
L i s t e n   t o   T h e   A r g u m e n t   p o d c a s t   e v e r y   T h u r s d a y   m o r n i n g   w i t h   R o s s   D o u t h a t   M i c h e l l e   G o l d b e r g   a n d   D a v i d   L e o n h a r d t
T h i s   w i l l   b e   c h a l l e n g e d   i n   c o u r t s   i m m e d i a t e l y   a n d   i t   w i l l   b e   p r e t t y   e a s y   t o   t h r o w   t h i s   t h i n g   o u t   N e a l   K a t y a l   a   f o r m e r   a c t i n g   s o l i c i t o r   g e n e r a l   p r e d i c t e d   o n   L a w r e n c e   O D o n n e l l s   M S N B C   s h o w   l a s t   n i g h t
T r u m p s   f a k e   e m e r g e n c y   i s   a   s i g n   o f   w e a k n e s s   n o t   s t r e n g t h   t w e e t e d   T h e   N e w   Y o r k e r s   J o h n   C a s s i d y   H e   r a n   o n   t h e   w a l l   h e   h a d   t w o   y e a r s   o f   R e p u b l i c a n   c o n t r o l   o f   C o n g r e s s   a n d   h e   s t i l l   c o u l d n t   g e t   i t   f i n a n c e d   W e a k   p r e s i d e n t
A n d   P h i l i p   K l e i n   o f   T h e   W a s h i n g t o n   E x a m i n e r   m a d e   t h e   c o n s e r v a t i v e   c a s e   a g a i n s t   t h e   d e c l a r a t i o n   T h e   o n l y   h o p e   f o r   l i m i t e d   g o v e r n m e n t   c o n s e r v a t i v e s   i s   t h a t   a n y   e m e r g e n c y   d e c l a r a t i o n   g e t s   q u i c k l y   e n j o i n e d   a n d   e v e n t u a l l y   n i x e d   i n   f e d e r a l   c o u r t   A t   l e a s t   t h e n   t h e   s i l v e r   l i n i n g   w o u l d   b e   t h a t   a   l e g a l   p r e c e d e n t   w o u l d   b e   s e t   t h a t   t h e   p r e s i d e n t   c a n n o t   a t t e m p t   s u c h   a n   e n d   a r o u n d   C o n g r e s s
T h e   C h i n a   r i v a l r y
I v e   a l w a y s   t h o u g h t   A m e r i c a n s   w o u l d   c o m e   t o g e t h e r   w h e n   w e   r e a l i z e d   t h a t   w e   f a c e d   a   d a n g e r o u s   f o r e i g n   f o e   m y   c o l l e a g u e   D a v i d   B r o o k s   w r i t e s   A n d   l o   a n d   b e h o l d   n o w   w e   h a v e   o n e   C h i n a   I t s   b e c o m e   i n c r e a s i n g l y   c l e a r   t h a t   C h i n a   i s   a   g r a v e   e c o n o m i c   t e c h n o l o g i c a l   a n d   i n t e l l e c t u a l   t h r e a t   t o   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   a n d   t h e   w o r l d   o r d e r
I   a g r e e   t h a t   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   h a s   b e e n   t o o   c o m p l a c e n t   a b o u t   t h e   g e o p o l i t i c a l   c h a l l e n g e   t h a t   C h i n a   p o s e s
I f   y o u   a r e   n o t   a   s u b s c r i b e r   t o   t h i s   n e w s l e t t e r   y o u   c a n   s u b s c r i b e   h e r e   Y o u   c a n   a l s o   j o i n   m e   o n   T w i t t e r   D L e o n h a r d t   a n d   F a c e b o o k
F o l l o w   T h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s   O p i n i o n   s e c t i o n   o n   F a c e b o o k   T w i t t e r   N Y T o p i n i o n   a n d   I n s t a g r a m
D a v i d   L e o n h a r d t   i s   a   f o r m e r   W a s h i n g t o n   b u r e a u   c h i e f   f o r   t h e   T i m e s   a n d   w a s   t h e   f o u n d i n g   e d i t o r   o f   T h e   U p s h o t   a n d   h e a d   o f   T h e   2 0 2 0   P r o j e c t   o n   t h e   f u t u r e   o f   t h e   T i m e s   n e w s r o o m   H e   w o n   t h e   2 0 1 1   P u l i t z e r   P r i z e   f o r   c o m m e n t a r y   f o r   c o l u m n s   o n   t h e   f i n a n c i a l   c r i s i s     D L e o n h a r d t     F a c e b o o k  
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
W h y   A m e r i c a n   c o n s e r v a t i s m   a f t e r   T r u m p   m a y   l e a r n   t o   l i k e   t h e   s t a t e
B y   R o s s   D o u t h a t
O p i n i o n   C o l u m n i s t
S i n c e   c o n s e r v a t i s m   b e c a m e   a   m o v e m e n t   i n   t h e   1 9 5 0 s   t h e   A m e r i c a n   r i g h t   h a s   u n d e r s t o o d   i t s e l f   t o   b e   d e f e n d i n g   n o t   j u s t   t h e   w r i t t e n   A m e r i c a n   C o n s t i t u t i o n   b u t   a n   u n w r i t t e n   o n e   a s   w e l l     a   k i n d   o f   c u l t u r a l   o r   s o c i a l   c o n s t i t u t i o n   d e e p l y   r o o t e d   i n   o u r   n a t i o n a l   h i s t o r y   t h a t   t h e   c h e c k s   a n d   b a l a n c e s   o f   o u r   o f f i c i a l   p o l i t i c a l   s y s t e m   h e l p   s u s t a i n
U n d e r   t h i s   c o n s t i t u t i o n   A m e r i c a   h a s   t h r e e   b r a n c h e s   o f   g o v e r n m e n t   b u t   a   g r e a t   d i v e r s i t y   o f   p o w e r   c e n t e r s     r e l i g i o u s   a n d   c o r p o r a t e   f a m i l i a l   a n d   p h i l a n t h r o p i c   U n d e r   t h i s   c o n s t i t u t i o n   t h e   m o s t   i m p o r t a n t   i n s t i t u t i o n s   i n   o u r   n a t i o n a l   l i f e   a r e n t   p o l i t i c a l   o n e s   t h e y r e   t h e   i n s t i t u t i o n s   o f   c i v i l   s o c i e t y   w h i c h   h a v e   f l o u r i s h e d     o r   s o   t h e   c o n s e r v a t i v e   a r g u m e n t   g o e s     p r e c i s e l y   b e c a u s e   g o v e r n m e n t   h a s   b e e n   k e p t   w i t h i n   l i m i t s   a n d   t h e   s t a t e   h a s n t   c o o p t e d   o r   c r u s h e d   a l l   i t s   r i v a l s   f o r   i n f l u e n c e   a n d   p o w e r
T h u s   w h e n   c o n s e r v a t i v e s   p r e a c h   a b o u t   t h e   v i r t u e s   o f   l i m i t e d   g o v e r n m e n t   i t   i s n t   j u s t   H e r b e r t   H o o v e r s   r u g g e d   i n d i v i d u a l   t h a t   t h e y   i m a g i n e   t h e m s e l v e s   d e f e n d i n g   T h e y   e n v i s i o n   a   l a r g e r   c o m m u n i t a r i a n   p a n o p l y     c i v i c   a s s o c i a t i o n s   r e l i g i o u s   d e n o m i n a t i o n s   c h a r i t i e s   a n d   u n i v e r s i t i e s   a n d   p r i v a t e   s c h o o l s     w h i c h   n e e d s   p r o t e c t i o n   a g a i n s t   t h e   j e a l o u s y   o f   a   c e n t r a l i z i n g   s t a t e   A n d   t h e y   t e n d   t o   a s s u m e   t h a t   k e e p i n g   t h e   A m e r i c a n   c o r p o r a t i o n   e m b e d d e d   i n   t h i s   c o m m u n i t a r i a n   s y s t e m   i s   a   b e t t e r   w a y   t o   b a l a n c e   p r o d u c t i v i t y   a n d   i n n o v a t i o n   a n d   p u b l i c s p i r i t e d n e s s   t h a n   j u s t   t r y i n g   t o   r e g u l a t e   a n d   m i c r o m a n a g e   b u s i n e s s e s   i n t o   g o o d   b e h a v i o r
I f   y o u   w a n t e d   t o   s u m m a r i z e   t h e   i n t e l l e c t u a l   u n c e r t a i n t i e s   o f   c o n s e r v a t i v e s   i n   t h e   T r u m p   e r a   y o u   c o u l d   s a y   t h a t   t h e   r i g h t   i s   t r y i n g   t o   f i g u r e   o u t   w h e t h e r   t h e   u n w r i t t e n   A m e r i c a n   c o n s t i t u t i o n   i t   i m a g i n e s   i t s e l f   d e f e n d i n g   s t i l l   e x i s t s   A n d   i f   i t   d o e s n t   o r   i f   i t s   f a i l i n g   w h e t h e r   t h a t   m e a n s   t h a t   l i m i t e d   g o v e r n m e n t   a s   a   s l o g a n   a n d   s t r a t e g y   i s   i n c r e a s i n g l y   i r r e l e v a n t   w h e n   i t   c o m e s   t o   s h a p i n g   t h e   s o c i e t y   t h a t   c o n s e r v a t i v e s   w o u l d   l i k e   A m e r i c a   t o   b e
T h e   l a t t e r   w a s   t h e   a r g u m e n t   t h a t   D o n a l d   T r u m p   i m p l i c i t l y   p r e s s e d   a g a i n s t   h i s   m o r e   o p t i m i s t i c   o p p o n e n t s   i n   t h e   2 0 1 6   p r i m a r i e s   T h e y   w e r e   d e f e n d e r s   o f   t h e   A m e r i c a n   d r e a m   a s   c o n s e r v a t i v e s   h a v e   l o n g   d e f i n e d   i t   w h i l e   t h e   d a r k   c o n s p i r a t o r i a l   t o n e s   o f   t h e i r   b u s i n e s s m a n   r i v a l   r a i s e d   a   s e t   o f   u n c o m f o r t a b l e   q u e s t i o n s   I s   A m e r i c a   s t i l l   a   n a t i o n   o f   t h r i v i n g   l o c a l   c o m m u n i t i e s   a n d   e n e r g e t i c   c i v i c   l i f e   I s   A m e r i c a   s t i l l   a   d e e p l y   r e l i g i o u s   c o u n t r y   w i t h   s t r o n g   c h u r c h e s   a n d   g r o w i n g   d e n o m i n a t i o n s   A r e   A m e r i c a n   b u s i n e s s m e n   b a s i c a l l y   p u b l i c   s p i r i t e d   e a g e r   t o   c o m p e t e   o n   e q u a l   t e r m s   o n c e   g o v e r n m e n t   r e m o v e s   i t s   h e a v y   h a n d   a n d   n a t u r a l   a l l i e s   f o r   a   p o l i t i c a l   m o v e m e n t   w e d d e d   t o   p a t r i o t i s m   a n d   r e l i g i o n
F o r   y e a r s   n o w   c o n s e r v a t i v e   c r i t i c s   a n d   s o c i o l o g i s t s   a n d   i n t e l l e c t u a l s   h a v e   b e e n   a c k n o w l e d g i n g   t h a t   t h e   a n s w e r s   m i g h t   b e   n o     t h a t   t h e   c o u n t r y s   o n c e r i c h   a s s o c i a t i o n a l   a n d   c i v i c   a n d   r e l i g i o u s   l i f e   i s   d e c l i n i n g   a n d   d i s s o l v i n g   t h a t   c o r p o r a t e   A m e r i c a   e m b r a c e s   c o n s e r v a t i v e   s l o g a n s   t o   k e e p   t a x e s   l o w   a n d   u n i o n s   w e a k   b u t   o t h e r w i s e   s e e m s   p o s t p a t r i o t i c   a n d   p e r f o r m a t i v e l y   w o k e   t h a t   t h e   s i l e n t   m a j o r i t y   o f   h a r d w o r k i n g   p i o u s   c u l t u r a l l y   c o n s e r v a t i v e   b l u e c o l l a r   f a m i l i e s   i s   n o w   e s s e n t i a l l y   d e f u n c t
M a n y   o f   t h e   b e s t   c o n s e r v a t i v e   b o o k s   o f   t h e   l a s t   d e c a d e   f r o m   C o m i n g   A p a r t   b y   C h a r l e s   M u r r a y   t o   T h e   F r a c t u r e d   R e p u b l i c   b y   Y u v a l   L e v i n   d e s c r i b e   a n   e m e r g i n g   A m e r i c a   t h a t   d o e s n t   m u c h   r e s e m b l e   t h e   T o c q u e v i l l i a n   f a m i l y c h u r c h c o m m u n i t y   l a n d s c a p e   f a m i l i a r   f r o m   p a s t   c o n s e r v a t i v e   d e s c r i p t i o n s   o f   A m e r i c a n   e x c e p t i o n a l i s m   T h e   l a t e s t   e x a m p l e   i s   A l i e n a t e d   A m e r i c a   W h y   S o m e   P l a c e s   T h r i v e   W h i l e   O t h e r s   C o l l a p s e   b y   T i m   C a r n e y   a   m i x   o f   s o c i o l o g y   a n d   s h o e l e a t h e r   r e p o r t i n g   t h a t   c o n v i n c i n g l y   s i t u a t e s   t h e   r i s e   o f   T r u m p   i n   t h e   c o n t e x t   o f   M i d d l e   A m e r i c a s   c o m m u n i t a r i a n   c o l l a p s e
B u t   w h i l e   a c c o u n t s   l i k e   C a r n e y s   a c k n o w l e d g e   t h e   r o l e   o f   e c o n o m i c   f o r c e s     g l o b a l i z a t i o n   t r a d e   d e i n d u s t r i a l i z a t i o n     i n   t h e   d i s s o l u t i o n   o f   f a m i l y   a n d   c o m m u n i t y   t h e y   a l s o   t e n d   t o   i n s i s t   c o n t r a   l i b e r a l s   a n d   o u r   n e w   s o c i a l i s t   v a n g u a r d   a n d   a l s o   c o n t r a   T r u m p   t h a t   t h i s   c u l t u r a l   c o l l a p s e   i s n t   p r i m a r i l y   d r i v e n   b y   e c o n o m i c   p o l i c y   d e c i s i o n s   a n d   c a n t   b e   r e v e r s e d   b y   p u b l i c   p o l i c i e s   o r   p r o g r a m s   I n s t e a d   t h e y   t e n d   t o   s u g g e s t   t h a t   s t a t e   i n t e r v e n t i o n s   o f t e n   j u s t   r e p l a c e   c o m m u n i t y   i n s t e a d   o f   s t r e n g t h e n i n g   i t   a n d   c a s t   a n y   c o m m u n i t a r i a n   r e v i v a l   a s   a   n e c e s s a r i l y   l o c a l   p r o j e c t   i n   w h i c h   g o v e r n m e n t   c a n   p l a y   a t   b e s t   a   s u p p o r t i n g   d o n t m a k e m a t t e r s w o r s e   k i n d   o f   r o l e
T h e s e   k i n d   o f   a r g u m e n t s   a r e   s t i l l   i n   c o n t i n u i t y   t h e n   w i t h   t h e   b a s i c   c o n s e r v a t i v e   p o s t u r e   o f   t h e   l a s t   f e w   g e n e r a t i o n s   B u t   t h e r e   a r e   a l s o   i n c r e a s i n g l y   p a r t i s a n s   o f   r u p t u r e   o n   t h e   r i g h t   a   l o o s e   g r o u p   o f   s t a t e p o w e r   c o n s e r v a t i v e s   w h o   h i n t   t h a t   i f   t h e   T o c q u e v i l l i a n   d r e a m   i s   d y i n g   t h e n   t h e   c a u s e   o f   l i m i t e d   g o v e r n m e n t   i s   i n c r e a s i n g l y   i r r e l e v a n t     w h i c h   i n   t u r n   w o u l d   r e q u i r e   c o n s e r v a t i v e s   t o   b e c o m e   m o r e   c o m f o r t a b l e   u s i n g   t h e   p o w e r   o f   t h e   s t a t e   a n d   m o r e   e n g a g e d   i n   c e n t r a l i z e d   p o l i c y m a k i n g   t h a t   h a s   s p e c i f i c   s o c i a l   a n d   c u l t u r a l   e n d s   i n   m i n d
T h i s   a r g u m e n t   i s   v i s i b l e   i n   t h e   c o n t r o v e r s y   s u r r o u n d i n g   T u c k e r   C a r l s o n s   m o n o l o g u e   a   m o n t h   a g o   w h i c h   s t i r r e d   u p   l i b e r t a r i a n   b a c k l a s h   b y   c a l l i n g   f o r   R e p u b l i c a n s   t o   u s e   g o v e r n m e n t   p o l i c y   t o   m a k e   A m e r i c a n   l i f e   f r i e n d l i e r   t o   f a m i l i e s   a n d   p a r t i c u l a r l y   t o   s i n g l e e a r n e r   h o u s e h o l d s   I t   a l s o   i n f o r m s   t h e   d i f f e r e n c e   b e t w e e n   C a r n e y s   b o o k   a n d   t h e   o t h e r   s m a r t   r i g h t o f c e n t e r   v o l u m e   o f   t h e   m o m e n t   O r e n   C a s s s   T h e   O n c e   a n d   F u t u r e   W o r k e r   T h e   t w o   a u t h o r s   s h a r e   a   c e r t a i n   c o m m o n   g r o u n d   b u t   i n   t h e   e n d   C a r n e y   c o n c l u d e s   t h a t   o u r   c u r r e n t   e c o n o m i c   a n d   s o c i a l   i l l s     c a n n o t   b e   s o l v e d   o r   e v e n   s i g n i f i c a n t l y   a m e l i o r a t e d   b y   a n y   p r e s i d e n t   o r   b y   t h e   c e n t r a l   g o v e r n m e n t   a t   a l l   w h i l e   C a s s s   w h o l e   t h e s i s   i s   t h a t   w i s e r   p o l i c y m a k i n g   c o u l d   m a k e   a   b i g   d i f f e r e n c e   t o   t h e   u n h a p p y   h e a r t l a n d e r s   C a r n e y   p r o f i l e s
B u t   t h e   f u l l e s t   c a s e   f o r   r u p t u r e   f o r   d e c l a r i n g   t h a t   t h e   e r a   o f   l i m i t e d   g o v e r n m e n t   i s   o v e r   i s   o f f e r e d   i n   t w o   r e c e n t   e s s a y s   i n   c o n s e r v a t i v e   i n t e l l e c t u a l   j o u r n a l s     D a n   M c C a r t h y s   A   N e w   C o n s e r v a t i v e   A g e n d a   i n   F i r s t   T h i n g s   a n d   G l a d d e n   P a p p i n s   T o w a r d   a   P a r t y   o f   t h e   S t a t e   i n   A m e r i c a n   A f f a i r s   B o t h   e n v i s i o n   a   c o n s e r v a t i s m   t h a t   i s   o r i e n t e d   l e s s   t o w a r d   t h e   s t a t e a s e n e m y   o r   t h e   s t a t e a s d a n g e r   a n d   m u c h   m o r e   t o w a r d   t h e   s t a t e a s s h a p e r   a n d   t h e   s t a t e a s h a r m o n i z e r   F o r   i n s t a n c e   h e r e   i s   M c C a r t h y s   a c c o u n t   o f   h o w   t h e   e c o n o m i c   n a t i o n a l i s m   o f   D o n a l d   T r u m p   c a n   b e   t r a n s m u t e d   i n t o   s o m e t h i n g   l e s s   i n c h o a t e   a n d   m o r e   e f f e c t i v e
E c o n o m i c   n a t i o n a l i s m   i s   n o t   j u s t   a b o u t   t a r i f f s   I t   i s   l e s s   a b o u t   e c o n o m i c   t h a n   i t   i s   a b o u t   n a t i o n a l i s m     t h a t   i s   i t   t a k e s   a c c o u n t   o f   t h e   d i f f e r e n t   n e e d s   o f   d i f f e r e n t   w a l k s   o f   l i f e   a n d   r e g i o n s   o f   t h e   c o u n t r y   s e r v i n g   t h e   w h o l e   b y   s e r v i n g   i t s   p a r t s   a n d   d r a w i n g   t h e m   t o g e t h e r   I n   t h e   p a s t   t h e   c h a l l e n g e   w a s   t o   h a r m o n i z e   f a r m e r s   u r b a n   c a p i t a l   a n d   l a b o r   T h e   c h a l l e n g e   n o w   i s   t o   b a l a n c e   t h o s e   g r o u p s   w i t h   t h e   p o s t i n d u s t r i a l   c l a s s e s   a s   w e l l   a n d   t o   s t r e n g t h e n   t h e   p r o d u c t i v e   e c o n o m y   a g a i n s t   t h e   l a r g e l y   f i c t i o n a l   e c o n o m y   o f   a d m i n i s t r a t o r s   a n d   c l e r k s   A l l   o f   t h i s   i s   f o r   t h e   s a k e   n o t   j u s t   o f   p r o s p e r i t y   i n   r a w   d o l l a r   t e r m s   b u t   o f   a   n a t i o n a l   e c o n o m y   t h a t   p r o v i d e s   t h e   b a s i s   f o r   a   h e a l t h y   c u l t u r e   i n   w h i c h   c i t i z e n s   a n d   t h e i r   f a m i l i e s   c a n   f l o u r i s h
P a p p i n   m a k e s   a   s i m i l a r   a r g u m e n t   a b o u t   h o w   b o t h   p o l i t i c a l   c o a l i t i o n s   b u t   e s p e c i a l l y   t h e   r i g h t   s h o u l d   a d a p t   t o   t h e   c u r r e n t   c h a l l e n g e   f r o m   i l l i b e r a l   o r   p o s t l i b e r a l   f o r c e s   b o t h   p o p u l i s t   a n d   s o c i a l i s t
R a t h e r   t h a n   a s k i n g   t h e   q u e s t i o n   W h a t   s h o u l d   c o n s e r v a t i v e s p r o g r e s s i v e s   d o   c o n s i d e r a b l e   a d v a n c e s   c a n   b e   m a d e   t h r o u g h   c e r t a i n   p u r e l y   p r a c t i c a l   c o n s i d e r a t i o n s   H o w   c a n   t h e   i n t e g r i t y   o f   t h e   n a t i o n a l   p o l i t i c a l   c o m m u n i t y   b e   a s s u r e d   H o w   c a n   c o m m e r c i a l   a c t i v i t y   a n d   t e c h n o l o g i c a l   d e v e l o p m e n t   c o n t i n u e   t o   b e   t u r n e d   t o w a r d   t h e   c o m m o n   g o o d   a n d   t o w a r d   o u r   o w n   s t r a t e g i c   a d v a n t a g e   W h a t   c a n   w e   d o   w i t h   t h e   r e i n s   o f   p o w e r   t h a t   i s   t h e   s t a t e   t o   e n s u r e   t h e   c o m m o n   g o o d   o f   o u r   c i t i z e n s  
T h e   l i k e l y   a n s w e r s   t o   t h e s e   p r a c t i c a l   q u e s t i o n s   P a p p i n   c o n t e n d s   r e q u i r e   c o n s e r v a t i v e s   t o   m a k e   p r a c t i c a l   u s e   o f   t h e   a d m i n i s t r a t i v e   s t a t e   f o r   r i g h t w i n g   e n d s   r a t h e r   t h a n   c o n s t a n t l y   r e t u r n i n g   t o   p l a i n t i v e   n o s t a l g i c   a n d   c o u n t e r p r o d u c t i v e   c a l l s   f o r   i t s   a b o l i t i o n
A   h o s t i l e   r e a d e r   o f   t h e s e   e s s a y s   l i b e r t a r i a n   o r   l i b e r a l   m i g h t   r e s p o n d   t h a t   a   v i s i o n   i n   w h i c h   r i g h t w i n g   g o v e r n m e n t s   s e e k   t o   r e s h a p e   c u l t u r e   a n d   m e d i a t e   b e t w e e n   c l a s s e s   r e s e m b l e s   n o t h i n g   s o   m u c h   a s   e a r l y 2 0 t h   c e n t u r y   f a s c i s m   A   m o r e   s y m p a t h e t i c   r e a d e r   w o u l d   s a y   n o   t h e r e   i s   p l e n t y   o f   s p a c e   f o r   m o r e   a   s t a t e f r i e n d l y   c o n s e r v a t i v e   p o l i t i c s   i n   b e t w e e n   m o v e m e n t   c o n s e r v a t i s m   a n d   M u s s o l i n i   a n d   w h a t   M c C a r t h y   a n d   P a p p i n   a r e   e n v i s i o n i n g   m i g h t   b e   b e t t e r   d e s c r i b e d   a s   a   b l e n d   o f   t h e   A m e r i c a n   H a m i l t o n i a n   t r a d i t i o n   w i t h   a   2 1 s t c e n t u r y   u p d a t e   o f   F r e n c h   G a u l l i s m
A n d   t h e   m o s t   s u b t l e   r e a d e r   m i g h t   s a y   t h a t   t h e y r e   t r y i n g   t o   p r o v i d e   t h e   t h e o r y   f o r   a   m o v e   t h a t   t h e   R e p u b l i c a n   P a r t y   o n c e   i n   p o w e r   t e n d s   t o   m a k e   a n y w a y     b o t h   o f   t h e   l a s t   t w o   G O P   p r e s i d e n t s   h a v e   b e e n   i n   s o m e   s e n s e   b i g   g o v e r n m e n t   c o n s e r v a t i v e s     b u t   s o   f a r   w i t h o u t   t h e   s t r a t e g y   s e r i o u s n e s s   a n d   s e l f c o n s c i o u s n e s s   r e q u i r e d   t o   m a k e   t h e   p r o j e c t   a   s u c c e s s
I   h a v e   e n o u g h   o f   m y   o w n   s k e p t i c i s m   a b o u t   t h e   e f f i c a c y   o f   s t a t e   p o w e r   t o   b e   u n c e r t a i n   i f   t h e   p r o j e c t   c a n   s u c c e e d   B u t   p o s t T r u m p   c o n s e r v a t i v e s   a r e   l i k e l y   t o   b e   d r a w n   t o   s t a t e p o w e r   c o n s e r v a t i s m   n o t   j u s t   b y   t h e o r e t i c a l   a m b i t i o n   b u t   b y   a   s e n s e   o f   p o l i t i c a l   n e c e s s i t y
T h e   e a r l i e r   c o n s e r v a t i v e   s e l f u n d e r s t a n d i n g   i n   w h i c h   t h e   r i g h t   w a s   d e f e n d i n g   n o n g o v e r n m e n t a l   i n s t i t u t i o n s   a g a i n s t   t h e   p o w e r   o f   t h e   s t a t e   t a c i t l y   d e p e n d e d   o n   t h e   a s s u m p t i o n   t h a t   m a n y   i f   n o t   m o s t   n o n g o v e r n m e n t a l   i n s t i t u t i o n s   w o u l d   b e   f r i e n d l y   t o   c o n s e r v a t i v e   v a l u e s   B u t   a s   c i v i l   s o c i e t y   h a s   d e c a y e d   o v e r   r e c e n t   d e c a d e s   i t s   r e m a i n i n g   p o w e r   c e n t e r s   h a v e   a l s o   b e c o m e   i n c r e a s i n g l y   l e f t w i n g
A l r e a d y l i b e r a l   i n s t i t u t i o n s     u n i v e r s i t i e s   H o l l y w o o d   t h e   b i g   f o u n d a t i o n s   a n d   t h e   m a s s   m e d i a     a r e   n o w   m o r e   u n i f o r m l y   a l l i e d   w i t h   t h e   l e f t   t h a n   e v e n   t h e   v e r y   r e c e n t   p a s t   C o r p o r a t e   A m e r i c a   h a p p i l y   d o n a t e s   t o   R e p u b l i c a n s   b e c a u s e   i t   f e a r s   a   B e r n i e   S a n d e r s   p r e s i d e n c y   b u t   o n   c u l t u r a l   i s s u e s   b i g   b u s i n e s s   c o u r t s   i t s   y o u n g e r   c u s t o m e r s   w i t h   p r o g r e s s i v e   l o b b y i n g   a n d   p r o p a g a n d a   I n   r e l i g i o n   C a t h o l i c i s m   u n d e r   P o p e   F r a n c i s   a s p i r e s   s c a n d a l s   p e r m i t t i n g   t o   e a s e   i t s   w a y   l e f t w a r d   a s   w e l l   l e a v i n g   e v a n g e l i c a l   C h r i s t i a n i t y   a s   a n   i s o l a t e d   b a s t i o n   w i t h   l i t t l e   c u l t u r e s h a p i n g   p o w e r
Y e t   c o n s e r v a t i v e s   c a n   s t i l l   w i n   t h e   W h i t e   H o u s e   a n d   t h e   C o n g r e s s   w h i c h   m e a n s   t h a t   t h e   o n e   p o w e r   c e n t e r   t h e y   c a n   h o p e   t o   c o n t r o l   i s   t h e   o n e   t h e y   a r e   n o t i o n a l l y   o r g a n i z e d   t o   l i m i t     t h e   a d m i n i s t r a t i v e   s t a t e  
I f   w e   a s s u m e   t h a t   p e o p l e   t e n d   t o   s e e k   p o w e r   a n d   d e v i s e   j u s t i f i c a t i o n s   f o r   s e e k i n g   p o w e r   w h e r e   i t   c a n   b e   p l a u s i b l y   e x e r c i s e d   a n d   w o n   t h e n   t h e   s t a t e p o w e r   c o n s e r v a t i v e s   m a y   n o t   n e e d   t h e   s t r o n g e s t   i n t e l l e c t u a l   a r g u m e n t s   t o   c h a n g e   t h e   w a y   t h e   r i g h t   t h i n k s   a b o u t   t h e   s t a t e   I n s t e a d   l i m i t e d   g o v e r n m e n t   c o n s e r v a t i s m   m a y   g i v e   w a y   t o   a n   a t t e m p t   t o   i m p r o v e   o n   T r u m p i s m   w i t h   c l e a r e r   b l u e p r i n t s   a n d   s m a r t e r   c a d r e s   f o r   t h e   s a m e   r e a s o n   t h a t   c h a n g e s   o f t e n   h a p p e n   i n   p o l i t i c a l   i d e o l o g y     b e c a u s e   t h e   p e o p l e   w h o s e   t h i n k i n g   i s   c h a n g i n g   f e e l   t h a t   t h e y   d o n t   h a v e   a n y   o t h e r   c h o i c e
T h e   T i m e s   i s   c o m m i t t e d   t o   p u b l i s h i n g   a   d i v e r s i t y   o f   l e t t e r s   t o   t h e   e d i t o r   W e d   l i k e   t o   h e a r   w h a t   y o u   t h i n k   a b o u t   t h i s   o r   a n y   o f   o u r   a r t i c l e s   H e r e   a r e   s o m e   t i p s   A n d   h e r e s   o u r   e m a i l   l e t t e r s n y t i m e s c o m
F o l l o w   T h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s   O p i n i o n   s e c t i o n   o n   F a c e b o o k   T w i t t e r   N Y T O p i n i o n   a n d   I n s t a g r a m   j o i n   t h e   F a c e b o o k   p o l i t i c a l   d i s c u s s i o n   g r o u p   V o t i n g   W h i l e   F e m a l e
R o s s   D o u t h a t   h a s   b e e n   a n   O p i n i o n   c o l u m n i s t   f o r   T h e   T i m e s   s i n c e   2 0 0 9   H e   i s   t h e   a u t h o r   o f   s e v e r a l   b o o k s   m o s t   r e c e n t l y   T o   C h a n g e   t h e   C h u r c h   P o p e   F r a n c i s   a n d   t h e   F u t u r e   o f   C a t h o l i c i s m  
 Y o u   c a n   f o l l o w   h i m   o n   T w i t t e r     D o u t h a t N Y T  
Y o u   c a n   f o l l o w   h i m   o n   T w i t t e r     D o u t h a t N Y T  
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
E u r o t u n n e l   s u e d   t h e   D e p a r t m e n t   f o r   T r a n s p o r t   o v e r   t h e   h a n d l i n g   o f   c o n t r a c t s   t o   p r o v i d e   e x t r a   f r e i g h t   c a p a c i t y
B y   A m i e   T s a n g
L O N D O N     A d d   t h i s   t o   t h e   l i s t   o f   h e a d a c h e s   f a c e d   b y   B r i t a i n s   g o v e r n m e n t   a s   i t   f r a n t i c a l l y   t r i e s   t o   p r e p a r e   f o r   B r e x i t   a   3 3   m i l l i o n   p o u n d   a b o u t   4 4   m i l l i o n   p a y m e n t   t o   s e t t l e   a   l a w s u i t   b r o u g h t   b y   E u r o t u n n e l   t h e   c o m p a n y   t h a t   o p e r a t e s   t h e   r a i l   l i n k   b e t w e e n   F r a n c e   a n d   B r i t a i n  
E u r o t u n n e l   h a d   s u e d   B r i t a i n s   D e p a r t m e n t   f o r   T r a n s p o r t   o v e r   t h e   h a n d l i n g   o f   c o n t r a c t s   t o   p r o v i d e   e x t r a   t r a n s p o r t a t i o n   c a p a c i t y   i n   t h e   e v e n t   t h e   c o u n t r y   l e a v e s   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n   w i t h o u t   a   d e a l   i n   p l a c e  
T h e   c o m p a n y   a c c u s e d   t h e   B r i t i s h   g o v e r n m e n t   o f   l i m i t i n g   c o m p e t i t i o n   b y   n o t   h a v i n g   o p e n   b i d d i n g   f o r   t h e   c o n t r a c t s   w o r t h   m i l l i o n s   o f   d o l l a r s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   t h e   c o u r t   f i l i n g s  
I n   D e c e m b e r   B r i t a i n s   g o v e r n m e n t   s i g n e d   c o n t r a c t s   w i t h   D F D S   a   D a n i s h   s h i p p i n g   c o m p a n y   a n d   B r i t t a n y   F e r r i e s   a   F r e n c h   c o m p a n y   t o   s u p p l y   e x t r a   f r e i g h t   c a p a c i t y   t o   b r i n g   e s s e n t i a l   g o o d s   a n d   m e d i c i n e s   i n t o   t h e   c o u n t r y   i n   t h e   e v e n t   o f   a   n o d e a l   B r e x i t  
T h e   g o v e r n m e n t   a l s o   s i g n e d   a   c o n t r a c t   w i t h   S e a b o r n e   F r e i g h t   a   f e r r y   c o m p a n y   t h a t   w a s   l a t e r   f o u n d   b y   t h e   B B C   n o t   t o   h a v e   r u n   a   f e r r y   s e r v i c e   b e f o r e   T h e   d e a l   c a m e   u n d e r   h e a v y   c r i t i c i s m   w i t h   o n e   l a w m a k e r   c a l l i n g   i t   a   s h e l l   c o m p a n y   T h e   f i r m   w a s   a l s o   r i d i c u l e d   f o r   e c h o i n g   t h e   w e b s i t e   t e r m s   a n d   c o n d i t i o n s   o f   a   b u s i n e s s   s p e c i a l i z i n g   i n   t a k e o u t   m e a l s   S e a b o r n e   F r e i g h t   p u l l e d   o u t   o f   t h e   c o n t r a c t  
T h e   g o v e r n m e n t   s e t t l e d   t h e   c a s e   w i t h   E u r o t u n n e l   t o   a v o i d   a   p r o l o n g e d   l e g a l   t u s s l e   a s   i t   t r i e s   t o   m a k e   a r r a n g e m e n t s   f o r   M a r c h   2 9   w h e n   t h e   c o u n t r y   i s   s c h e d u l e d   t o   e x i t   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n  
G o v e r n m e n t   d e p a r t m e n t s   a n d   B r i t a i n s   b u s i n e s s e s   h a v e   b e e n   f u r i o u s l y   p r e p a r i n g   i n   c a s e   t h e   c o u n t r y   l e a v e s   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n   w i t h o u t   a n   a g r e e m e n t   s e t t i n g   t h e   t e r m s   o f   t h e   s e p a r a t i o n   T h e r e   a r e   f e a r s   t h a t   t h e   l a c k   o f   c l a r i t y   o v e r   p o r t   a r r a n g e m e n t s   c o u l d   l e a d   t o   g r i d l o c k   o n   t h e   r o a d s   a n d   p r o b l e m s   g e t t i n g   f o o d   a n d   m e d i c i n e   t o   p e o p l e   i n   B r i t a i n  
W e   a r e   t a k i n g   s t e p s   t o   e n s u r e   s u p p l y   c h a i n s   c o n t i n u e   t o   f u n c t i o n   w h a t e v e r   t h e   c i r c u m s t a n c e s   o f   o u r   d e p a r t u r e   a n d   t h a t   m i t i g a t i o n   i s   i n   p l a c e   t o   a v o i d   d i s r u p t i o n   a t   b o r d e r s   S t e p h e n   B a r c l a y   t h e   B r e x i t   s e c r e t a r y   s a i d   i n   a   s t a t e m e n t   o n   F r i d a y  
C h r i s   G r a y l i n g   t h e   t r a n s p o r t   s e c r e t a r y   a d d e d   W h i l e   i t   i s   d i s a p p o i n t i n g   t h a t   E u r o t u n n e l   c h o s e   t o   t a k e   l e g a l   a c t i o n   o n   c o n t r a c t s   i n   p l a c e   t o   e n s u r e   t h e   s m o o t h   s u p p l y   o f   v i t a l   m e d i c i n e s   I   a m   p l e a s e d   t h a t   t h i s   a g r e e m e n t   w i l l   e n s u r e   t h e   C h a n n e l   T u n n e l   i s   r e a d y   f o r   a   p o s t B r e x i t   w o r l d  
E u r o t u n n e l   a g r e e d   t o   w i t h d r a w   i t s   c a s e   a n d   t a k e   u n s p e c i f i e d   a c t i o n s   t o   i m p r o v e   s e c u r i t y   a n d   t r a f f i c   f l o w  
E u r o t u n n e l   h a s   c o n c l u d e d   a n   o u t o f c o u r t   a g r e e m e n t   w i t h   t h e   s e c r e t a r y   o f   s t a t e   f o r   t r a n s p o r t   t h a t   w i l l   e n s u r e   t h a t   t h e   C h a n n e l   T u n n e l   r e m a i n s   t h e   p r e f e r r e d   r o u t e   f o r   v i t a l   g o o d s   t o   t r a v e l   b e t w e e n   t h e   E U   a n d   t h e   U K   t h e   c o m p a n y   s a i d  
A m i e   T s a n g   i s   a   g e n e r a l   a s s i g n m e n t   b u s i n e s s   r e p o r t e r   b a s e d   i n   L o n d o n   w h e r e   s h e   h a s   c o v e r e d   a   v a r i e t y   o f   t o p i c s   i n c l u d i n g   t h e   g e n d e r   p a y   g a p   a v i a t i o n   a n d   t h e   L o n d o n   F a t b e r g     a m i e t s a n g  
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
G o o d   M o n d a y   W a n t   t h i s   b y   e m a i l   S i g n   u p   h e r e
B i p a r t i s a n   n e g o t i a t i o n s   t o   f o r g e   a   b o r d e r   s e c u r i t y   d e a l   b r o k e   d o w n   y e s t e r d a y   p o t e n t i a l l y   s e t t i n g   u p   t h e   f e d e r a l   g o v e r n m e n t   f o r   a n o t h e r   s h u t d o w n   a h e a d   o f   a   F r i d a y   d e a d l i n e
W h a t   h a p p e n e d   T h e   i m p a s s e   a p p e a r s   t o   c e n t e r   o n   D e m o c r a t i c   d e m a n d s   f o r   a   l i m i t   o n   t h e   n u m b e r   o f   u n a u t h o r i z e d   i m m i g r a n t s   a l r e a d y   i n   t h e   c o u n t r y   w h o   c o u l d   b e   d e t a i n e d   b y   I m m i g r a t i o n   a n d   C u s t o m s   E n f o r c e m e n t   o f f i c e r s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   a i d e s   f a m i l i a r   w i t h   t h e   t a l k s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   t h e   N Y T   R e p u b l i c a n s   w a n t e d   a n   e x c e p t i o n   t o   t h e   c a p   f o r   c r i m i n a l s   D e m o c r a t s   s a i d   a   p r o p o s e d   1 6 5 0 0 b e d   c a p   l e f t   m o r e   t h a n   e n o u g h   r o o m   f o r   t h e m
W h a t s   a t   s t a k e   T h e   l a s t   s h u t d o w n   t h e   l o n g e s t   i n   U S   h i s t o r y   c o s t   t h e   A m e r i c a n   e c o n o m y   1 1   b i l l i o n   a n d   t a n k e d   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p s   p o l i t i c a l   s t a n d i n g   w i t h   t h e   p u b l i c   A n o t h e r   s h u t d o w n   c o u l d   c a u s e   m o r e   e c o n o m i c   h a r m   h i t t i n g   t h e   I R S   j u s t   a s   t a x   s e a s o n   s t a r t s
W h a t s   n e x t   L a w m a k e r s   c o u l d   p a s s   a n o t h e r   s h o r t t e r m   s p e n d i n g   b i l l   t h o u g h   m a n y   a r e   r e l u c t a n t   t o   p u n t   o n   a   f i n a l   b u d g e t   a g r e e m e n t   a g a i n   M e a n w h i l e   M r   T r u m p   i s   p r e p a r i n g   t o   h o l d   a   r a l l y   f o r   s u p p o r t e r s   i n   E l   P a s o   M a n y   i n   t h e   c i t y   a r e n t   h a p p y   w i t h   t h a t   B u t   h e   r e a l l y   h a s   o n l y   t w o   c h o i c e s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   A x i o s   s h u t   d o w n   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   o r   d e c l a r e   a   n a t i o n a l   e m e r g e n c y   t o   g e t   b o r d e r   w a l l   m o n e y   a n d   b o t h   o p t i o n s   a r e   h o r r i b l e
T h e   A m a z o n   f o u n d e r   r i s k e d   e m b a r r a s s m e n t   b y   g o i n g   p u b l i c   w i t h   w h a t   h e   s a i d   w a s   a n   e x t o r t i o n   a t t e m p t   b y   T h e   N a t i o n a l   E n q u i r e r   S o   f a r   h e s   s c o r i n g   b i g   p o i n t s   S a t u r d a y   N i g h t   L i v e   j o k e s   a s i d e
H i s   d i s c l o s u r e   h a s   g o t t e n   r e s u l t s   F e d e r a l   p r o s e c u t o r s   a r e   r e v i e w i n g   h i s   e x t o r t i o n   c l a i m   t h e   N Y T   r e p o r t s   c i t i n g   u n n a m e d   s o u r c e s   I f   T h e   E n q u i r e r s   p a r e n t   c o m p a n y   b r o k e   t h e   l a w   i t   w o u l d   b e   i n   v i o l a t i o n   o f   a   n o n p r o s e c u t i o n   a g r e e m e n t   o v e r   i t s   p a y i n g   h u s h   m o n e y   t o   h e l p   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   i n   2 0 1 6   A   l a w y e r   f o r   t h e   p u b l i s h e r s   c h a i r m a n   s a i d   y e s t e r d a y   t h a t   t h e   c o m p a n y   c o m m i t t e d   n o   c r i m e
A n d   h e s   w i n n i n g   t h e   P R   b a t t l e   A t   a   t i m e   w h e n   b i l l i o n a i r e s   a r e   r e v i l e d   M a u r e e n   D o w d   o f   t h e   N Y T   w r i t e s   t h e   r i c h e s t   d u d e   o n   e a r t h   h a s   m a n a g e d   t o   c o m e   t h r o u g h   a   t r a u m a t i c   w e e k   i n s p i r i n g   a d m i r a t i o n   G l e n n   G r e e n w a l d   o f   T h e   I n t e r c e p t   c o u n t e r s   t h a t   i t   w o u l d   b e   o d d   f o r   M r   B e z o s   t o   g a i n   p i t y   g i v e n   t h a t   A m a z o n   i s   a   c r i t i c a l   p a r t n e r   f o r   t h e   U S   g o v e r n m e n t   i n   b u i l d i n g   a n   e v e r m o r e   i n v a s i v e   m i l i t a r i z e d   a n d   s p r a w l i n g   s u r v e i l l a n c e   s t a t e
W h e r e   d i d   T h e   E n q u i r e r   g o   w r o n g   D a n n y   W e s t n e a t   o f   T h e   S e a t t l e   T i m e s   p o i n t s   o u t   t h a t   i t   p i c k e d   a   f i g h t   w i t h   t h e   h e a d   o f   a   c o m p a n y   s o   p o w e r f u l   t h a t   i t   g o t   S e a t t l e   t o   c h a n g e   i t s   t a x   p o l i c i e s   a n d   w o n   3   b i l l i o n   i n   t a x   i n c e n t i v e s   f r o m   N e w   Y o r k   f o r   o f f i c e   s p a c e   Y o u   d o n t   p r e s s u r e   A m a z o n   I t   o n l y   g o e s   t h e   o t h e r   w a y   a r o u n d   M r   W e s t n e a t   w r i t e s
B u t   M r   B e z o s   c o u l d   s t i l l   l o s e   J o n   S w a r t z   o f   B a r r o n s   n o t e s   t h a t   A m a z o n   s h a r e s   f e l l   2 6   p e r c e n t   o n   F r i d a y   H i s   h a n d s o n   m a n a g e m e n t   i s   c o n s i d e r e d   c r u c i a l   t o   t h e   s u c c e s s   o f   t h e   c o m p a n y   a n d   a n y t h i n g   t h a t   p u l l s   h i s   a t t e n t i o n   a w a y   f r o m   d a y t o d a y   m a n a g e m e n t   i s   a t   l e a s t   a   c o n c e r n   f o r   i n v e s t o r s   M r   S w a r t z   w r i t e s
F e a r s   t h a t   B r i t a i n s   w i t h d r a w a l   f r o m   t h e   E U   c o u l d   r o i l   e c o n o m i e s   h a v e   n o w   o f f i c i a l l y   s p r e a d   a c r o s s   t h e   A t l a n t i c
W a l l   S t r e e t   h a s   b e e n   w a r n e d   a b o u t   B r e x i t s   i m p a c t   W i t h   l e s s   t h a n   s e v e n   w e e k s   t o   g o   b e f o r e   t h e   U K   i s   d u e   t o   l e a v e   t h e   E U   s e v e r a l   S P   5 0 0   g r o u p s   h a v e   f o r   t h e   f i r s t   t i m e   p u t   W a l l   S t r e e t   o n   f o r m a l   n o t i c e   o f   t h e   r i s k s   s h o u l d   L o n d o n   a n d   B r u s s e l s   f a i l   t o   r e a c h   a   d i v o r c e   d e a l   t h e   F T   r e p o r t s   C o m p a n i e s   l i k e   L o c k h e e d   M a r t i n   M c C o r m i c k   E x p e d i a   a n d   C a d b u r y   h a v e   a l l   s p o k e n   o u t
D r i v i n g   t h e   c o n c e r n   a r e   f e a r s   t h a t   a   d e p r e s s e d   p o u n d   c o u l d   m a k e   A m e r i c a n   g o o d s   u n a f f o r d a b l e   i n   B r i t a i n   w h i l e   t h e   c o s t s   o f   i m p o r t e d   B r i t i s h   g o o d s   c o u l d   r i s e   T h e r e s   a l s o   a   f e a r   a b o u t   t h e   b r o a d e r   e f f e c t   o f   B r e x i t   o n   g l o b a l   p o l i t i c a l   a n d   e c o n o m i c   s t a b i l i t y
A m e r i c a n   b a n k s   a r e   a l s o   n e r v o u s   W h i l e   U S   b a n k s   w a n t   B r i t a i n   t o   m a i n t a i n   t h e   c l o s e s t   p o s s i b l e   t i e s   w i t h   t h e   E U   a f t e r   B r e x i t   U K   b a n k s   a n d   i n s u r e r s   a r e   a n x i o u s   t h e y   d o n t   b e c o m e   b e h o l d e n   t o   n e w   l a w s   m a d e   b y   B r u s s e l s   B l o o m b e r g   r e p o r t s
M o r e   B r e x i t   n e w s   T h e   E U s   c h i e f   B r e x i t   n e g o t i a t o r   M i c h e l   B a r n i e r   s a i d   t h a t   h e   w i l l   n o t   r e o p e n   t h e   e x i s t i n g   B r e x i t   d e a l   b u t   i s   o p e n   t o   r e w o r k i n g   t h e   p o l i t i c a l   d e c l a r a t i o n   t h a t   a c c o m p a n i e s   i t   T h e   B r i t i s h   g o v e r n m e n t   i s   t r y i n g   t o   s e c u r e   a n   e x t r a   t w o   w e e k s   i n   w h i c h   t o   w i n   c o n c e s s i o n s   f r o m   E u r o p e   b y   p r o m i s i n g   l a w m a k e r s   a n o t h e r   v o t e   o n   B r i t a i n s   w i t h d r a w a l   o p t i o n s   A n d   P r i m e   M i n i s t e r   T h e r e s a   M a y   h a s   a l s o   o f f e r e d   c o n c e s s i o n s   t o   t h e   o p p o s i n g   L a b o u r   P a r t y   t o   b r e a k   t h e   c u r r e n t   i m p a s s e   i n   P a r l i a m e n t
A m e r i c a n s   a r e   g e t t i n g   a   r u d e   s u r p r i s e   T h e i r   r e f u n d s   a p p e a r   t o   b e   g e t t i n g   s m a l l e r   d e s p i t e   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   a n d   R e p u b l i c a n s   p a s s i n g   a   h u g e   s e t   o f   t a x   c u t s   o v e r   a   y e a r   a g o
H o w   b i g   i s   t h e   d r o p   T h e   a v e r a g e   r e f u n d   o f   1 8 6 5   w a s   8 4   p e r c e n t   s m a l l e r   t h a n   t h e   a v e r a g e   r e f u n d   i n   t h e   p e r i o d   l a s t   y e a r   R e u t e r s   r e p o r t s   c i t i n g   f i g u r e s   f r o m   t h e   I R S   H e a t h e r   L o n g   o f   t h e   W a P o   a d d s   t h a t   t h e   n u m b e r   o f   p e o p l e   r e c e i v i n g   a   r e f u n d   h a s   f a l l e n   b y   n e a r l y   2 5   p e r c e n t   s o   f a r   T h e   I R S   w a r n s   n o t   t o   r e a d   t o o   m u c h   i n t o   t h e   f i g u r e s   b e c a u s e   t h i s   i s   j u s t   p a r t   o f   t h e   d a t a     a   r e s u l t   o f   d e l a y e d   p r o c e s s i n g   d u e   t o   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   s h u t d o w n
W h y   i s   t h i s   h a p p e n i n g   I t s   n o t   a c t u a l l y   a   s i g n   t h a t   A m e r i c a n s   a r e   p a y i n g   m o r e   i n   t a x e s   P e o p l e   g e n e r a l l y   g o t   a   p i e c e   o f   t h e i r   t a x   c u t   l a s t   y e a r   g r a d u a l l y   i n   t h e   f o r m   o f   l o w e r   w i t h h o l d i n g   o n   t h e i r   p a y c h e c k s   J o s e p h   R o s e n b e r g   o f   t h e   U r b a n B r o o k i n g s   T a x   P o l i c y   C e n t e r   t o l d   t h e   W a P o
P e o p l e   a r e   a n g r y   n o n e t h e l e s s   T h e   W a P o   r e p o r t s   P e o p l e   h a v e   a l r e a d y   t a k e n   t o   s o c i a l   m e d i a   u s i n g   t h e   h a s h t a g   G O P T a x S c a m   t o   v e n t   t h e i r   a n g e r   M a n y   b l a m e   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   a n d   t h e   R e p u b l i c a n s   f o r   s h r i n k i n g   r e f u n d s   S o m e   o n   T w i t t e r   e v e n   s a i d   t h e y   w o u l d n t   v o t e   f o r   T r u m p   a g a i n   a f t e r   s e e i n g   t h e i r   r e f u n d s   s l a s h e d
T h e   l a s t   c l a s s   o f   t e c h   c o m p a n i e s   t h a t   g a i n e d   v a l u a t i o n s   o f   o v e r   1   b i l l i o n   i n c l u d i n g   U b e r   a n d   A i r b n b   r e m a d e   e n t i r e   i n d u s t r i e s   D o n t   e x p e c t   t h e   n e x t   w a v e   t o   b e   n e a r l y   a s   f l a s h y   a c c o r d i n g   t o   E r i n   G r i f f i t h   o f   t h e   N Y T
W h o   a r e   t h e y   T h e y   h a v e   n a m e s   l i k e   B e n c h l i n g   C h e c k r   a n d   Z o l a   a n d   m a n y   c r e a t e   s o f t w a r e   f o r   s p e c i f i c   i n d u s t r i e s     i n c l u d i n g   d a t a   a n a l y s i s   s y s t e m s   f o r   f a r m e r s   a n d   b a c k g r o u n d   c h e c k s   f o r   g i g   w o r k e r s
W h y   a r e n t   t h e y   a s   e x c i t i n g   a s   t h e i r   p r e d e c e s s o r s   M s   G r i f f i t h   p o i n t s   o u t   t h a t   U b e r   A i r b n b   a n d   t h e i r   p e e r s   b u i l t   g l o b a l   e m p i r e s   b y   s i m p l y   t a k i n g   e x i s t i n g   b u s i n e s s e s     l i k e   t a x i s   f o o d   d e l i v e r y   a n d   h o t e l s     a n d   m a k i n g   t h e m   m o b i l e   E a s y   o p p o r t u n i t i e s   t o   d i s r u p t   t r a d i t i o n a l   b u s i n e s s e s   h a v e   d r i e d   u p   f o r c i n g   n e w   c o m p a n i e s   t o   f i n d   s m a l l e r   n i c h e s
B u t   d o n t   u n d e r e s t i m a t e   t h e i r   p o t e n t i a l   M a y b e   i t s   n o t   a s   s e x y   a s   t h e   c o m p a n i e s   i n   t h e   f i r s t   w a v e   t h e   v e n t u r e   c a p i t a l i s t   K i r s t e n   G r e e n   c o n c e d e d   t o   t h e   N Y T   B u t   A n a n d   S a n w a l   o f   t h e   d a t a   p r o v i d e r   C B   I n s i g h t s   s a i d   t h e y   w e r e   s t i l l   g r o w i n g   f a s t   a d d i n g   I f   y o u   a r e   o n e   o f   t h o s e   h i g h m o m e n t u m   c o m p a n i e s   i n v e s t o r s   a r e   g o i n g   t o   b e   b e a t i n g   d o w n   y o u r   d o o r   b e c a u s e   t h e r e   i s   s o   m u c h   i n t e r e s t   i n   i n v e s t i n g   i n   t h e   n e x t   b i g   w i n n e r
C h r i s t i n e   L a g a r d e   t h e   m a n a g i n g   d i r e c t o r   o f   t h e   I n t e r n a t i o n a l   M o n e t a r y   F u n d   w a r n e d   y e s t e r d a y   o f   a   g l o b a l   e c o n o m y   t h a t   i s   g r o w i n g   m o r e   s l o w l y   t h a n   w e   h a d   a n t i c i p a t e d
S h e   s e e s   f o u r   b i g   r i s k s   T r a d e   t e n s i o n s   a n d   t a r i f f   e s c a l a t i o n s   f i n a n c i a l   t i g h t e n i n g   u n c e r t a i n t y   r e l a t e d   t o   B r e x i t   o u t c o m e   a n d   s p i l l o v e r   i m p a c t   a n d   a n   a c c e l e r a t e d   s l o w d o w n   o f   t h e   C h i n e s e   e c o n o m y   a r e   a l l   c l o u d s   o n   t h e   h o r i z o n   s h e   t o l d   t h e   W o r l d   G o v e r n m e n t   S u m m i t   i n   D u b a i
A n d   t h e y   c o u l d   s p e l l   t r o u b l e   W h e n   t h e r e   a r e   t o o   m a n y   c l o u d s   s h e   a d d e d   i t   t a k e s   j u s t   o n e   l i g h t i n g   b o l t   t o   s t a r t   t h e   s t o r m
B u t   t h e   I M F   t h i n k s   t h e   F e d   i s   p l a y i n g   s m a r t   T h e   f a c t   t h a t   t h e   F e d   h a s   p u t   a   p a u s e   o n   r a i s i n g   r a t e s   i s   g o i n g   t o   p r o v i d e   a   l o t   o f   s u p p o r t   t o   t h e   e c o n o m y   G i t a   G o p i n a t h   t h e   I M F s   t o p   e c o n o m i s t   t o l d   t h e   F T   W e   e n d o r s e   t h e   F e d   v i e w   o f   h a v i n g   a   d a t a d r i v e n   a p p r o a c h
P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   i s   e x p e c t e d   t o   s i g n   a n   e x e c u t i v e   o r d e r   t o d a y   m e a n t   t o   s p u r   t h e   d e v e l o p m e n t   a n d   r e g u l a t i o n   o f   a r t i f i c i a l   i n t e l l i g e n c e   C a d e   M e t z   o f   t h e   N Y T   w r i t e s
T h e   n e w s   M r   T r u m p   i s   t o   i n t r o d u c e   t h e   A m e r i c a n   A I   I n i t i a t i v e   w h i c h   a i m s   t o   b e t t e r   e d u c a t e   w o r k e r s   i n   t h e   f i e l d   i m p r o v e   a c c e s s   t o   t h e   c l o u d   c o m p u t i n g   s e r v i c e s   a n d   d a t a   n e e d e d   t o   b u i l d   A I   s y s t e m s   a n d   p r o m o t e   c o o p e r a t i o n   w i t h   f o r e i g n   p o w e r s
C o n t e x t   A I   e x p e r t s   a c r o s s   i n d u s t r y   a c a d e m i a   a n d   g o v e r n m e n t   h a v e   l o n g   c a l l e d   o n   t h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   t o   m a k e   t h e   d e v e l o p m e n t   o f   a r t i f i c i a l   i n t e l l i g e n c e   a   m a j o r   p r i o r i t y   M r   M e t z   w r i t e s   a d d i n g   t h a t   t h e y   a r e   c o n c e r n e d   t h a t   C h i n a   c o u l d   s u r p a s s   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   i n   t h e   d e v e l o p m e n t   o f   s u c h   t e c h n o l o g i e s
B u t   T h e   o r d e r   d o e s   n o t   s e t   a s i d e   f u n d s   f o r   A I   r e s e a r c h   a n d   d e v e l o p m e n t   M r   M e t z   a d d s   a n d   t h e   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   p r o v i d e d   f e w   d e t a i l s   o n   h o w   i t   w i l l   p u t   i t s   n e w   p o l i c i e s   i n t o   e f f e c t
S t e v e   M a n d e l   h a s   s t e p p e d   d o w n   a s   t h e   h e a d   o f   t h e   h e d g e   f u n d   L o n e   P i n e   C a p i t a l
A m o n g   t h e   r e a s o n s   S a n t a n d e r   r e s c i n d e d   i t s   o f f e r   t o   h i r e   t h e   i n v e s t m e n t   b a n k e r   A n d r e a   O r c e l   R e p o r t e d l y   h i s   d e s i r e   t o   a t t e n d   t h e   W o r l d   E c o n o m i c   F o r u m   i n   D a v o s   S w i t z e r l a n d
K r i s t i n a   S a l e n   a   f o r m e r   c h i e f   f i n a n c i a l   o f f i c e r   o f   t h e   s h o p p i n g   s i t e   E t s y   h a s   j o i n e d   M o d a   O p e r a n d i   a   l u x u r y   f a s h i o n   s t a r t u p   a s   i t s   C F O
T h e   E n g l i s h   P r e m i e r   L e a g u e   i s   l o o k i n g   t o   A m e r i c a   f o r   a   s u c c e s s o r   t o   i t s   C E O   R i c h a r d   S c u d a m o r e   B r i t i s h   c a n d i d a t e s   a p p e a r   u n i n t e r e s t e d   i n   t h e   j o b
D e a l s
  T h e   a l u m i n u m p a r t s   m a k e r   A r c o n i c   p l a n s   t o   b r e a k   i t s e l f   u p   W S J
  A p o l l o   G l o b a l   M a n a g e m e n t   i s   r e p o r t e d l y   n e a r   a   d e a l   t o   b u y   C o x   E n t e r p r i s e s s   1 4   r e g i o n a l   T V   s t a t i o n s   f o r   a b o u t   3   b i l l i o n   R e u t e r s
  T h e   m e d i c a l   e q u i p m e n t   m a k e r   S m i t h     N e p h e w   r e p o r t e d l y   h e l d   t a l k s   t o   b u y   N u V a s i v e   a   m a k e r   o f   m e d i c a l   i n s t r u m e n t s   f o r   s p i n a l   s u r g e r i e s   f o r   m o r e   t h a n   3   b i l l i o n   F T
  T P G   C a p i t a l   c l o s e d   i t s   s e v e n t h   A s i a f o c u s e d   p r i v a t e   e q u i t y   f u n d   a t   o v e r   4 6   b i l l i o n   R e u t e r s
P o l i t i c s   a n d   p o l i c y
  D e m o c r a t i c   l a w m a k e r s   a r e   p r o p o s i n g   s t e e p   n e w   t a x e s   o n   t h e   s u p e r r i c h     a n d   t h e   p u b l i c   l o v e s   i t   N Y T
  S e n a t o r   M i c h a e l   B e n n e t   D e m o c r a t   o f   C o l o r a d o   a n d   a   p o t e n t i a l   p r e s i d e n t i a l   c a n d i d a t e   s a y s   t h a t   c u t t i n g   p r i v a t e   h e a l t h   i n s u r a n c e   a s   p a r t   o f   M e d i c a r e   f o r   a l l   i s   a   b a d   o p e n i n g   o f f e r   P o l i t i c o
  P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   s u c c e e d e d   i n   d i v i d i n g   D e m o c r a t s   b y   w a r n i n g   a b o u t   s o c i a l i s m   H i l l
  T h e   b i g g e s t   s t a r   o f   C l i v e   D a v i s s   e x c l u s i v e   p r e G r a m m y s   g a l a   S p e a k e r   N a n c y   P e l o s i   A P
T r a d e
  T r a d e   t a l k s   b e t w e e n   t h e   U S   a n d   C h i n a   r e s u m e   t o d a y   i n   B e i j i n g   S t r a i t s   T i m e s
  W h i t e   H o u s e   o f f i c i a l s   h a v e   r e p o r t e d l y   d i s c u s s e d   a   s u m m i t   m e e t i n g   b e t w e e n   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   a n d   P r e s i d e n t   X i   J i n p i n g   o f   C h i n a   a t   M a r a L a g o   n e x t   m o n t h   t o   r e s o l v e   t h e   t r a d e   f i g h t   A x i o s
  T h e   t r a d e   a g r e e m e n t   t o   r e p l a c e   N a f t a   f a c e s   a n   u p h i l l   c l i m b   i n   C o n g r e s s   A x i o s
T e c h
  S o m e   A m a z o n   e x e c u t i v e s   a r e   r e p o r t e d l y   r e c o n s i d e r i n g   t h e   d e c i s i o n   t o   s e t   u p   a   c a m p u s   i n   N e w   Y o r k   b u t   o p p o n e n t s   t h i n k   t h a t   m i g h t   b e   a   b l u f f   W S J   R e c o d e
  H u a w e i   h a s   t h r e a t e n e d   t o   s u e   t h e   C z e c h   R e p u b l i c   i f   t h e   c o u n t r y s   c y b e r s e c u r i t y   a g e n c y   d o e s   n o t   r e s c i n d   a   w a r n i n g   a b o u t   t h e   r i s k   t h e   c o m p a n y   p o s e s   t o   t h e   n a t i o n s   c r i t i c a l   i n f r a s t r u c t u r e   N Y T
  S p r i n t   a c c u s e d   A T T   o f   f a l s e   a d v e r t i s i n g   s a y i n g   t h a t   i t s   r i v a l   i s   i n c o r r e c t l y   t e l l i n g   c u s t o m e r s   t h a t   t h e y   a r e   r e c e i v i n g   5 G   d a t a   s e r v i c e   W S J
  T e s l a   m a y   f i n a l l y   b e   d e l i v e r i n g   M o d e l   3 s   b u t   n o w   i t   c a n t   k e e p   u p   w i t h   s e r v i c i n g   t h e m   W S J
B e s t   o f   t h e   r e s t
  A   n e w   a c t i v i s t   h e d g e   f u n d   I m p a c t i v e   C a p i t a l   i s   a   r a r i t y   I t s   f e m a l e   a n d   m i n o r i t y l e d   W S J
  H o u s e h o l d   s t a p l e s   f r o m   d i a p e r s   t o   b a k i n g   s o d a   m a y   g e t   m o r e   e x p e n s i v e   W S J
  U S   c o l l e g e s   r a i s e d   4 6 7   b i l l i o n   i n   t h e   y e a r   t h a t   e n d e d   l a s t   J u n e   l e d   b y   H a r v a r d   w i t h   1 4   b i l l i o n   B l o o m b e r g
  H e r e s   a   r u n d o w n   o f   t h e   1 0 0   m o s t   s u s t a i n a b l e   U S   c o m p a n i e s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   B a r r o n s   B a r r o n s
  H o w   t h e   F e d s   r e c e n t   U t u r n   o n   r a t e s   c a s c a d e d   t h r o u g h   g l o b a l   m a r k e t s   N Y T
T h a n k s   f o r   r e a d i n g   W e l l   s e e   y o u   t o m o r r o w
W e d   l o v e   y o u r   f e e d b a c k   P l e a s e   e m a i l   t h o u g h t s   a n d   s u g g e s t i o n s   t o   b u s i n e s s n y t i m e s c o m
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   I v a n   N e c h e p u r e n k o
M O S C O W     R u s s i a n   l a w m a k e r s   m o v i n g   t o   f u r t h e r   r e s t r i c t   f r e e d o m   o f   s p e e c h   p a s s e d   b i l l s   o n   T h u r s d a y   t h a t   w o u l d   i n t r o d u c e   j a i l   t e r m s   a n d   f i n e s   f o r   i n s u l t i n g   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   o n l i n e   o r   s p r e a d i n g   s o c a l l e d   f a k e   n e w s
T h e   b i l l s   a r e   s e e n   a s   a n   e f f o r t   t o   p r e e m p t   a n d   c o n t r o l   p u b l i c   c r i t i c i s m   a s   R u s s i a s   p r o l o n g e d   e c o n o m i c   s t a g n a t i o n   p u s h e s   d o w n   t h e   K r e m l i n s   a p p r o v a l   r a t i n g s   T h e y   r e f l e c t   a   n e a r l y   t w o d e c a d e l o n g   p r o j e c t   b y   P r e s i d e n t   V l a d i m i r   V   P u t i n   t o   p u t   i n f o r m a t i o n   f l o w   u n d e r   s t a t e   c o n t r o l   a   p u s h   m a d e   m o r e   d i f f i c u l t   b y   t h e   g r o w t h   o f   t h e   i n t e r n e t
T h e   n e w   m e a s u r e s   a w a i t   f i n a l   p a s s a g e   i n   t h e   u p p e r   c h a m b e r   o f   p a r l i a m e n t   a n d   M r   P u t i n s   s i g n a t u r e   H e   h a s   e x p r e s s e d   s u p p o r t   f o r   r e s t r i c t i o n s   a g a i n s t   i n s u l t i n g   t h e   s t a t e   o n l i n e
O n e   s e t   o f   b i l l s   p a s s e d   b y   t h e   l o w e r   h o u s e   t h e   D u m a   w o u l d   s u b j e c t   p r i v a t e   i n d i v i d u a l s   t o   f i n e s   o f   u p   t o   3 0 0 0   o r   1 5   d a y s   o f   a d m i n i s t r a t i v e   a r r e s t   f o r   i n s u l t i n g   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   o n l i n e   I n d i v i d u a l s   w o u l d   f a c e   f i n e s   o f   u p   t o   6 0 0 0   f o r   p o s t i n g   w h a t   i s   t e r m e d   f a k e   n e w s
A n o t h e r   b i l l   w o u l d   d e m a n d   t h a t   n e w s   m e d i a   o u t l e t s   a n d   o t h e r   w e b s i t e s   r e m o v e   a n y   i n f o r m a t i o n   t h a t   s h o w s   c l e a r   d i s r e s p e c t   t o   t h e   s o c i e t y   t h e   s t a t e   o r   i t s   s y m b o l s   t h e   R u s s i a n   C o n s t i t u t i o n   o r   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   I n t e r n e t   s e r v i c e   p r o v i d e r s   a n d   w e b s i t e   o w n e r s   w o u l d   h a v e   o n e   d a y   t o   r e m o v e   t h e   i n s u l t s   o r   f a c e   a   c o m p l e t e   b l o c k
L a w m a k e r s   a l s o   p a s s e d   a   b i l l   t h a t   w o u l d   f o r c e   w e b s i t e s   t o   i m m e d i a t e l y   r e m o v e   a n y   f a l s e   p u b l i c l y   i m p o r t a n t   i n f o r m a t i o n   t h a t   a   g o v e r n m e n t   w a t c h d o g   d e e m s   t o   b e   a   t h r e a t   t o   p u b l i c   o r d e r
T h e   m e a s u r e s   d i d   n o t   s t i p u l a t e   c l e a r l y   w h a t   w o u l d   b e   c o n s i d e r e d   f a k e   n e w s   T h e   a u t h o r s   s a i d   i n   i n t e r v i e w s   t h a t   t h i s   w o u l d   b e   d e t e r m i n e d   b y   s t a t e   p r o s e c u t o r s   a n d   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   c o m m u n i c a t i o n s   w a t c h d o g
C r i t i c s   s a i d   t h a t   t h e   m e a s u r e s   w e r e   l o o s e l y   d e f i n e d   t o   a l l o w   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   t o   b l o c k   a n y   i n f o r m a t i o n   o n l i n e   t h a t   i t   f i n d s   u n d e s i r a b l e
W i t h   t h e   b i l l s   w o r d i n g   a s   v a g u e   a s   p o s s i b l e   V l a d i m i r   A   R y z h k o v   a n   o p p o s i t i o n   p o l i t i c i a n   s a i d   o n   F a c e b o o k   i t   w i l l   c r e a t e   p o s s i b i l i t i e s   f o r   t h e   w i d e s t   p o s s i b l e   a r b i t r a r i n e s s   f o r   l a w   e n f o r c e m e n t   A s   a   r e s u l t   t h e   s o c i e t y s   t r u s t   i n   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   w i l l   f a l l   d o w n   a n d   t h e   p u b l i c   a t m o s p h e r e   w i l l   b e   p o i s o n e d
A s   m o r e   R u s s i a n s   s w i t c h   f r o m   t e l e v i s i o n     l a r g e l y   c o n t r o l l e d   b y   t h e   s t a t e   o r   K r e m l i n   a l l i e s     t o   t h e   i n t e r n e t   a s   t h e i r   m a i n   s o u r c e   o f   i n f o r m a t i o n   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   h a s   m a d e   k e e p i n g   t h e   w e b   u n d e r   i t s   c o n t r o l   a   t o p   p r i o r i t y
I n   F e b r u a r y   l a w m a k e r s   p r o p o s e d   c r e a t i n g   t h e   i n f r a s t r u c t u r e   t o   s e p a r a t e   R u s s i a   f r o m   t h e   g l o b a l   i n t e r n e t   a l t o g e t h e r   L a s t   y e a r   t h e   s t a t e   b a n n e d   T e l e g r a m   a   p o p u l a r   m e s s a g i n g   a p p
T h e   R u s s i a n   g o v e r n m e n t   h a s   o p e n e d   i t s   a s s a u l t   o n   s o c a l l e d   f a k e   n e w s   e v e n   a s   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   h a s   a c c u s e d   M o s c o w   o f   e n g a g i n g   i n   t h e   p r a c t i c e   i t s e l f   t h r o u g h   a   d i s i n f o r m a t i o n   c a m p a i g n   t h a t   w a s   i n t e n d e d   t o   s w a y   t h e   2 0 1 6   A m e r i c a n   p r e s i d e n t i a l   e l e c t i o n
T h e   n e w   b i l l s   w e r e   p a s s e d   a s   R u s s i a n s   t r u s t   i n   g o v e r n m e n t   a g e n c i e s   a n d   M r   P u t i n   i n   p a r t i c u l a r   h a s   b e e n   s t e a d i l y   d e c l i n i n g   F o r   t h e   f i r s t   t i m e   s i n c e   t h e   a n n e x a t i o n   o f   C r i m e a   i n   2 0 1 4   t h e   n u m b e r   o f   R u s s i a n s   w h o   s a y   t h a t   t h e   c o u n t r y   i s   h e a d i n g   i n   t h e   w r o n g   d i r e c t i o n   h a s   s u r p a s s e d   t h o s e   w h o   s a y   t h e   o p p o s i t e   T h e   f i n d i n g   c a m e   i n   a   p o l l   c o n d u c t e d   i n   J a n u a r y   b y   t h e   i n d e p e n d e n t   p o l l s t e r   L e v a d a
T h e   s h a r e   o f   p e o p l e   w h o   a p p r o v e   o f   M r   P u t i n s   w o r k   a s   p r e s i d e n t   h a s   d e c l i n e d   b y   a b o u t   2 0   p e r c e n t a g e   p o i n t s   s i n c e   i t   r e a c h e d   a   p o s t C r i m e a   p e a k   o f   8 6   p e r c e n t   i n   2 0 1 5
N i k o l a i   F   U s k o v   e d i t o r   o f   F o r b e s   R u s s i a   m a g a z i n e   a n d   a   f r e q u e n t   c o m m e n t a t o r   s a i d   t h a t   t h e   b i l l s   w e r e   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t s   w e a p o n   a g a i n s t   t h e   m e d i a
T h e   g o v e r n m e n t   i s   c l e a r l y   g e t t i n g   r e a d y   t h a t   p r o t e s t   m o o d s   w i l l   g r o w   a n d   t h a t   t h i s   w i l l   b e   r e f l e c t e d   i n   p u b l i c a t i o n s   i n   s o c i a l   n e t w o r k s   a n d   b y   t h e   m e d i a   h e   s a i d   s p e a k i n g   a t   E k h o   M o s k v y   a   r a d i o   s t a t i o n   I   d o n t   t h i n k   t h i s   w i l l   s a v e   t h e   s t a t e   h e   a d d e d   b e c a u s e   t h e   w a v e   o f   a n g e r   w i l l   s w e e p   a w a y   a l l   r e s t r i c t i o n s
F o l l o w   I v a n   N e c h e p u r e n k o   o n   T w i t t e r   I N e c h e p u r e n k o


A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   D a v i d   Z u c c h i n o   a n d   F a h i m   A b e d
K A B U L   A f g h a n i s t a n     A f g h a n i s t a n s   c o a l i t i o n   g o v e r n m e n t   f i r e d   o n   T u e s d a y   a l l   t h e   c o m m i s s i o n e r s   w h o   d i r e c t e d   f r a u d t a i n t e d   p a r l i a m e n t a r y   e l e c t i o n s   l a s t   f a l l   a s   t h e   c o u n t r y   p r e p a r e s   f o r   a   p r e s i d e n t i a l   r a c e   t h i s   s u m m e r   a n d   w a t c h e s   w i t h   i t s   l e a d e r s   o n   t h e   s i d e l i n e s   p e a c e   t a l k s   u n f o l d   b e t w e e n   A m e r i c a n s   a n d   t h e   T a l i b a n
T h e   m o v e   f o l l o w s   a   p u s h   b y   s o m e   o p p o s i t i o n   p o l i t i c i a n s   t o   p o s t p o n e   t h e   e l e c t i o n   a n d   f o r m   a n   i n t e r i m   g o v e r n m e n t   t h a t   a s   p a r t   o f   a   p e a c e   d e a l   c o u l d   i n c l u d e   t h e   T a l i b a n   P r e s i d e n t   A s h r a f   G h a n i   w h o   h a s   f u m e d   o v e r   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t s   e x c l u s i o n   f r o m   t h e   A m e r i c a n T a l i b a n   t a l k s   h a s   i n s i s t e d   t h a t   t h e   e l e c t i o n   b e   h e l d   o n   t i m e
T h e   f i r i n g s   w h i c h   c a m e   a f t e r   a   s e r i e s   o f   m e e t i n g s   b e t w e e n   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   c i v i l   s o c i e t y   g r o u p s   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   p a r t i e s   w e r e   p o r t r a y e d   a s   a   b a d l y   n e e d e d   c o n s e n s u s   o n   e l e c t o r a l   r e f o r m   T h e   c o m m i s s i o n e r s   c a l l e d   t h e i r   d i s m i s s a l   a   p o l i t i c a l   d e c i s i o n   b y   o f f i c i a l s   w h o   h o p e   t o   s e r v e   i n   a   n e w   g o v e r n m e n t
T h e   e l e c t i o n   h a d   a l r e a d y   b e e n   p u s h e d   b a c k   f r o m   A p r i l   t o   J u l y   T h e   p a n e l   b e h i n d   t h a t   d e c i s i o n   t h e   I n d e p e n d e n t   E l e c t i o n   C o m m i s s i o n   w a s   o n e   o f   t w o   w h o s e   m e m b e r s   w e r e   r e m o v e d   o n   T u e s d a y
R e p l a c e m e n t   c o m m i s s i o n e r s   n a m e d   b y   M r   G h a n i   a n d   h i s   c o a l i t i o n   p a r t n e r   A b d u l l a h   A b d u l l a h   w i l l   b e   c h a r g e d   w i t h   p r e p a r i n g   f o r   a   p r e s i d e n t i a l   e l e c t i o n   t h a t   w i l l   f e a t u r e   b o t h   m e n   a s   c a n d i d a t e s
M r   G h a n i   h a s   s a i d   t h a t   o n l y   a   c e n t r a l   g o v e r n m e n t   w i t h   a   s t r o n g   m a n d a t e   c a n   n e g o t i a t e   o n   b e h a l f   o f   t h e   c o u n t r y   T h e   T a l i b a n   d e a l i n g   d i r e c t l y   w i t h   t h e   A m e r i c a n s   h a v e   r e f u s e d   t o   i n c l u d e   a n   A f g h a n   g o v e r n m e n t   t h e y   c o n s i d e r   i l l e g i t i m a t e
Z a l m a y   K h a l i l i z a d   t h e   l e a d e r   o f   t h e   A m e r i c a n   d e l e g a t i o n   s a i d   l a s t   w e e k   t h a t   h e   h o p e d   t o   s e c u r e   a   p e a c e   d e a l   b e f o r e   t h e   J u l y   e l e c t i o n   H e   s a i d   l a s t   m o n t h   t h a t   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   a n d   t h e   T a l i b a n   h a d   a g r e e d   i n   p r i n c i p l e   t o   t h e   f r a m e w o r k   o f   a   p e a c e   d e a l
T h e   A f g h a n   e l e c t i o n   c o m m i s s i o n   w a s   w i d e l y   a c c u s e d   o f   s o w i n g   c o n f u s i o n   a n d   d i s a r r a y   d u r i n g   a n d   a f t e r   t h e   O c t o b e r   p a r l i a m e n t a r y   e l e c t i o n s   w h i c h   w e r e   t h r e e   y e a r s   l a t e   a n d   t a i n t e d   b y   a c c u s a t i o n s   o f   v o t e r i g g i n g   b r i b e r y   a n d   i n c o m p e t e n c e   W i n n e r s   h a v e   b e e n   c e r t i f i e d   f o r   o n l y   a b o u t   a   t h i r d   o f   t h e   2 5 0   s e a t s   i n   P a r l i a m e n t
T h e   a t t o r n e y   g e n e r a l s   o f f i c e   h a s   p r o s e c u t e d   3 1 3   p e o p l e   a c c u s e d   o f   v i o l a t i o n s   i n c l u d i n g   f o r g i n g   o r   s e l l i n g   e l e c t i o n   s t i c k e r s   a n d   n a t i o n a l   I D   c a r d s   n e e d e d   t o   c a s t   a   v o t e
I n   a   s t a t e m e n t   l a t e   T u e s d a y   t h e   o f f i c e   s a i d   t h a t   t h e   1 2   c o m m i s s i o n e r s   f r o m   t h e   t w o   e l e c t i o n   b o d i e s   w e r e   b a r r e d   f r o m   l e a v i n g   t h e   c o u n t r y   a n d   t h a t   i n v e s t i g a t o r s   h a d   b e e n   a p p o i n t e d   t o   l o o k   i n t o   c h a r g e s   o f   a b u s e   o f   a u t h o r i t y
T h e   f i r i n g s   h a v e   s e t   u p   a   l e g a l   c o n f r o n t a t i o n   w i t h   a l l   o f   t h e   d i s m i s s e d   m e m b e r s   s a y i n g   t h e   m o v e   v i o l a t e d   e l e c t i o n   l a w
T h e   a m e n d m e n t   o f   t h e   e l e c t i o n   l a w   b y   a   p r e s i d e n t i a l   d e c r e e   o f   a   p r e s i d e n t   w h o   i s   a l s o   a   c a n d i d a t e   i s   a g a i n s t   t h e   C o n s t i t u t i o n   t h e   c o m m i s s i o n e r s   s a i d   i n   a   j o i n t   s t a t e m e n t   T h i s   i s   a   p o l i t i c a l   d e c i s i o n   n o t   a   l e g a l   o r   c o n s t i t u t i o n a l   o n e
M r   G h a n i s   d e p u t y   s p o k e s m a n   S h a h h u s a i n   M u r t a z a w i   s a i d   t h e   e l e c t i o n   r e s u l t s   r e m a i n   i n   p l a c e   f o r   n o w   H e   s a i d   p r o t e s t s   c o u l d   b e   l o d g e d   w i t h   t h e   s e c o n d   a f f e c t e d   c o m m i s s i o n   c a l l e d   t h e   I n d e p e n d e n t   E l e c t i o n   C o m p l a i n t   C o m m i s s i o n   o r   w i t h   j u d i c i a l   g r o u p s   T h e   h e a d   o f   t h e   c o m m i s s i o n s   s e c r e t a r i a t   r e m a i n s   i n   p l a c e   a s   a c t i n g   d i r e c t o r
G i v e n   t h a t   t h e   o f f i c i a l s   w h o   a d m i n i s t e r e d   t h e   e l e c t i o n   h a v e   n o w   b e e n   f i r e d   s o m e   o f   t h e   r o u g h l y   2 0 0 0   l o s i n g   c a n d i d a t e s   a r e   e x p e c t e d   t o   p r o t e s t   I f   t h e   r e s u l t s   a r e   r e e x a m i n e d   o r   c a n c e l e d   i t   w o u l d   a f f e c t   p r e p a r a t i o n s   f o r   a   p r e s i d e n t i a l   e l e c t i o n   a l r e a d y   b e h i n d   s c h e d u l e     w i t h   n o   a s s u r a n c e   t h a t   t h e   r e q u i r e d   f u n d i n g   i s   i n   p l a c e
O n e   l o s i n g   p a r l i a m e n t a r y   c a n d i d a t e   F a w a d   A m a n   s a i d   a n y o n e   s e a t e d   i n   P a r l i a m e n t   w o u l d   r e m a i n   u n d e r   a   c l o u d   o f   s u s p i c i o n   A n d   i f   t h e   c o m m i s s i o n e r s   w e r e   n o t   p u n i s h e d   h e   s a i d   A f g h a n s   c o u l d   l o s e   f a i t h   i n   t h e   e l e c t o r a l   p r o c e s s   a n d   r e f r a i n   f r o m   v o t i n g
I f   t h e y   a r e   j u s t   d i s m i s s e d   a n d   n o t   p r o s e c u t e d   i t   m e a n s   t h i s   i s   a   p o l i t i c a l   g a m e   s o   t h a t   t h e   p r e s i d e n t   c a n   h a v e   m o r e   i n f l u e n c e   i n   e l e c t i o n   c o m m i s s i o n s   a n d   t h e   p r e s i d e n t i a l   e l e c t i o n   M r   A m a n   s a i d
N a y i m   A y u b z a d a   h e a d   o f   t h e   T r a n s p a r e n t   E l e c t i o n   F o u n d a t i o n   f o r   A f g h a n i s t a n   a n   i n d e p e n d e n t   e l e c t i o n   m o n i t o r i n g   g r o u p   s a i d   t h a t   t h e   f i r i n g s   w e r e   m a d e   t o o   h a s t i l y   a n d   t h a t   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   h a d   p a i d   t o o   l i t t l e   a t t e n t i o n   t o   t h e   l e g a l   p r o c e s s   f o r   a d d r e s s i n g   f r a u d   a c c u s a t i o n s
W e   w o r r y   a b o u t   t h i s   d e c i s i o n   b e c a u s e   t h e   p r e s i d e n t   i s   a   c a n d i d a t e   h i m s e l f   a n d   h e   m a y   d o   a l l   t h e s e   t h i n g s   t o   t u r n   t h i n g s   i n   h i s   f a v o r   M r   A y u b z a d a   s a i d   I f   h e   d e c i d e s   s o   h a s t i l y   a b o u t   e l e c t i o n   i s s u e s   i t   w i l l   r a i s e   q u e s t i o n s   a b o u t   t h e   t r a n s p a r e n c y   o f   e l e c t i o n s
M r   G h a n i   a n d   M r   A b d u l l a h   w i l l   a p p o i n t   n e w   h e a d s   a n d   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   c o m m i s s i o n s   s e l e c t e d   f r o m   c a n d i d a t e s   p u t   f o r w a r d   b y   c i v i l   s o c i e t y   g r o u p s   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   p a r t i e s   w i t h i n   t h e   n e x t   w e e k
S u p p o r t e r s   o f   t h e   f i r i n g s   s a i d   t h e y   w e r e   n e c e s s a r y   t o   m a k e   c o m m i s s i o n e r s   a c c o u n t a b l e   f o r   b u n g l i n g   a n   e x p e n s i v e   e l e c t i o n   p r o c e s s   t h a t   w a s   s e c u r e d   b y   A f g h a n   f o r c e s   a m i d   a   r a g i n g   w a r   E a c h   A f g h a n   e l e c t i o n   b a n k r o l l e d   b y   i n t e r n a t i o n a l   d o n a t i o n s   h a s   p r o v e d   a t   l e a s t   a s   p r o b l e m a t i c   a s   t h e   l a s t
T h e   2 0 1 4   p r e s i d e n t i a l   e l e c t i o n   w a s   s o   f r a u d u l e n t   t h a t   w h e n   t h e   t w o   l e a d i n g   c a n d i d a t e s   c l a i m e d   v i c t o r y   i t   n e a r l y   t o r e   t h e   c o u n t r y   a p a r t   a n d   p r o m p t e d   W e s t e r n   o f f i c i a l s   t o   s t e p   i n   a s   m e d i a t o r s   J o h n   K e r r y   t h e n   t h e   s e c r e t a r y   o f   s t a t e   n e g o t i a t e d   a   p o w e r s h a r i n g   g o v e r n m e n t   b e t w e e n   t h e   t o p   t w o   c a n d i d a t e s   M r   G h a n i   a n d   M r   A b d u l l a h   w i t h   a   p r o m i s e   t h a t   t h e y   w o u l d   p r i o r i t i z e   e l e c t i o n   r e f o r m s   t o   a v o i d   a n o t h e r   f i a s c o
T h e   t w o   m e n   w e r e   s l o w   t o   m a k e   p r o g r e s s   o n   r e f o r m s   g i v e n   i n f i g h t i n g   i n   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   a n d   t h e   w a r   w i t h   t h e   T a l i b a n   N o w   M r   G h a n i   a n d   M r   A b d u l l a h   g e t   t o   n a m e   n e w   c o m m i s s i o n e r s   t o   o v e r s e e   a n   e l e c t i o n   d u r i n g   t h e   p e a k   o f   t h e   s u m m e r   f i g h t i n g   s e a s o n   a n d   a s   t h e   p e a c e   p r o c e s s   p l a y s   o u t
T h o s e   c h a l l e n g e s   h a v e   l e f t   m a n y   A f g h a n s   s k e p t i c a l   o f   w h a t   n e w   c o m m i s s i o n e r s   c a n   d o   M r   A y u b z a d a   t h e   e l e c t i o n   o b s e r v e r   s a i d   h e   d o u b t e d   t h e   p r e s i d e n t i a l   e l e c t i o n   w o u l d   e v e n   b e   h e l d   t h i s   y e a r   b e c a u s e   t h e   p r o c e s s   w a s   s o   o v e r s h a d o w e d   b y   o n g o i n g   p e a c e   t a l k s   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   d e a l i n g
M u j i b   M a s h a l   c o n t r i b u t e d   r e p o r t i n g   f r o m   K a n d a h a r   A f g h a n i s t a n




A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
G o o d   T u e s d a y   W a n t   t h i s   b y   e m a i l   S i g n   u p   h e r e
D e m o c r a t i c   a n d   R e p u b l i c a n   n e g o t i a t o r s   s a i d   l a s t   n i g h t   t h a t   t h e y   h a d   a n   a g r e e m e n t   i n   p r i n c i p l e   o n   b o r d e r   s e c u r i t y   f u n d i n g   t h a t   c o u l d   k e e p   t h e   f e d e r a l   g o v e r n m e n t   o p e n
T h e   d e a l   i n c l u d e s   1 3 8   b i l l i o n   t o   p a y   f o r   5 5   m i l e s   o f   n e w   f e n c i n g   t e c h n o l o g y   a n d   s t a f f i n g   f o r   b o r d e r   p r o t e c t i o n   I t s   n o t   t h e   5 7   b i l l i o n   t h a t   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   h a d   d e m a n d e d   t o   b u i l d   a   2 0 0 m i l e   w a l l   D e m o c r a t s   w a i v e d   t h e i r   d e m a n d   f o r   l i m i t s   o n   d e t e n t i o n   c a p a c i t y   f o r   i m m i g r a n t s
B u t   t h e r e s   n o   g u a r a n t e e   t h a t   i t   w i l l   g o   t h r o u g h   T h e   H o u s e   a n d   S e n a t e   w o u l d   h a v e   t o   v o t e   o n   t h e   p a c t   a n d   M r   T r u m p   w o u l d   h a v e   t o   s i g n   i t   I   t h i n k   e v e r y o n e   w i l l   s a y   G o o d   w o r k     R e p r e s e n t a t i v e   K a y   G r a n g e r   o f   T e x a s   o n e   o f   t h e   R e p u b l i c a n   n e g o t i a t o r s   s a i d   S t i l l   a t   a   r a l l y   i n   T e x a s   l a s t   n i g h t   M r   T r u m p   i n s i s t e d   t h a t   h e   w i l l   b u i l d   a   w a l l   A n d   i n f l u e n t i a l   R e p u b l i c a n   c o m m e n t a t o r s   l i k e   t h e   F o x   N e w s   h o s t   S e a n   H a n n i t y   c a l l e d   t h e   d e a l   a   g a r b a g e   c o m p r o m i s e
T h e   r e m a i n i n g   a l t e r n a t i v e s   a r e   h u g e l y   u n a t t r a c t i v e   P o l i t i c o   n o t e s   t h a t   a   p o t e n t i a l   W h i t e   H o u s e   p l a n   t o   r e d i r e c t   u n s p e n t   f e d e r a l   f u n d s   t o w a r d   t h e   w a l l   w o u l d   c r e a t e   a   f i r e s t o r m   A n d   a n o t h e r   g o v e r n m e n t   s h u t d o w n   c o u l d   h i t   t h e   U S   e c o n o m y   a n d   e n d a n g e r   a v i a t i o n   s a f e t y
T h e   B r i t i s h   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r   i s   s c h e d u l e d   t o   u p d a t e   l a w m a k e r s   l a t e r   t o d a y   o n   p r o g r e s s   i n   n e g o t i a t i o n s   o n   w i t h d r a w i n g   f r o m   t h e   E U
S h e   h a s   a   b i g   f a v o r   t o   a s k   M r s   M a y   i s   f o c u s e d   o n   m a k i n g   c h a n g e s   t o   t h e   s o c a l l e d   b a c k s t o p   i n   h e r   e x i t   d e a l   w h i c h   i s   d e s i g n e d   t o   p r e v e n t   a   h a r d   b o r d e r   b e t w e e n   I r e l a n d   a n d   N o r t h e r n   I r e l a n d   S h e   h a s   m a d e   l i t t l e   h e a d w a y   B l o o m b e r g   e x p l a i n s   h e r   p l a n   f o r   t o d a y
  M r s   M a y   w i l l   u p d a t e   P a r l i a m e n t   o n   t h e   p r o g r e s s   o f   t a l k s   w i t h   t h e   E U   a n d   o u t l i n e   a   m o t i o n   s h e l l   p u t   b e f o r e   M P s   f o r   d e b a t e   o n   T h u r s d a y   h e r   o f f i c e   s a i d
  S h e   i s   e x p e c t e d   t o   a s k   P a r l i a m e n t   t o   r e s t a t e   i t s   d e m a n d   t o   r e m o v e   t h e   b a c k s t o p   f r o m   t h e   W i t h d r a w a l   A g r e e m e n t   a n d   t o   p r o m i s e   a   f u r t h e r   v o t e   i f   s h e   h a s n t   b r o u g h t   a   r e n e g o t i a t e d   d e a l   b a c k   t o   P a r l i a m e n t   b y   F e b   2 7
  T h e   a i m   i s   t o   r e a s s u r e   m e m b e r s   f r o m   a c r o s s   t h e   H o u s e   o f   C o m m o n s   w h o   a r e   c o n c e r n e d   t h a t   M a y   i s   d e l i b e r a t e l y   r u n n i n g   d o w n   t h e   c l o c k   a n d   r i s k i n g   a   p o t e n t i a l l y   d i s a s t r o u s   n o d e a l   d i v o r c e
B u t   t h e   E U   s t i l l   i s n t   b u d g i n g   I t s   c h i e f   B r e x i t   n e g o t i a t o r   M i c h e l   B a r n i e r   s a i d   y e s t e r d a y   t h a t   s o m e t h i n g   h a s   t o   g i v e   o n   t h e   B r i t i s h   s i d e
Y e t   M r s   M a y   c o u l d   f o r c e   h e r   p l a n   t h r o u g h   P a r l i a m e n t   B l o o m b e r g   e x p l a i n s   h o w   t h o u g h   i t   a l s o   a d m i t s   t h a t   a   l o t   c o u l d   g o   w r o n g
M o r e   B r e x i t   n e w s   B r i t a i n   h a d   i t s   w e a k e s t   e c o n o m i c   g r o w t h   i n   s i x   y e a r s   l a s t   y e a r   I t   h a s   s i g n e d   a   t r a d e   d e a l   w i t h   S w i t z e r l a n d   i t s   b i g g e s t   s i n c e   t h e   2 0 1 6   B r e x i t   r e f e r e n d u m   A n d   i t s   g o v e r n m e n t   i s   b e i n g   s u e d   f o r   a w a r d i n g   a   c o n t r a c t   f o r   f r e i g h t   s h i p m e n t s   a f t e r   a   n o d e a l   B r e x i t   t o   a   f e r r y   c o m p a n y   w i t h   n o   b o a t s
T h e   f o r m e r   F e d   c h a i r m a n   r e c e n t l y   s a t   d o w n   w i t h   R a y   D a l i o   o f   B r i d g e w a t e r   C a p i t a l   f o r   a   w i d e r a n g i n g   c o n v e r s a t i o n   w i t h   t o p i c s   f r o m   t h e   s t a t e   o f   t h e   U S   t o   t h e   p r i n c i p l e s   o f   g o o d   g o v e r n m e n t   D o n t   h a v e   t i m e   t o   w a t c h   H e r e   a r e   t h e   h i g h l i g h t s
O n   W a s h i n g t o n   M r   V o l c k e r   l a m e n t e d   t h e   c o n d i t i o n   o f   t h e   U S   g o v e r n m e n t   r e p e a t i n g   p a s t   c r i t i c i s m s   Y o u v e   g o t   p r e s i d e n t s   w h o   d o n t   s e e m   t o   m i n d   e i t h e r   p e r s o n a l   b e h a v i o r   o r   m a k i n g   o u t r a g e o u s   s t a t e m e n t s   t r u e   o r   n o t   h e   t o l d   M r   D a l i o   Y o u   h a v e   a   C o n g r e s s   t h a t s   b e e n   u n a b l e   t o   f u n c t i o n   e f f e c t i v e l y
O n   t h e   C i v i l   S e r v i c e   F o r   t h e   f o r m e r   F e d   c h a i r m a n   a n   i m p o r t a n t   p r o b l e m   t o   s o l v e   n o w   i s   h o w   t o   m a k e   g o v e r n m e n t   w o r k   a g a i n   a p p e a r   t o   b e   h o n o r a b l e   P u b l i c   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n s   a   b a d   w o r d   n o w   h e   t o l d   M r   D a l i o   l e a v i n g   i m p o r t a n t   g o v e r n m e n t   d e p a r t m e n t s   w i t h o u t   e f f e c t i v e   l e a d e r s
W h a t   M r   V o l c k e r   i s   d o i n g   H e   h a s   s e t   u p   t h e   V o l c k e r   A l l i a n c e   w h i c h   i s   m e a n t   t o   h e l p   s c h o o l s   t r a i n   f u t u r e   g o v e r n m e n t   o f f i c i a l s   I t s   a   g r e a t   t r i c k   M r   V o l c k e r   s a i d   H o w   c a n   y o u   g e t   t h e   e x p e r t i s e   a n d   l e a d e r s h i p   y o u   n e e d   a n d   s t i l l   r e s p e c t   t h e   p o p u l a r   d e s i r e
O p t i m i s m   a b o u t   p e r s o n a l   f i n a n c e s   h a s n t   b e e n   t h i s   h i g h   i n   m o r e   t h a n   1 6   y e a r s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   a   s t u d y   b y   G a l l u p
S i x t y n i n e   p e r c e n t   o f   A m e r i c a n s   e x p e c t   t o   b e   b e t t e r   o f f   t h i s   t i m e   n e x t   y e a r   T h a t   i s   o n l y   t w o   p e r c e n t a g e   p o i n t s   b e l o w   t h e   a l l t i m e   h i g h   o f   7 1   p e r c e n t   r e c o r d e d   i n   M a r c h   1 9 9 8   a c c o r d i n g   t o   G a l l u p   T h a t s   i n   a   s u r v e y   c a r r i e d   o u t   b e t w e e n   J a n   2   a n d   J a n   1 0   i n   t h e   m i d d l e   o f   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   s h u t d o w n
H a l f   o f   r e s p o n d e n t s   s a y   t h e y r e   b e t t e r   o f f   t h a n   t h e y   w e r e   a   y e a r   a g o   T h a t   f i g u r e   h a d   b e e n   c o n s i s t e n t l y   u n d e r   h a l f   s i n c e   2 0 0 7   G a l l u p   s a y s
T h e   o p t i m i s m   i s   h a r d   t o   o v e r s t a t e   O n l y   1 1   t i m e s   i n   1 0 9   p o l l s   s t r e t c h i n g   b a c k   t o   1 9 7 6   h a v e   a t   l e a s t   h a l f   o f   t h o s e   p o l l e d   s a i d   t h e y   w e r e   i n   b e t t e r   f i n a n c i a l   s h a p e   t h a n   t h e y   h a d   b e e n   a   y e a r   p r i o r   G a l l u p   n o t e s   O n l y   o n c e   i n   1 1 4   p o l l s   g o i n g   b a c k   t o   1 9 7 7   h a v e   A m e r i c a n s   b e e n   m o r e   o p t i m i s t i c   a b o u t   t h e i r   p e r s o n a l   f i n a n c e s   i n   t h e   c o m i n g   y e a r   t h a n   t h e y   a r e   t o d a y
E u r o p e   i s   s l e e p w a l k i n g   i n t o   o b l i v i o n   a n d   t h e   p e o p l e   o f   E u r o p e   n e e d   t o   w a k e   u p   b e f o r e   i t   i s   t o o   l a t e   G e o r g e   S o r o s   w r i t e s   i n   a n   o p i n i o n   p i e c e   o n   P r o j e c t   S y n d i c a t e
  N e i t h e r   o u r   l e a d e r s   n o r   o r d i n a r y   c i t i z e n s   s e e m   t o   u n d e r s t a n d   t h a t   w e   a r e   e x p e r i e n c i n g   a   r e v o l u t i o n a r y   m o m e n t   t h a t   t h e   r a n g e   o f   p o s s i b i l i t i e s   i s   v e r y   b r o a d   a n d   t h a t   t h e   e v e n t u a l   o u t c o m e   i s   t h u s   h i g h l y   u n c e r t a i n
  T h e   n e x t   i n f l e c t i o n   p o i n t   w i l l   b e   t h e   e l e c t i o n s   f o r   t h e   E u r o p e a n   P a r l i a m e n t   i n   M a y   2 0 1 9   U n f o r t u n a t e l y   a n t i E u r o p e a n   f o r c e s   w i l l   e n j o y   a   c o m p e t i t i v e   a d v a n t a g e   i n   t h e   b a l l o t i n g
  T h e   f i r s t   s t e p   t o   d e f e n d i n g   E u r o p e   f r o m   i t s   e n e m i e s   b o t h   i n t e r n a l   a n d   e x t e r n a l   i s   t o   r e c o g n i z e   t h e   m a g n i t u d e   o f   t h e   t h r e a t   t h e y   p r e s e n t   T h e   s e c o n d   i s   t o   a w a k e n   t h e   s l e e p i n g   p r o E u r o p e a n   m a j o r i t y   a n d   m o b i l i z e   i t   t o   d e f e n d   t h e   v a l u e s   o n   w h i c h   t h e   E U   w a s   f o u n d e d
T h e   f i r m   s a i d   y e s t e r d a y   t h a t   i t   w o u l d   b u y   S o l i u m   C a p i t a l   w h i c h   m a n a g e s   s t o c k   p a i d   o u t   t o   c o r p o r a t e   e m p l o y e e s   f o r   9 0 0   m i l l i o n   I t s   t h e   b i g g e s t   d e a l   b y   a   m a j o r   W a l l   S t r e e t   f i r m   s i n c e   t h e   f i n a n c i a l   c r i s i s     s o   w h a t s   t h e   r a t i o n a l e
T h e   b a n k   w a n t s   i n   o n   m i l l e n n i a l   w e a l t h   S o l i u m s   c l i e n t s   i n c l u d e   s t a r t u p s   l i k e   I n s t a c a r t   a n d   S t r i p e   w h i c h   c o u l d   g o   p u b l i c   a t   m u l t i b i l l i o n d o l l a r   v a l u a t i o n s     m a k i n g   s o m e   e m p l o y e e s   v e r y   r i c h
W a l l   S t r e e t   a p p r o v e s   o f   t h e   s t r a t e g y   A n a l y s t s   a t   E v e r c o r e   I S I   w r o t e   y e s t e r d a y   t h a t   S o l i u m   g i v e s   M o r g a n   S t a n l e y   a   r e a l   p a t h   t o w a r d s   t h e   o r g a n i c   g r o w t h   a n d   n e x t   g e n e r a t i o n   o f   c l i e n t s   t h a t   m a n y   i n v e s t o r s   h a v e   b e e n   q u e s t i o n i n g   M a t t h e w   K l e i n   o f   B a r r o n s   w r o t e   l a s t   w e e k   t h a t   m i l l e n n i a l s   c o u l d   h o l d   t h e   k e y   t o   i m p r o v i n g   A m e r i c a n   p r o d u c t i v i t y     a n d   w e a l t h
A n d   b a n k s   s e e m   n e w l y   h u n g r y   f o r   d e a l s   D a y s   b e f o r e   M o r g a n   S t a n l e y s   a c q u i s i t i o n   B B T   a g r e e d   t o   b u y   S u n T r u s t   i n   t h e   b i g g e s t   b a n k   m e r g e r   s i n c e   t h e   2 0 0 8   c r i s i s   B a n k i n g   c h i e f s   s e e m   h e a r t e n e d   b y   l o o s e n e d   r e g u l a t i o n s   o n   t h e i r   s e c t o r     a n d   e a g e r   t o   c a p i t a l i z e   t h r o u g h   a c q u i s i t i o n s   W e d   l i k e   t o   d o   m o r e   J a m e s   G o r m a n   M o r g a n   S t a n l e y s   C E O   t o l d   t h e   W S J   A n d   J P M o r g a n   C h a s e   h a s   r e p o r t e d l y   c o n s i d e r e d   b u y i n g   t h e   a s s e t   m a n a g e r   W i s d o m T r e e   a c c o r d i n g   t o   B l o o m b e r g
I t s   j u s t   e i g h t   m o n t h s   u n t i l   M a r i o   D r a g h i s   f i n i s h e s   h i s   n o n r e n e w a b l e   t e r m   a s   p r e s i d e n t   o f   t h e   E u r o p e a n   C e n t r a l   B a n k   C h o o s i n g   h i s   s u c c e s s o r   i s   b o t h   i m p o r t a n t   a n d   d i f f i c u l t   t h e   W S J   r e p o r t s
  I n v e s t o r s   h a v e   t r u s t e d   M r   D r a g h i   t h e   W S J   s a y s   a s   t h e y   n a v i g a t e   a   t o x i c   m i x   o f   r i s k s   i n   E u r o p e   f r o m   B r e x i t   t o   t r a d e   w a r s
  A t   l e a s t   f i v e   u n o f f i c i a l   c a n d i d a t e s   a p p e a r   t o   b e   i n   t h e   r u n n i n g   t o   r e p l a c e   h i m   a c c o r d i n g   t o   E u r o p e a n   o f f i c i a l s   t w o   F r e n c h m e n   t w o   F i n n s   a n d   a   G e r m a n   T h e   c a n d i d a t e s   h a v e   v e r y   d i f f e r e n t   e c o n o m i c   p h i l o s o p h i e s   a n d   t h e r e   i s   n o   c l e a r   f r o n t r u n n e r
  T h e   w i n n e r   m i g h t   b e   c h o s e n   t o   b a l a n c e   t h e   n a t i o n a l i t i e s   o f   t h e   E U s   l e a d e r s h i p   r a t h e r   t h a n   p u r e l y   o n   m e r i t   T h e   W S J   q u o t e s   K a r e l   L a n n o o   c h i e f   e x e c u t i v e   o f   t h e   C e n t r e   f o r   E u r o p e a n   P o l i c y   S t u d i e s   a   B r u s s e l s   t h i n k   t a n k   o n   t h e   r i s k s   o f   t h a t   I t s   t h e   m o s t   s y s t e m i c a l l y   i m p o r t a n t   j o b   i n   E u r o p e   t h i s   m a n   c o n t r o l s   t h e   s h o w   h e   s a i d   I t   c a n   g o   b a d l y   w r o n g
W S J   r e p o r t e r s   s c o u r e d   f o u r t h q u a r t e r   r e s u l t s   f r o m   U S   c o m p a n i e s   i n   a n   a t t e m p t   t o   b e t t e r   u n d e r s t a n d   t h e   s l o w i n g   o f   C h i n a s   e c o n o m i c   g r o w t h
W h a t   t h e y   f o u n d   M a n y   c o m p a n i e s   a r e   s t r u g g l i n g   w i t h   w e a k e r   d e m a n d   f r o m   e x p o r t   m a n u f a c t u r e r s   i n   C h i n a   w h i c h   a r e   p u l l i n g   b a c k   a m i d   f e a r s   t h a t   t r a d e   t e n s i o n s   w i l l   w o r s e n   A u s t e n   H u f f o r d   a n d   T h e o   F r a n c i s   o f   t h e   W S J   r e p o r t   R e t a i l e r s   a n d   o t h e r   c o m p a n i e s   c a t e r i n g   t o   C h i n e s e   c o n s u m e r s   f a c e   s i g n s   o f   w e a k n e s s   a m o n g   t h e   c o u n t r y s   g r o w i n g   m i d d l e   c l a s s   T h e y   a r e   b u y i n g   f e w e r   c a r s   p h o n e s   a n d   a r e   t r a v e l i n g   l e s s
T h e   c o n c l u s i o n   T h e   i n d i c a t i o n s   a r e   t h a t   s l o w i n g   g r o w t h   t h e r e   i s   b r o a d   i f   s t i l l   m o d e s t   M r   H u f f o r d   a n d   M r   F r a n c i s   w r i t e
J u s t   h a l f   o f   P G E s   d i r e c t o r s   w i l l   s t a n d   f o r   r e e l e c t i o n   t h i s   y e a r   a f t e r   t h e   u t i l i t y   f i l e d   f o r   b a n k r u p t c y   a m i d   t h e   C a l i f o r n i a   w i l d f i r e s
C o l g a t e P a l m o l i v e   n a m e d   N o e l   W a l l a c e   i t s   C O O   a s     c h i e f   e x e c u t i v e   r e p l a c i n g   I a n   C o o k
G V   t h e   v e n t u r e   c a p i t a l   a r m   o f   A l p h a b e t   h i r e d   D a v i d   S c h e n k e i n   t h e   f o r m e r   C E O   o f   A g i o s   P h a r m a c e u t i c a l s   a s   i t s   c o h e a d   o f   l i f e   s c i e n c e s
A p p l e   n a m e d   F r a n k   C a s a n o v a   a   l o n g t i m e   i P h o n e   e x e c u t i v e   a s   i t s   f i r s t   h e a d   o f   m a r k e t i n g   f o r   a u g m e n t e d   r e a l i t y
S o n y   a p p o i n t e d   J i m   R y a n   a s   C E O   o f   i t s   P l a y S t a t i o n   b u s i n e s s
D e a l s
  C o l o n y   C a p i t a l   t h e   i n v e s t m e n t   f i r m   f o u n d e d   b y   t h e   r e a l   e s t a t e   m o g u l   T o m   B a r r a c k   w i l l   e x p l o r e   s e l l i n g   a s s e t s   a f t e r   a n   a c t i v i s t   h e d g e   f u n d   B l a c k w e l l s   C a p i t a l   t o o k   a   s t a k e   C o l o n y
  S o f t B a n k s   V i s i o n   F u n d   l e d   a   9 4 0   m i l l i o n   i n v e s t m e n t   i n   N u r o   a   d r i v e r l e s s   d e l i v e r y   s t a r t u p   F T
  A m a z o n   a g r e e d   t o   b u y   E e r o   w h i c h   m a k e s   w i r e l e s s   r o u t e r s   t o   a d v a n c e   i t s   s m a r t h o m e   a m b i t i o n s   R e u t e r s
  P e l o t o n   w h i c h   m a k e s   v i d e o s t r e a m i n g   s t a t i o n a r y   b i k e s   a n d   t r e a d m i l l s   i s   r e p o r t e d l y   i n t e r v i e w i n g   b a n k s   t o   p r e p a r e   f o r   a n   I P O   W S J
  D o o r D a s h   t h e   d e l i v e r y   s t a r t u p   i s   r e p o r t e d l y   i n   t h e   p r o c e s s   o f   r a i s i n g   5 0 0   m i l l i o n   a t   a   6   b i l l i o n   v a l u a t i o n   W S J
  R e d d i t   r a i s e d   1 5 0   m i l l i o n   f r o m   T e n c e n t     a n d   i t s   u s e r s   n o w   f e a r   c e n s o r s h i p   V e r g e
P o l i t i c s   a n d   p o l i c y
  P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   a n d   G o v   A n d r e w   C u o m o   o f   N e w   Y o r k   w i l l   m e e t   t o d a y   t o   d i s c u s s   r e v i s i n g   a   c a p   o n   d e d u c t i o n s   f o r   s t a t e   a n d   l o c a l   t a x e s   B l o o m b e r g
  D e m o c r a t i c   p r e s i d e n t i a l   c o n t e n d e r s   s e e   s m a l l   d o n o r s   r a t h e r   t h a n   t r a d i t i o n a l   w e a l t h y   b a c k e r s   a s   a   t e s t   o f   v i a b i l i t y   f o r   t h e   2 0 2 0   r a c e   W a P o
  C o n t r a r y   t o   p o p u l a r   b e l i e f   M r   T r u m p s   p r e s i d e n c y   h a s   h u r t   A m e r i c a s   g u n   l o b b y   N Y T   e d i t o r i a l
T r a d e
  P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   i s   r e p o r t e d l y   e a g e r   t o   m e e t   w i t h   P r e s i d e n t   X i   J i n p i n g   o f   C h i n a   t o   d i s c u s s   a   t r a d e   d e a l   B l o o m b e r g
  A m e r i c a n   t a r i f f s   o n   C h i n e s e   g o o d s   h a v e   r e d u c e d   t h e   t w o   c o u n t r i e s   t r a d e   i m b a l a n c e     w i t h o u t   h e l p i n g   U S   c o m p a n i e s   A x i o s
  C h i n e s e   i n v e s t m e n t s   i n   I s r a e l i   t e c h   c o m p a n i e s   a r e   r a i s i n g   s e c u r i t y   c o n c e r n s   W S J
T e c h
  W h a t s   i t   l i k e   t o   b e   a   c o n t r a c t o r   a t   o n e   o f   A p p l e s   l e s s   g l a m o r o u s   o f f i c e s   N o t   m u c h   f u n   B l o o m b e r g
  M a r s   O n e   V e n t u r e s   w h i c h   p r o m i s e d   o n e w a y   t r i p s   t o   t h e   r e d   p l a n e t   i s   b a n k r u p t   V e r g e
  I f   N e w   Y o r k   d o e s n t   w a n t   a   n e w   A m a z o n   c a m p u s   N e w a r k   d o e s   B l o o m b e r g
  A l p h a b e t   a n d   M i c r o s o f t   a r e   d i s c r e e t l y   w a r n i n g   t h a t   A I   c o u l d   h a r m   t h e i r   b r a n d s   W i r e d
T h e   J e f f   B e z o s   s a g a
  T h e   A m e r i c a n   M e d i a   I n c   l a w y e r   w h o   r e p o r t e d l y   s o u g h t   a   d e a l   o v e r   M r   B e z o s s   p r i v a t e   p h o t o s   w a s   o n c e   a n   A m a z o n   K i n d l e   e x e c u t i v e   W S J
  A m e r i c a n   M e d i a   r e p o r t e d l y   a s k e d   t h e   J u s t i c e   D e p a r t m e n t   w h e t h e r   i t   n e e d e d   t o   r e g i s t e r   a s   a   f o r e i g n   a g e n t   b e c a u s e   o f   i t s   t i e s   t o   S a u d i   A r a b i a   W S J
  T h e   W a P o   h a s   f o u n d   i t s e l f   i n   a   t r i c k y   s i t u a t i o n   r e p o r t i n g   o n   i t s   o w n e r s   f i g h t   w i t h   T h e   N a t i o n a l   E n q u i r e r   w h i l e   b e i n g   a   c a u s e   o f   t h e   b a t t l e   N Y T
B e s t   o f   t h e   r e s t
  C o u l d   l e v e r a g e d   l o a n s   s i n k   t h e   U S   e c o n o m y   F T
  F o r   t w o   y e a r s   G o l d m a n   S a c h s   b e t   o n   c o m p a n i e s   w i t h   s t r o n g   b a l a n c e   s h e e t s   N o t   a n y m o r e   C N B C
  T h e   h e d g e   f u n d   m a n a g e r   P a u l   T u d o r   J o n e s   s a y s   t h e r e s   a   m a n i a   f o r   s h a r e   b u y b a c k s   a n d   t h a t   h e s   w o r r i e d   a b o u t   t h e   s o c i a l   c o n s e q u e n c e s   C N B C
  T o y s   R   U s   i s   p l a n n i n g   a   c o m e b a c k   l a t e r   t h i s   y e a r   N Y T
  I s   c o r p o r a t e   A m e r i c a   h e a d e d   t o w a r d   a n   e a r n i n g s   r e c e s s i o n   D e a l B o o k
T h a n k s   f o r   r e a d i n g   W e l l   s e e   y o u   t o m o r r o w
W e d   l o v e   y o u r   f e e d b a c k   P l e a s e   e m a i l   t h o u g h t s   a n d   s u g g e s t i o n s   t o   b u s i n e s s n y t i m e s c o m
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
C h i n a   D a i l y
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S h a r e
C h i n a s   o p e n i n g u p   p o l i c i e s   h a v e   l e d   t o   i m p r o v e m e n t s   i n   l i f e   a n d   b u s i n e s s

T h e   n e w s   a n d   e d i t o r i a l   s t a f f s   o f   T h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s   h a d   n o   r o l e   i n   t h i s   p o s t s   c r e a t i o n
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
N e w   Z e a l a n d s   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r   m o v e d   s w i f t l y   t o   b a n   w e a p o n s   o f   m a s s   k i l l i n g   a f t e r   a   g u n m a n   a t t a c k e d   t w o   m o s q u e s  
B y   T h e   E d i t o r i a l   B o a r d
T h e   e d i t o r i a l   b o a r d   r e p r e s e n t s   t h e   o p i n i o n s   o f   t h e   b o a r d   i t s   e d i t o r   a n d   t h e   p u b l i s h e r   I t   i s   s e p a r a t e   f r o m   t h e   n e w s r o o m   a n d   t h e   O p E d   s e c t i o n
T h e   m u r d e r   o f   5 0   M u s l i m   w o r s h i p e r s   i n   N e w   Z e a l a n d   a l l e g e d l y   b y   a   2 8 y e a r o l d   A u s t r a l i a n   w h i t e   s u p r e m a c i s t   w i l l   b e   l o n g   s c r u t i n i z e d   f o r   t h e   w a y   v i o l e n t   h a t r e d s   a r e   s p a w n e d   a n d   s t a g e d   o n   s o c i a l   m e d i a   a n d   t h e   i n t e r n e t   B u t   n o w   t h e   w o r l d   s h o u l d   l e a r n   f r o m   t h e   w a y   J a c i n d a   A r d e r n   N e w   Z e a l a n d s   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r   h a s   r e s p o n d e d   t o   t h e   h o r r o r
A l m o s t   i m m e d i a t e l y   a f t e r   l a s t   F r i d a y s   k i l l i n g s   M s   A r d e r n   l i s t e n e d   t o   h e r   c o n s t i t u e n t s   o u t r a g e   a n d   d e c l a r e d   t h a t   w i t h i n   d a y s   h e r   g o v e r n m e n t   w o u l d   i n t r o d u c e   n e w   c o n t r o l s   o n   t h e   m i l i t a r y s t y l e   w e a p o n s   t h a t   t h e   C h r i s t c h u r c h   s h o o t e r   a n d   m a n y   o f   t h e   m a s s   k i l l e r s   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   h a v e   u s e d   o n   t h e i r   r a m p a g e s   A n d   s h e   d e l i v e r e d
O n   T h u r s d a y   M s   A r d e r n   a n n o u n c e d   a   b a n   o n   a l l   m i l i t a r y s t y l e   s e m i a u t o m a t i c   a n d   a u t o m a t i c   w e a p o n s   p a r t s   t h a t   c a n   b e   u s e d   t o   t u r n   o t h e r   r i f l e s   i n t o   s u c h   w e a p o n s   a n d   h i g h c a p a c i t y   a m m u n i t i o n   m a g a z i n e s   I t s   a b o u t   a l l   o f   u s   s h e   s a i d   i t s   i n   t h e   n a t i o n a l   i n t e r e s t   a n d   i t s   a b o u t   s a f e t y
E a r l i e r   i n   t h e   w e e k   s h e   t o l d   P a r l i a m e n t   t h a t   s o c i a l   m e d i a   s i t e s   m u s t   a d d r e s s   t h e   e a s e   w i t h   w h i c h   t h e   i n t e r n e t   c a n   b e   u s e d   t o   s p e w   h a t e   a n d   i m a g e s   o f   v i o l e n c e   W e   c a n n o t   s i m p l y   s i t   b a c k   a n d   a c c e p t   t h a t   t h e s e   p l a t f o r m s   j u s t   e x i s t   a n d   t h a t   w h a t   i s   s a i d   o n   t h e m   i s   n o t   t h e   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   o f   t h e   p l a c e   w h e r e   t h e y   a r e   p u b l i s h e d   s h e   s a i d   I t   c a n n o t   b e   a   c a s e   o f   a l l   p r o f i t   n o   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y
M s   A r d e r n   d i d n t   p r o p o s e   i m m e d i a t e   m e a s u r e s   t o   l i m i t   t h e   r e a c h   o f   F a c e b o o k   T w i t t e r   a n d   o t h e r   i n t e r n e t   p u b l i s h e r s   a n d   i t s   n o t   o b v i o u s   w h a t   c o u l d   b e   d o n e   w i t h o u t   t r a m p l i n g   f r e e d o m   o f   s p e e c h   B u t   s h e   m a d e   c l e a r   t h a t   s h e   b e l i e v e d   t h a t   t h o s e   s o c i a l   m e d i a   p l a t f o r m s   l i k e   g u n   m a n u f a c t u r e r s   a n d   d e a l e r s   b o r e   s o m e   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   f o r   t h e   c a r n a g e   v i s i t e d   o n   C h r i s t c h u r c h   a n d   s o   m a n y   c o m m u n i t i e s   i n   r e c e n t   y e a r s
T h e   n e w   g u n   p r o p o s a l   w i l l   r e q u i r e   c o n s i d e r a b l e   f i n e t u n i n g   a n d   d e f i n i n g   b e f o r e   i t   b e c o m e s   l a w   N e w   Z e a l a n d s   e x i s t i n g   l a w s   a r e   r e l a t i v e l y   l e n i e n t   a n d   a   l a r g e   p e r c e n t a g e   o f   t h e   e s t i m a t e d   1 2   m i l l i o n   t o   1 5   m i l l i o n   f i r e a r m s   o w n e d   b y   a b o u t   2 5 0 0 0 0   p e o p l e   a r e   n o t   r e g i s t e r e d   I t   i s   n o t   k n o w n   h o w   m a n y   o f   t h e s e   w i l l   b e c o m e   i l l e g a l   u n d e r   t h e   n e w   l a w s  
B u t   t h e   d i s p l a y   o f   w h a t   o n e   d e r a n g e d   m a n   c a n   d o   w i t h   w e a p o n s   d e s i g n e d   f o r   c o m b a t   s e e m e d   t o   p e r s u a d e   a   m a j o r i t y   o f   N e w   Z e a l a n d e r s   a n d   a   s t r o n g   m a j o r i t y   i n   P a r l i a m e n t   o f   t h e   n e e d   t o   b a n   r a p i d f i r i n g   w e a p o n s
T h a t   a t t i t u d e   s t o o d   i n   s t a r k   c o n t r a s t   t o   t h e   w a y   t h e   N a t i o n a l   R i f l e   A s s o c i a t i o n   a n d   i t s   p o l i t i c a l   a l l i e s   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   h a v e   r e s i s t e d   a n y   r e s t r i c t i o n s   o n   w e a p o n s   l i k e   t h e   A R 1 5   t h e   s e m i a u t o m a t i c   r i f l e   u s e d   i n   s e v e r a l   m a s s   k i l l i n g s
I n   N e w   Z e a l a n d   i t   t o o k   o n e   m a s s   s h o o t i n g   t o   a w a k e n   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   I n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   e v e n   a   s t r i n g   o f   m a s s   k i l l i n g s     2 6   d e a d   i n   a   s c h o o l   i n   N e w t o w n   C o n n   4 9   i n   a   n i g h t c l u b   i n   O r l a n d o   5 8   a t   a   c o n c e r t   i n   L a s   V e g a s   1 7   i n   a   s c h o o l   i n   P a r k l a n d   F l a     h a s   n o t   b e e n   e n o u g h   N o r   h a s   t h e   f a c t   t h a t   7 3   p e r c e n t   o f   A m e r i c a n s   s a y   t h a t   m o r e   n e e d s   t o   b e   d o n e   t o   c u r b   g u n   v i o l e n c e   a c c o r d i n g   t o   r e c e n t   p o l l i n g  
T h e   b a n   o n   t e r r o r i s t s   w e a p o n   o f   c h o i c e   w a s   o n l y   o n e   o f   t h e   a r e a s   i n   w h i c h   M s   A r d e r n   s h o w e d   w h a t   l e a d e r s h i p   l o o k s   l i k e   i n   t i m e   o f   c r i s i s   I n   l i e u   o f   t r i t e   m e s s a g e s   s h e   d o n n e d   a   b l a c k   h e a d   s c a r f   a n d   l e d   a   g r o u p   o f   p o l i t i c i a n s   t o   v i s i t   v i c t i m s   f a m i l i e s   s p e a k i n g   w i t h o u t   a   s c r i p t   t o   a   s c h o o l   s o m e   o f   t h e   v i c t i m s   a t t e n d e d   s h e   u r g e d   t h e   p u p i l s   t o   l e t   N e w   Z e a l a n d   b e   a   p l a c e   w h e r e   t h e r e   i s   n o   t o l e r a n c e   f o r   r a c i s m   E v e r   S h e   t o l d   g r i e v i n g   f a m i l i e s   W e   c a n n o t   k n o w   y o u r   g r i e f   b u t   w e   c a n   w a l k   w i t h   y o u   a t   e v e r y   s t a g e
A n d   i n   a   s t r i k i n g   g e s t u r e   s h e   r e f u s e d   t o   u t t e r   t h e   n a m e   o f   t h e   s u s p e c t e d   k i l l e r   H e   m a y   h a v e   s o u g h t   n o t o r i e t y   b u t   w e   i n   N e w   Z e a l a n d   w i l l   g i v e   h i m   n o t h i n g   s h e   s a i d   N o t   e v e n   h i s   n a m e
A f t e r   t h i s   a n d   a n y   s u c h   a t r o c i t y   t h e   w o r l d s   l e a d e r s   s h o u l d   u n i t e   i n   c l e a r l y   c o n d e m n i n g   r a c i s m   s h a r i n g   i n   t h e   g r i e f   o f   t h e   v i c t i m s   a n d   s t r i p p i n g   t h e   h a t e r s   o f   t h e i r   w e a p o n s   M s   A r d e r n   h a s   s h o w n   t h e   w a y
T h e   T i m e s   i s   c o m m i t t e d   t o   p u b l i s h i n g   a   d i v e r s i t y   o f   l e t t e r s   t o   t h e   e d i t o r   W e d   l i k e   t o   h e a r   w h a t   y o u   t h i n k   a b o u t   t h i s   o r   a n y   o f   o u r   a r t i c l e s   H e r e   a r e   s o m e   t i p s   A n d   h e r e s   o u r   e m a i l   l e t t e r s n y t i m e s c o m
F o l l o w   T h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s   O p i n i o n   s e c t i o n   o n   F a c e b o o k   T w i t t e r   N Y T o p i n i o n   a n d   I n s t a g r a m
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
C h i n a   D a i l y
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S h a r e
G e t   a   3 D   v i e w   o f   C h i n a s   g o v e r n m e n t   p l a n s   f o r   2 0 1 9

T h e   n e w s   a n d   e d i t o r i a l   s t a f f s   o f   T h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s   h a d   n o   r o l e   i n   t h i s   p o s t s   c r e a t i o n
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
T h e   j o u r n a l i s t   M a r i a   R e s s a   i s   f a c i n g   b o t h   c r i m i n a l   c h a r g e s   a n d   s o c i a l   m e d i a   t h r e a t s  
B y   K a r a   S w i s h e r
M s   S w i s h e r   c o v e r s   t e c h n o l o g y   a n d   i s   a   c o n t r i b u t i n g   o p i n i o n   w r i t e r  
H a r a s s i n g   j o u r n a l i s t s   i s   o n e   o f   R o d r i g o   D u t e r t e s   s p e c i a l t i e s   M r   D u t e r t e   t h e   s t r o n g m a n   p r e s i d e n t   o f   t h e   P h i l i p p i n e s   h a s   b e e n   g o i n g   a f t e r   M a r i a   R e s s a   a   f o r m e r   C N N   r e p o r t e r   a n d   a   f o u n d e r   o f   t h e   o n l i n e   n e w s   s i t e   R a p p l e r   f o r   t w o   y e a r s   T h e   c a m p a i g n   a g a i n s t   h e r   c o m b i n e s   c r i m i n a l   c h a r g e s   w i t h   F a c e b o o k   s m e a r s   i n t e n d e d   t o   t a r n i s h   h e r   r e p u t a t i o n   a n d   s p r e a d   l i e s   a b o u t   h e r   w o r k
L a s t   w e e k   M s   R e s s a   s p e n t   a   n i g h t   i n   j a i l   o n   a   c h a r g e   o f   c y b e r l i b e l   f o r   a   2 0 1 2   a r t i c l e   t h a t   R a p p l e r   p u b l i s h e d   a b o u t   a l l e g a t i o n s   o f   c o r r u p t   t i e s   b e t w e e n   a   b u s i n e s s m a n   a n d   a   j u d g e
W h e n   w e   s p o k e   o v e r   S k y p e   o n   T h u r s d a y   a b o u t   t h e   a t t e m p t s   t o   s i l e n c e   h e r   s h e   s a i d   I   h a v e   t o   a d j u s t   t h a t   t h i s   i s   n o r m a l   e v e n   i f   t h e r e   i s   n o t h i n g   n o r m a l   a b o u t   t h i s   S h e   a d d e d   I t   d o e s   n o t   s c a r e   m e   b u t   i t   i s   m e a n t   t o   s c a r e   e v e r y o n e   e l s e
T e c h n i c a l l y   s h e   s p e n t   t h e   n i g h t   i n   a   c o n f e r e n c e   r o o m   r a t h e r   t h a n   a   c e l l     b e c a u s e   t h e   N a t i o n a l   B u r e a u   o f   I n v e s t i g a t i o n   a g e n t s   w e r e   t r y i n g   t o   b e   n i c e   s h e   w a s   t o l d
I t   w a s   p e r h a p s   a   s m a l l   g r a c i o u s   a c t   i n   w h a t   h a s   b e e n   a   r e l e n t l e s s   a s s a u l t   o n   M s   R e s s a   a n d   R a p p l e r
K a r a   S w i s h e r   a n s w e r e d   y o u r   q u e s t i o n s   o n   T w i t t e r
R a p p l e r   h a s   b e e n   a l l   o v e r   P r e s i d e n t   D u t e r t e s   b r u t a l   r e g i m e   p u b l i s h i n g   a r t i c l e s   o n   e x t r a j u d i c i a l   k i l l i n g s   a n d   o t h e r   h u m a n   r i g h t s   a b u s e s   I n   m i d 2 0 1 7   i n   a   S t a t e   o f   t h e   U n i o n   s p e e c h   t h e   p r e s i d e n t   s t r u c k   b a c k   b y   c r i t i c i z i n g   R a p p l e r   f o r   b e i n g   o w n e d   b y   A m e r i c a n s   s o m e   o f   i t s   i n v e s t o r s   a r e   i n d e e d   f r o m   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   H e   a t t e m p t e d   t o   g e t   i t s   l i c e n s e   r e v o k e d   M s   R e s s a   w a s   t h e n   c h a r g e d   w i t h   t a x   e v a s i o n   T h e n   t h e   a r r e s t   f o r   c y b e r l i b e l   w h i c h   i s   c o n s i d e r e d   a   c r i m i n a l   a c t
W h i l e   s h e   s e e m e d   t i r e d   o f   t h e s e   l e g a l   r o a d b l o c k s   s h e   w a s   u n d a u n t e d   a n d   e v e n   f u n n y   w h e n   w e   s p o k e   I   t h i n k   I   h a v e   p a i d   m o r e   i n   b a i l   t h a n   I m e l d a   M a r c o s   s h e   s a i d   r e f e r r i n g   t o   t h e   s h o e l o v i n g   w i f e   o f   t h e   l o n g t i m e   r u l e r   o f   t h e   P h i l i p p i n e s   w h o   w e n t   d o w n   i n   i g n o m i n y
I t   w a s   m o r n i n g   i n   M a n i l a   b u t   s h e   w a s   n o t   d o i n g   a n y   j o u r n a l i s m   I n s t e a d   s h e   w a s   a d d i n g   m o r e   s e c u r i t y   t o   R a p p l e r s   o f f i c e s   t o   p r o t e c t   i t s   1 0 0   e m p l o y e e s   a n d   f o r k i n g   o v e r   m o r e   m o n e y   t o   p a y   f o r   l a w y e r s   L e g a l   f e e s   a l r e a d y   a c c o u n t   f o r   a   q u a r t e r   o f   i t s   o p e r a t i n g   b u d g e t   s h e   s a i d
S h e   i s   a l s o   c o n t e n d i n g   w i t h   t h e   r e l e n t l e s s   m a n i p u l a t i o n   o f   s o c i a l   m e d i a   b y   w h a t   s h e   s a y s   a r e   g o v e r n m e n t f r i e n d l y   s o u r c e s   t o   s p r e a d   f a l s e   i n f o r m a t i o n   a b o u t   h e r   a n d   R a p p l e r   T h e s e   t r o l l s   f o c u s   o n   F a c e b o o k   w h i c h   i s   w h e r e   m o s t   F i l i p i n o s   g e t   t h e i r   n e w s   S h e   h a s   b e e n   c a l l e d   a   f o r e i g n   a g e n t   a   t r o u b l e m a k e r   a   t a x   c h e a t   a   t r a i t o r   a n d   u g l y  
L a s t   w e e k   t w o   p e o p l e   w h o m   M s   R e s s a   s u s p e c t s   w e r e   w o r k i n g   f o r   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   m a n a g e d   t o   s l i p   i n t o   R a p p l e r s   b u i l d i n g   a n d   b r o a d c a s t   a   v i d e o   o n   F a c e b o o k   L i v e   f r o m   j u s t   o u t s i d e   i t s   d o o r   u r g i n g   p r o t e s t s   a n d   s o c i a l   m e d i a   a t t a c k s   A m o n g   t h e   c o m m e n t s   o n   t h e   f e e d   H a n g   R e s s a   B o m b   R e s s a   a n d   B e h e a d   h e r
G o v e r n m e n t   o f f i c i a l s   h a v e   s a i d   s h e   i s   e n j o y i n g   t h e   a t t e n t i o n   S h e   i s   n o t   a n d   M s   R e s s a   r e p o r t e d   t h e   v i d e o   t o   F a c e b o o k   S h e   h a d   a l r e a d y   p r o v i d e d   t h e   c o m p a n y   w i t h   c o p i o u s   e v i d e n c e   o f   t h e   w a y   i t s   p l a t f o r m   h a s   b e e n   a b u s e d   b y   M r   D u t e r t e s   t r o l l   a r m y   T h i s   t i m e   F a c e b o o k   r e s p o n d e d   b y   b l o c k i n g   t h e   u s e r   w h o   p o s t e d   t h e   v i d e o   f o r   3 0   d a y s   h e   m a y   h a v e   p o p p e d   u p   a g a i n   o n   F a c e b o o k   i n   S i n g a p o r e   t h o u g h
I t s   a   c a t a n d m o u s e   g a m e   a n d   M s   R e s s a   s a i d   F a c e b o o k   i s   h a p h a z a r d   a b o u t   e n f o r c i n g   t h e   r u l e s   W h i l e   i n d i v i d u a l   e x e c u t i v e s   h a v e   b e e n   h e l p f u l   M s   R e s s a   s a i d   s h e s   h a d   a   h a r d   t i m e   d e a l i n g   w i t h   F a c e b o o k   w h i c h   h a s   r e s p o n d e d   s l o w l y
  F a c e b o o k   i s   n o w   t h e   w o r l d s   l a r g e s t   d i s t r i b u t o r   o f   n e w s   a n d   y e t   i t   h a s   r e f u s e d   t o   b e   t h e   g a t e k e e p e r   s h e   t o l d   m e   i n   a   r e c e n t   o n s t a g e   i n t e r v i e w   A n d   w h e n   i t   d o e s   t h a t   w h e n   y o u   a l l o w   l i e s   t o   a c t u a l l y   g e t   o n   t h e   s a m e   p l a y i n g   f i e l d   a s   f a c t s   i t   t a i n t s   t h e   e n t i r e   p u b l i c   s p h e r e   A t   s o m e   p o i n t   s h e   s a i d   F a c e b o o k   h a s   t o   t a k e   d o w n   t h e   l i e s
A s   s h e   n o t e d   t o   m e   o n   T h u r s d a y   n i g h t   A   l i e   t o l d   a   m i l l i o n   t i m e s   i s   t r u t h   O n   s o c i a l   m e d i a   t h o u g h   t h a t   i s   m o r e   l i k e   a   b i l l i o n   t i m e s
M s   R e s s a   s a i d   s h e   w i s h e d   s h e   h a d   t r i e d   t o   s t o p   t h e   o n l i n e   a b u s e   s o o n e r   W e   i g n o r e d   i t   f a r   t o o   l o n g   a n d   t h a t   i s   t h e   l e s s o n   I   h a v e   l e a r n e d
S h e   s a i d   s h e   w o u l d   c o n t i n u e   t o   t r y   t o   w o r k   w i t h   F a c e b o o k   a n d   o t h e r   s o c i a l   m e d i a   o u t l e t s   L o o k i n g   a t   m y   s o c i a l   m e d i a   f e e d   i s   i m p o s s i b l e   n o w   s i n c e   I   c a n t   d e f e n d   m y s e l f   a s   I   w a t c h   m y   r e p u t a t i o n   b e i n g   d r a g g e d   d o w n   s h e   s a i d   L a t e l y   M s   R e s s a   s a i d   t h e   a t t a c k s   o n   h e r   o n   T w i t t e r   h a v e   w o r s e n e d   A n d   I   h a v e   b e e n   w e i r d l y   p u m m e l e d   o n   t h e   p l a t f o r m   b y   u s e r s   c a l l i n g   M s   R e s s a   a   c o n   a r t i s t   s i n c e   I   p o s t e d   t h a t   I   w a s   s p e a k i n g   t o   h e r
T o   t r y   t o   d e a l   w i t h   i t   a l l   M s   R e s s a   s a i d   s h e   t h i n k s   a   l o t   a b o u t   R e i n h o l d   N i e b u h r s   S e r e n i t y   P r a y e r   I   w i l l   l o o k   a t   s t u f f   i n   m y   a r e a   o f   c o n t r o l   l i k e   m a k i n g   s u r e   m y   s t a f f   i s   s a f e   a n d   w e   h a v e   a   b u s i n e s s   t o   b e   a b l e   t o   c o n t i n u e   t o   d o   w h a t   w e   a r e   d o i n g   s h e   s a i d   w i t h   a   w e a r y   s i g h   I   d o n t   w a n t   t o   b e   t h e   s t o r y
T h e   T i m e s   i s   c o m m i t t e d   t o   p u b l i s h i n g   a   d i v e r s i t y   o f   l e t t e r s   t o   t h e   e d i t o r   W e d   l i k e   t o   h e a r   w h a t   y o u   t h i n k   a b o u t   t h i s   o r   a n y   o f   o u r   a r t i c l e s   H e r e   a r e   s o m e   t i p s   A n d   h e r e s   o u r   e m a i l   l e t t e r s n y t i m e s c o m
F o l l o w   T h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s   O p i n i o n   s e c t i o n   o n   F a c e b o o k   T w i t t e r   N Y T o p i n i o n   a n d   I n s t a g r a m   a n d   s i g n   u p   f o r   t h e   O p i n i o n   T o d a y   n e w s l e t t e r  
K a r a   S w i s h e r   e d i t o r   a t   l a r g e   f o r   t h e   t e c h n o l o g y   n e w s   w e b s i t e   R e c o d e   a n d   p r o d u c e r   o f   t h e   R e c o d e   D e c o d e   p o d c a s t   a n d   C o d e   C o n f e r e n c e   i s   a   c o n t r i b u t i n g   o p i n i o n   w r i t e r     k a r a s w i s h e r     F a c e b o o k  
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   C h a r l o t t e   G r a h a m M c L a y
W E L L I N G T O N   N e w   Z e a l a n d     I n   N e w   Z e a l a n d   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   p u b l i c   a r e   a c c u s t o m e d   t o   s e e i n g   t h e i r   t o p   g o v e r n m e n t   o f f i c i a l s   a t   t h e   g r o c e r y   s t o r e   o r   o n   t h e   s t r e e t   u n e n c u m b e r e d   b y   s e c u r i t y   g u a r d s   a s   i s   m o r e   c o m m o n   i n   o t h e r   p a r t s   o f   t h e   w o r l d
T h e   c o u n t r y s   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r   J a c i n d a   A r d e r n   e v e n   j o k i n g l y   r e c o u n t e d   t o   S t e p h e n   C o l b e r t   o n   t h e   T h e   L a t e   S h o w   a b o u t   b e i n g   a p p r o a c h e d   b y   c h a t t y   s t r a n g e r s   w h i l e   s h e   s h o p p e d   f o r   m a t e r n i t y   b r a s
B u t   o n   T h u r s d a y   m o r n i n g   a   g o v e r n m e n t   m i n i s t e r   w a s   a t t a c k e d   w h i l e   w a l k i n g   t o   w o r k   a l o n e   i n   t h e   c a p i t a l   c i t y   l e a d i n g   M s   A r d e r n   t o   w a r n   t h a t   N e w   Z e a l a n d e r s   u n u s u a l   l e v e l   o f   a c c e s s   t o   t h e   c o u n t r y s   l a w m a k e r s   s h o u l d   n o t   b e   t a k e n   f o r   g r a n t e d
W e   h a v e   a n   e n v i r o n m e n t   i n   N e w   Z e a l a n d   w h e r e   p o l i t i c i a n s   a r e   a c c e s s i b l e   a n d   t h a t s   s o m e t h i n g   w e   s h o u l d   f e e l   p r o u d   o f   M s   A r d e r n   s a i d   W e   a r e   a f t e r   a l l   h e r e   t o   s e r v e   p e o p l e   B u t   t o d a y s   e v e n t s   r e a l l y   s h o w   w e   c a n n o t   t a k e   t h a t   f o r   g r a n t e d
T h e   v i c t i m   J a m e s   S h a w   4 5   a   c o l e a d e r   o f   t h e   l e f t l e a n i n g   G r e e n   P a r t y   a n d   t h e   m i n i s t e r   f o r   c l i m a t e   c h a n g e   t o l d   t h e   p o l i c e   t h a t   h e   w a s   g r a b b e d   a n d   h i t   i n   t h e   T h u r s d a y   m o r n i n g   a t t a c k   l e a v i n g   h i m   w i t h   a   b l a c k   e y e   a n d   c u t s   o n   h i s   f a c e   A f t e r   b e i n g   t r e a t e d   a t   t h e   s c e n e   h e   w e n t   o n   t o   a t t e n d   a   m e e t i n g   a t   P a r l i a m e n t   b e f o r e   a d m i t t i n g   h i m s e l f   f o r   e x a m i n a t i o n   i n   a   h o s p i t a l   w h e r e   h e   r e m a i n e d   o n   T h u r s d a y   a f t e r n o o n
P e t e   H u g g i n s   a   G r e e n   P a r t y   s p o k e s m a n   s a i d   M r   S h a w   h a d   t o l d   t h e   p o l i c e   t h a t   h i s   a s s a i l a n t   k n e w   h i s   n a m e   a l t h o u g h   o f f i c e r s   h a v e   n o t   s a i d   w h e t h e r   t h e y   b e l i e v e   t h e   a t t a c k   w a s   p l a n n e d   o r   w h a t   m o t i v a t e d   i t
T h e   e p i s o d e   r a t t l e d   N e w   Z e a l a n d   w h i c h   M r   H u g g i n s   d e s c r i b e d   a s   a   v e r y   c l o s e k n i t   c o m m u n i t y   a n d   a   v e r y   o p e n   s o c i e t y
U n l i k e   i n   m a n y   c o u n t r i e s   i n c l u d i n g   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   a n d   B r i t a i n   t h e   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r   i s   t h e   o n l y   l a w m a k e r   a c c o m p a n i e d   r o u n d t h e c l o c k   b y   s e c u r i t y   p e r s o n n e l   g o v e r n m e n t   m i n i s t e r s   a n d   o t h e r   l a w m a k e r s   a r e   n o t   R e s i d e n t s   o f   W e l l i n g t o n   N e w   Z e a l a n d s   c a p i t a l   r e g u l a r l y   s e e   e l e c t e d   o f f i c i a l s   w a l k i n g   o r   c y c l i n g   t h e   s t r e e t s   a l o n e   a n d   s o m e   p o l i t i c i a n s   o p t   t o   t a k e   p u b l i c   t r a n s p o r t a t i o n   r a t h e r   t h a n   u s i n g   g o v e r n m e n t   v e h i c l e s
I   w o u l d   h a t e   t o   s e e   t h a t   g o   M a r a m a   D a v i d s o n   a   l a w m a k e r   w h o   l e a d s   t h e   G r e e n   P a r t y   w i t h   M r   S h a w   s a i d   d u r i n g   a   n e w s   c o n f e r e n c e   T h u r s d a y
I t   w o u l d   b e   a   s h a m e   t o   l o s e   t h e   w a y   t h a t   p e o p l e   c a n   a p p r o a c h   u s   a n d   a c c e s s   u s   i n   t h i s   c o u n t r y   s h e   a d d e d   T h a t s   o n e   o f   t h e   t h i n g s   I   v a l u e   a b o u t   t h e   w a y   w e   d o   p o l i t i c s   h e r e   i n   N e w   Z e a l a n d
T h e   p o l i c e   h a v e   a r r e s t e d   a n d   c h a r g e d   a   4 7 y e a r o l d   m a n   i n   t h e   a t t a c k   o n   M r   S h a w   T h e   m a n   w h o m   t h e   p o l i c e   d i d   n o t   i d e n t i f y   w i l l   a p p e a r   i n   t h e   W e l l i n g t o n   D i s t r i c t   C o u r t   o n   F r i d a y
L a w m a k e r s   f r o m   a c r o s s   t h e   p o l i t i c a l   s p e c t r u m   j o i n e d   i n   c o n d e m n i n g   t h e   a t t a c k   W e l l i n g t o n s   m a y o r   J u s t i n   L e s t e r   w r o t e   o n   s o c i a l   m e d i a   t h a t   t h e   a s s a i l a n t s   b e h a v i o r   h a d   b e e n   o u t r a g e o u s   a n d   t h a t   N e w   Z e a l a n d e r s   w e r e   l u c k y   t o   h a v e   u n p a r a l l e l e d   a c c e s s   t o   t h e i r   e l e c t e d   r e p r e s e n t a t i v e s
M e m b e r s   o f   t h e   p u b l i c   a l s o   e x p r e s s e d   s h o c k   O n e   T w i t t e r   u s e r   b r a n d e d   t h e   a t t a c k   o n   M r   S h a w   a n   a s s a u l t   o n   d e m o c r a c y   A n o t h e r   s a i d   i t   w a s   h o p e d   t h a t   t h e   a t t a c k   w a s   a n   a w f u l   o n e   o f f   a n d   n o t   a   c a n a r y   i n   t h e   c o a l   m i n e   m o m e n t   f o r   N e w   Z e a l a n d
B r y c e   E d w a r d s   a   v e t e r a n   N e w   Z e a l a n d   p o l i t i c a l   c o m m e n t a t o r   s a i d   t h a t   d o w n t o e a r t h   q u a l i t i e s   c o m m a n d e d   r e s p e c t   f r o m   N e w   Z e a l a n d e r s   W e   l i k e   o u r   p o l i t i c i a n s   t o   b e   o n e   o f   u s   n o t   a b o v e   u s   h e   s a i d
W h i l e   i t   w a s   n o t   c l e a r   w h e t h e r   t h e   a t t a c k   w a s   p o l i t i c a l l y   m o t i v a t e d   s o m e   l a w m a k e r s   t o o k   t h e   o p p o r t u n i t y   t o   d e n o u n c e   w h a t   t h e y   s a i d   w a s   a   t r e n d   t o w a r d   o v e r t h e t o p   r e a c t i o n s   b y   p e o p l e   w h o   d i s a g r e e d   w i t h   p o l i t i c i a n s
D a v i d   P a r k e r   t h e   t r a d e   m i n i s t e r   a n d   a   l a w m a k e r   f o r   t h e   c e n t e r l e f t   L a b o u r   P a r t y   c i t e d   w h a t   h e   c a l l e d   e x t r e m e   o p i n i o n   f e e d i n g   p o l i t i c a l   b i a s e s   a n d   c a u s i n g   i n s t a b i l i t y   i n   s o m e   p e o p l e   t h a t   w a s   f e d   t h r o u g h   s o c i a l   m e d i a   p l a t f o r m s
M s   A r d e r n   s t o p p e d   s h o r t   o f   s a y i n g   t h a t   s e c u r i t y   s h o u l d   b e   b e e f e d   u p   f o r   l a w m a k e r s   T h e   e p i s o d e   t o o k   p l a c e   i n   a n   i n n e r c i t y   a r e a   o f   W e l l i n g t o n   j u s t   m i n u t e s   f r o m   M s   A r d e r n s   r e s i d e n c e
V i o l e n c e   a g a i n s t   N e w   Z e a l a n d   l a w m a k e r s   i s   r a r e   T h e   l a s t   o n e   t o   m a k e   g l o b a l   h e a d l i n e s   i n   r e c e n t   y e a r s   w a s   i n   2 0 1 6   w h e n   a   t h e n   g o v e r n m e n t   m i n i s t e r   S t e v e n   J o y c e   w a s   h i t   i n   t h e   f a c e   w i t h   a   s e x   t o y   t h r o w n   b y   a   p r o t e s t e r   a n   e p i s o d e   t h a t   c a u s e d   m o r e   m i r t h   t h a n   f u r y


A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   R a y m o n d   Z h o n g   a n d   P a u l   M o z u r
S H A N G H A I     T h e   C h i n e s e   e l e c t r o n i c s   g i a n t   H u a w e i   i s   p r e p a r i n g   t o   s u e   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   g o v e r n m e n t   f o r   b a r r i n g   f e d e r a l   a g e n c i e s   f r o m   u s i n g   t h e   c o m p a n y s   p r o d u c t s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   t w o   p e o p l e   f a m i l i a r   w i t h   t h e   m a t t e r
T h e   l a w s u i t   i s   t o   b e   f i l e d   i n   t h e   E a s t e r n   D i s t r i c t   o f   T e x a s   w h e r e   H u a w e i   h a s   i t s   A m e r i c a n   h e a d q u a r t e r s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   t h e   p e o p l e   w h o   r e q u e s t e d   a n o n y m i t y   t o   d i s c u s s   c o n f i d e n t i a l   p l a n s   T h e   c o m p a n y   p l a n s   t o   a n n o u n c e   t h e   s u i t   t h i s   w e e k
T h e   m o v e   c o u l d   b e   a i m e d   a t   f o r c i n g   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   g o v e r n m e n t   t o   m a k e   i t s   c a s e   a g a i n s t   t h e   C h i n e s e   e q u i p m e n t   m a k e r   m o r e   p u b l i c l y   I t   i s   p a r t   o f   a   b r o a d   p u s h   b y   H u a w e i   t o   d e f e n d   i t s e l f   a g a i n s t   a   c a m p a i g n   l e d   b y   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   t o   u n d e r m i n e   t h e   c o m p a n y   w h i c h   W a s h i n g t o n   s e e s   a s   a   s e c u r i t y   t h r e a t   E x e c u t i v e s   h a v e   s p o k e n   o u t   s t r o n g l y   a g a i n s t   A m e r i c a s   a c t i o n s   a n d   n e w   m a r k e t i n g   c a m p a i g n s   h a v e   b e e n   a i m e d   a t   m e n d i n g   t h e   c o m p a n y s   i m a g e   a m o n g   c o n s u m e r s
F o r   m a n y   y e a r s   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   o f f i c i a l s   h a v e   s a i d   B e i j i n g   c o u l d   u s e   H u a w e i s   t e l e c o m m u n i c a t i o n   e q u i p m e n t   t o   s p y   a n d   d i s r u p t   c o m m u n i c a t i o n   n e t w o r k s   T h e   c o m p a n y   h a s   d e n i e d   t h e   a l l e g a t i o n s   b u t   m a j o r   w i r e l e s s   c a r r i e r s   s u c h   a s   A T T   a n d   V e r i z o n   h a v e   e f f e c t i v e l y   b e e n   p r e v e n t e d   f r o m   u s i n g   H u a w e i s   e q u i p m e n t   a s   a   r e s u l t
O v e r   t h e   p a s t   y e a r   W a s h i n g t o n   h a s   r a m p e d   u p   i t s   p r e s s u r e   o n   t h e   f i r m   w h i c h   i s   p r e p a r i n g   t o   t a k e   a   m a j o r   r o l e   i n   t h e   c o n s t r u c t i o n   o f   n e x t g e n e r a t i o n   w i r e l e s s   n e t w o r k s   a r o u n d   t h e   w o r l d   A m e r i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   h a v e   u r g e d   o t h e r   g o v e r n m e n t s   t o   b a n   t h e   u s e   o f   H u a w e i s   p r o d u c t s   T h i s   y e a r   t h e   J u s t i c e   D e p a r t m e n t   f i l e d   c r i m i n a l   c h a r g e s   a g a i n s t   t h e   c o m p a n y   a n d   i t s   c h i e f   f i n a n c i a l   o f f i c e r   i n   c o n n e c t i o n   w i t h   e v a d i n g   A m e r i c a n   s a n c t i o n s   o n   I r a n
A   h e a r i n g   t h a t   i s   s e t   t o   b e g i n   t h i s   w e e k   i n   C a n a d a   w i l l   d e t e r m i n e   w h e t h e r   t h e   c o m p a n y s   f i n a n c e   c h i e f   M e n g   W a n z h o u   w i l l   b e   e x t r a d i t e d   t o   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   t o   f a c e   c h a r g e s   M s   M e n g s   l a w y e r s   h a v e   s u e d   t h e   C a n a d i a n   g o v e r n m e n t   a n d   p o l i c e   a r g u i n g   t h a t   t h e   c i r c u m s t a n c e s   o f   h e r   a r r e s t   a n d   d e t e n t i o n   i n   D e c e m b e r   v i o l a t e d   h e r   r i g h t s
M a n y   C a n a d i a n s   s e e   M s   M e n g s   c a s e   a s   a n   e x a m p l e   o f   f o r e i g n   m o n e y s   i n f l u e n c e   i n   V a n c o u v e r
T h e   c r i m i n a l   c a s e   a g a i n s t   M s   M e n g   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   c o u l d   b e   c o m p l i c a t e d   b y   c o m m e n t s   f r o m   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   a s   t h e   W h i t e   H o u s e   h a s   e n g a g e d   i n   t r a d e   n e g o t i a t i o n s   w i t h   C h i n a   W h i l e   c r i m i n a l   c a s e s   h a v e   t r a d i t i o n a l l y   b e e n   i n d e p e n d e n t   m a t t e r s   M r   T r u m p   i n d i c a t e d   t h a t   H u a w e i s   f a t e   c o u l d   b e   a   b a r g a i n i n g   c h i p
D u r i n g   a   m e e t i n g   i n   t h e   O v a l   O f f i c e   w i t h   a   d e l e g a t i o n   o f   C h i n e s e   o f f i c i a l s   l a s t   m o n t h   M r   T r u m p   s a i d   W e l l   b e   m a k i n g   t h a t   d e c i s i o n   w h e n   a s k e d   i f   h e   w o u l d   d r o p   t h e   c r i m i n a l   c h a r g e s   a g a i n s t   H u a w e i   a s   p a r t   o f   t h e   t r a d e   d e a l   H e   a d d e d   W e l l   b e   t a l k i n g   t o   t h e   a t t o r n e y   g e n e r a l
A   l a w s u i t   b y   H u a w e i   a g a i n s t   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   i s   e x p e c t e d   t o   c h a l l e n g e   a   s e c t i o n   o f   a   d e f e n s e   s p e n d i n g   a u t h o r i z a t i o n   l a w   t h a t   w a s   a p p r o v e d   l a s t   y e a r   T h e   p r o v i s i o n   b l o c k s   e x e c u t i v e   a g e n c i e s   f r o m   u s i n g   t e l e c o m   e q u i p m e n t   m a d e   b y   H u a w e i   a n d   a n o t h e r   C h i n e s e   c o m p a n y   Z T E
A c c o r d i n g   t o   o n e   o f   t h e   p e o p l e   f a m i l i a r   w i t h   t h e   m a t t e r   H u a w e i   i s   l i k e l y   t o   a r g u e   t h a t   t h e   p r o v i s i o n   i s   a   b i l l   o f   a t t a i n d e r   o r   a   l e g i s l a t i v e   a c t   t h a t   s i n g l e s   o u t   a   p e r s o n   o r   a   g r o u p   f o r   p u n i s h m e n t   w i t h o u t   t r i a l   T h e   C o n s t i t u t i o n   f o r b i d s   C o n g r e s s   t o   p a s s   s u c h   b i l l s
H u a w e i s   p l a n s   a r e   n o t   f i n a l   I t   c o u l d   s t i l l   d e c i d e   t o   c h a n g e   c o u r s e   o r   t o   n o t   f i l e   a   l a w s u i t   a t   a l l
T h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   E m b a s s y   i n   B e i j i n g   d i d   n o t   i m m e d i a t e l y   r e s p o n d   t o   a   r e q u e s t   f o r   c o m m e n t   A   c a l l   p l a c e d   o u t s i d e   b u s i n e s s   h o u r s   t o   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   C o u r t   H o u s e   i n   P l a n o   T e x   w h e r e   H u a w e i s   A m e r i c a n   h e a d q u a r t e r s   a r e   w a s   n o t   a n s w e r e d
C h i n a   a n n o u n c e d   e s p i o n a g e   a c c u s a t i o n s   a g a i n s t   a   f o r m e r   C a n a d i a n   d i p l o m a t   o n   M o n d a y   d a y s   b e f o r e   M s   M e n g s   e x t r a d i t i o n   h e a r i n g   w a s   s e t   t o   t a k e   p l a c e
I n   m a n y   w a y s   t h e   H u a w e i   c a s e   e c h o e s   t h a t   o f   a n o t h e r   c o m p a n y   t h a t   h a s   a r o u s e d   s e c u r i t y   c o n c e r n s   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   t h e   R u s s i a n   c y b e r s e c u r i t y   f i r m   K a s p e r s k y   L a b
A r o u n d   t w o   y e a r s   a g o   A m e r i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   b e g a n   e x p r e s s i n g   w o r r i e s   t h a t   M o s c o w   c o u l d   u s e   t h e   c o m p a n y s   s o f t w a r e   t o   g a t h e r   i n t e l l i g e n c e   T h e   c o m p a n y   d e n i e d   t h e   a l l e g a t i o n s   B u t   i n   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 7   t h e   D e p a r t m e n t   o f   H o m e l a n d   S e c u r i t y   d i r e c t e d   f e d e r a l   a g e n c i e s   t o   b e g i n   r e m o v i n g   t h e   c o m p a n y s   p r o d u c t s   f r o m   g o v e r n m e n t   s y s t e m s   C o n g r e s s   t h e n   c o d i f i e d   t h e   b a n   i n   a   s p e n d i n g   l a w
K a s p e r s k y   f i l e d   t w o   l a w s u i t s   i n   r e s p o n s e   a r g u i n g   t h a t   t h e   p r o h i b i t i o n   a m o u n t e d   t o   a   b i l l   o f   a t t a i n d e r   I n   M a y   a   j u d g e   i n   t h e   D i s t r i c t   o f   C o l u m b i a   d i s m i s s e d   t h e   s u i t s   r u l i n g   t h a t   C o n g r e s s   w a s   m o t i v a t e d   b y   t h e   l e g i t i m a t e   d e s i r e   t o   p r o t e c t   g o v e r n m e n t   c o m p u t e r   n e t w o r k s   a g a i n s t   R u s s i a n   i n t r u s i o n   T h e   j u d g e   a l s o   s a i d   K a s p e r s k y s   s a l e s   t o   t h e   A m e r i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t   w e r e   s u c h   a   s m a l l   f r a c t i o n   o f   t h e   c o m p a n y s   b u s i n e s s   t h a t   t h e   b a n   w a s   n o t   e s p e c i a l l y   h a r s h
A n   a p p e a l s   c o u r t   u p h e l d   t h e   r u l i n g   a   f e w   m o n t h s   l a t e r   B a n n i n g   K a s p e r s k y   w a s   a   p r o p h y l a c t i c   n o t   p u n i t i v e   m e a s u r e   t h e   j u d g e   i n   t h e   a p p e a l   D a v i d   S   T a t e l   w r o t e
G i v e n   t h e   n o t   i n s i g n i f i c a n t   p r o b a b i l i t y   t h a t   K a s p e r s k y s   p r o d u c t s   c o u l d   h a v e   c o m p r o m i s e d   f e d e r a l   s y s t e m s   a n d   t h e   m a g n i t u d e   o f   t h e   h a r m   s u c h   a n   i n t r u s i o n   c o u l d   h a v e   w r o u g h t   C o n g r e s s s   d e c i s i o n   t o   r e m o v e   K a s p e r s k y   f r o m   f e d e r a l   n e t w o r k s   r e p r e s e n t s   a   r e a s o n a b l e   a n d   b a l a n c e d   r e s p o n s e   J u d g e   T a t e l   w r o t e
R a y m o n d   Z h o n g   r e p o r t e d   f r o m   S h a n g h a i   a n d   P a u l   M o z u r   f r o m   H o n g   K o n g   A l a n   R a p p e p o r t   c o n t r i b u t e d   r e p o r t i n g   f r o m   W a s h i n g t o n
F o l l o w   R a y m o n d   Z h o n g   a n d   P a u l   M o z u r   o n   T w i t t e r   z h o n g g g   a n d   p a u l m o z u r




A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   A z a m   A h m e d   a n d   K i r k   S e m p l e
M E X I C O   C I T Y     M e x i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   a r e   c a r r y i n g   o u t   t h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n s   i m m i g r a t i o n   a g e n d a   a c r o s s   w i d e   s t r e t c h e s   o f   t h e   b o r d e r   u n d e r c u t t i n g   t h e   M e x i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t s   p r o m i s e s   t o   d e f e n d   m i g r a n t s   a n d   s u p p o r t   t h e i r   s e a r c h   f o r   a   b e t t e r   l i f e
T h e   M e x i c a n   a u t h o r i t i e s   a r e   b l o c k i n g   g r o u p s   o f   m i g r a n t s   a t   b o r d e r   t o w n s   r e f u s i n g   t o   a l l o w   t h e m   o n t o   i n t e r n a t i o n a l   b r i d g e s   t o   a p p l y   f o r   a s y l u m   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   i n t e r c e p t i n g   u n a c c o m p a n i e d   m i n o r s   b e f o r e   t h e y   c a n   r e a c h   A m e r i c a n   s o i l   a n d   h e l p i n g   t o   m a n a g e   l i s t s   o f   a s y l u m   s e e k e r s   o n   b e h a l f   o f   t h e   A m e r i c a n   a u t h o r i t i e s   t o   l i m i t   t h e   n u m b e r   o f   p e o p l e   c r o s s i n g   t h e   b o r d e r
B r e a k i n g   w i t h   d e c a d e s   o f   a s y l u m   p r a c t i c e   t h e   M e x i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t   h a s   a l s o   a l l o w e d   t h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   t o   s e n d   m o r e   t h a n   1 2 0   m e n   w o m e n   a n d   c h i l d r e n   t o   T i j u a n a   w h i l e   t h e y   a w a i t   d e c i s i o n s   o n   t h e i r   a s y l u m   a p p l i c a t i o n s   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   T h e   p r o g r a m   c o u l d   b e   e x p a n d e d   t o   o t h e r   b o r d e r   c r o s s i n g s   a s   s o o n   a s   n e x t   w e e k
O f f i c i a l s   i n s i d e   t h e   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   o f   M e x i c o s   n e w   p r e s i d e n t   A n d r é s   M a n u e l   L ó p e z   O b r a d o r   h a v e   c a l l e d   h i s   s t a n c e   o n   m i g r a n t s   a   s t r a t e g i c   d e c i s i o n   n o t   t o   a n g e r   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p
H e   d o e s n t   b e l i e v e   h e   c a n   c h a n g e   M r   T r u m p s   m i n d   t h e y   c o n t e n d   F u r t h e r m o r e   t h e   o f f i c i a l s   s a y   M r   L ó p e z   O b r a d o r   h a s   n o t   w a n t e d   t o   j e o p a r d i z e   o t h e r   a s p e c t s   o f   t h e   d e e p l y   i n t e r c o n n e c t e d   r e l a t i o n s h i p   b e t w e e n   t h e   t w o   c o u n t r i e s   r a n g i n g   f r o m   e l a b o r a t e   r e g i o n a l   t r a d i n g   a r r a n g e m e n t s   t o   i n f o r m a t i o n   s h a r i n g   o n   b o r d e r   s e c u r i t y   t r a n s n a t i o n a l   c r i m e   a n d   t e r r o r i s m   S o   h e   h a s   a v o i d e d   a   b r u i s i n g   a n d   p o t e n t i a l l y   c o s t l y   p u b l i c   f i g h t   o v e r   t h e   i s s u e
A   l i f e l o n g   d e f e n d e r   o f   t h e   p o o r   M r   L ó p e z   O b r a d o r   o f t e n   r e f e r s   t o   h i s   p l a n s   f o r   M e x i c o   a s   a   g r a n d   t r a n s f o r m a t i o n   p l a c i n g   h i s   a m b i t i o n s   f o r   t h e   n a t i o n   o n   p a r   w i t h   t h o s e   o f   i t s   g r e a t   l e a d e r s
H e   h a s   b u r n i s h e d   h i s   e v e r y m a n   c r e d e n t i a l s   b y   c u t t i n g   g o v e r n m e n t   s a l a r i e s   f l y i n g   c o a c h   a r o u n d   t h e   c o u n t r y   a n d   o p e n i n g   t h e   o p u l e n t   p r e s i d e n t i a l   p a l a c e   t o   t h e   p u b l i c   H e   h a s   a l s o   v a s t l y   r e d u c e d   t h e   n u m b e r   o f   C e n t r a l   A m e r i c a n   m i g r a n t s   M e x i c o   d e p o r t s   f r o m   i t s   s o i l
B u t   n o t   e v e r y t h i n g   h a s   t r a n s f o r m e d
E x h i b i t   A   i s   t h e   M i g r a n t   P r o t e c t i o n   P r o t o c o l s   t h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n s   p o l i c y   t o   r e q u i r e   a s y l u m   s e e k e r s   t o   r e m a i n   o n   t h e   M e x i c a n   s i d e   o f   t h e   b o r d e r   w h i l e   t h e y   a w a i t   d e c i s i o n s   o n   t h e i r   f a t e   R i g h t s   g r o u p s   c o n t e n d   t h a t   i t   d u m p s   m i g r a n t s   i n   a n   i n c r e a s i n g l y   v i o l e n t   M e x i c o   a n d   i m p a i r s   t h e i r   a c c e s s   t o   l e g a l   c o u n s e l   a n d   f a m i l y   s u p p o r t   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s
M r   L ó p e z   O b r a d o r s   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   w h i c h   c a m e   i n t o   o f f i c e   s a y i n g   i t   w o u l d   n o t   c o o p e r a t e   w i t h   M r   T r u m p s   a n t i i m m i g r a t i o n   a g e n d a   h a s   g o n e   a l o n g   w i t h   i t   o n   s e v e r a l   f r o n t s   i n c l u d i n g   a c c e p t i n g   w o m e n   a n d   c h i l d r e n   d e s p i t e   e a r l i e r   p r o m i s e s   t o   t a k e   o n l y   a d u l t   m a l e   a s y l u m   s e e k e r s
T h e   M e x i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t   a r g u e d   t h e   p o l i c y   r e q u i r i n g   a s y l u m   s e e k e r s   t o   w a i t   i n   M e x i c o   w a s   i m p o s e d   o n   t h e m   b y   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   a n d   t h e y   c o n s e n t e d   f o r   h u m a n i t a r i a n   r e a s o n s
I t   i s   a l s o   t r u e   t h a t   f o r   M r   L ó p e z   O b r a d o r   g i v i n g   i n   t o   s o m e   o f   M r   T r u m p s   b o r d e r   d e m a n d s   a n d   r a r e l y   s a y i n g   a   w o r d   a g a i n s t   t h e   A m e r i c a n   p r e s i d e n t   i n   h i s   d a i l y   p r e s s   b r i e f i n g s   c a r r i e s   l i t t l e   p o l i t i c a l   c o s t   a t   h o m e
R e a d   t h e   l a t e s t   e d i t i o n   o f   C r o s s i n g   t h e   B o r d e r   a   l i m i t e d r u n   n e w s l e t t e r   a b o u t   l i f e   w h e r e   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   a n d   M e x i c o   m e e t   S i g n   u p   h e r e   t o   r e c e i v e   t h e   n e x t   i s s u e   i n   y o u r   i n b o x
T o   m a n y   M e x i c a n s   t h e   f a t e   o f   m i g r a n t s   i s   s e c o n d a r y   t o   d o m e s t i c   c o n c e r n s   a b o u t   j o b s   s e c u r i t y   a n d   c o r r u p t i o n   M r   L ó p e z   O b r a d o r   r e t a i n s   a n   8 0   p e r c e n t   a p p r o v a l   r a t i n g   d e s p i t e   h i s   g o v e r n m e n t s   w i l l i n g n e s s   t o   t a k e   b a c k   m i g r a n t s   a p p l y i n g   f o r   a s y l u m   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s
I f   w e   h a v e   t o   a c c e p t   a   h a n d f u l   o f   p e o p l e   b a c k   i n t o   M e x i c o   t h a t s   n o t   r e a l l y   a   p r o b l e m   f o r   u s   n o t   e v e n   p o l i t i c a l l y   s a i d   o n e   o f f i c i a l   w h o   w a s   n o t   a u t h o r i z e d   t o   d i s c u s s   i n t e r n a l   d e l i b e r a t i o n s   W h a t   w e   r e a l l y   w a n t   t o   a v o i d   i s   a   p u b l i c   f i g h t   w i t h   T r u m p
B u t   i n   i t s   e f f o r t   t o   a v o i d   a   c r o s s b o r d e r   f i g h t   t h e   M e x i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t   h a s   c h o s e n   p o l i t i c s   o v e r   i t s   h u m a n i t a r i a n   i d e a l s   c r i t i c s   c o n t e n d
M e x i c o   i s   c o n t i n u i n g   t o   p l a y   t h e   r o l e   t h a t   t h e   U S   t h i n k s   i t   s h o u l d   w h i c h   i s   t o   c o n t a i n   t h e   m i g r a n t   i n f l u x   p e r i o d   s a i d   M e l i s s a   V e r t i z   H e r n á n d e z   w h o   c o o r d i n a t e s   t h e   W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   I m m i g r a t i o n   P o l i c y   a   n e t w o r k   o f   c i v i l   s o c i e t y   a n d   r i g h t s   g r o u p s   i n   M e x i c o
T h e   d e l i c a t e   b a l a n c e   w i t h   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   h a s   l e f t   t h e   M e x i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t   w i t h o u t   a   c l e a r   c o n s i s t e n t   i m m i g r a t i o n   p o l i c y   s o   M e x i c a n   s t a t e s   a n d   m u n i c i p a l i t i e s   a l o n g   t h e   b o r d e r   a r e   o f t e n   i n   t h e   p o s i t i o n   o f   f e n d i n g   f o r   t h e m s e l v e s   u n d e r   p r e s s u r e   f r o m   t h e i r   A m e r i c a n   c o u n t e r p a r t s
I n   t h e   M e x i c a n   b o r d e r   c i t y   o f   R e y n o s a   f o r   i n s t a n c e   a l m o s t   n o   o n e   i s   a l l o w e d   t o   c r o s s   t h e   b r i d g e   t o   a p p l y   f o r   a s y l u m   i n   n e i g h b o r i n g   M c A l l e n   T e x a s   T h e y   a r e   t y p i c a l l y   b l o c k e d   o r   a p p r e h e n d e d   b y   M e x i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   f o r c i n g   m i g r a n t s   t o   t r y   t h e i r   l u c k   i n   o t h e r   t o w n s
I n   t h e   c i t y   o f   P i e d r a s   N e g r a s   o f f i c i a l s   r o u n d e d   u p   h u n d r e d s   o f   m i g r a n t s   w h o   a r r i v e d   i n   a   c a r a v a n   i n   r e c e n t   w e e k s   a n d   k e p t   t h e m   u n d e r   t i g h t   w a t c h   i n   a   s h e l t e r   w i t h   l i m i t e d   a c c e s s   t o   o u t s i d e r s   a d v o c a t e s   s a y   A f t e r   a   p u b l i c   o u t c r y   t h e   c e n t e r   w a s   c l o s e d   a n d   m a n y   w e r e   b u s e d   t o   o t h e r   c i t i e s   a n d   t o w n s   a l o n g   t h e   b o r d e r
T h e   m a y o r   o f   C i u d a d   J u á r e z   m e a n w h i l e   h a s   t h r e a t e n e d   t o   s u e   a   n e i g h b o r i n g   g o v e r n o r   f o r   s h i p p i n g   m i g r a n t s   t o   h i s   t o w n   I t   h a s   b e c o m e   a   g a m e   o f   p o l i t i c a l   h o t   p o t a t o   w i t h   d e s p e r a t e   C e n t r a l   A m e r i c a n s   w h o   a r e   f l e e i n g   p o v e r t y   a n d   v i o l e n c e   c a u g h t   i n   t h e   m i d d l e
E l s e w h e r e   a l o n g   t h e   b o r d e r   s h e l t e r   o f f i c i a l s   s a y   t h e y   m a n a g e   l i s t s   o f   a s y l u m   a p p l i c a n t s   b y   n a m e   n a t i o n a l i t y   a g e   a n d   d o c u m e n t a t i o n   t o   a s s i s t   M e x i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   w h o   a r e   c o m p l y i n g   w i t h   A m e r i c a n   b o r d e r   p a t r o l   m a n d a t e s
T h e   M e x i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t   i s   r e s i s t i n g   M r   T r u m p   i n   s o m e   w a y s   t h e   o f f i c i a l   i n   M r   L ó p e z   O b r a d o r s   g o v e r n m e n t   i n s i s t e d   E v e n   a c q u i e s c i n g   t o   t h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   o n   t h e   M i g r a n t   P r o t e c t i o n   P r o t o c o l s   w a s   d o n e   s t r a t e g i c a l l y   a c c o r d i n g   t o   t h e   o f f i c i a l   a n d   t w o   o t h e r s   b r i e f e d   o n   t h e   p l a n
B y   a l l o w i n g   t h e   p r o g r a m   t o   s t a r t   i n   S a n   D i e g o   a n d   T i j u a n a   t h e   M e x i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   a r g u e d   l e g a l   c h a l l e n g e s   t o   i t   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   g o   t o   t h e   f e d e r a l   c o u r t s   i n   t h e   N o r t h e r n   D i s t r i c t   o f   C a l i f o r n i a   w h i c h   a r e   g e n e r a l l y   s e e n   a s   l i b e r a l   T h i s   m a t t e r s   a t   a   t i m e   w h e n   m a n y   A m e r i c a n s   a r e   f o c u s e d   o n   h o w   t o   b e a t   M r   T r u m p   i n   t h e   2 0 2 0   e l e c t i o n s   i n   p a r t i c u l a r   b y   l e v e r a g i n g   t h e   M e x i c a n A m e r i c a n   v o t e
B u t   m a n y   a c t i v i s t s   a r e   f a r   f r o m   c o n f i d e n t   t h a t   a   l e g a l   c h a l l e n g e   w i l l   p u t   a n   e n d   t o   t h e   p r o g r a m
I   t h i n k   i t s   a n   i n c r e d i b l y   r i s k y   m o v e   s a i d   S t e p h a n i e   L e u t e r t   t h e   d i r e c t o r   o f   t h e   M e x i c o   S e c u r i t y   I n i t i a t i v e   a t   t h e   U n i v e r s i t y   o f   T e x a s   a t   A u s t i n   I   d o n t   t h i n k   y o u   s h o u l d   p u t   y o u r   c o u n t r y s   f o r e i g n   a n d   m i g r a t o r y   p o l i c y   i n   t h e   h a n d s   o f   a   c i v i l   s o c i e t y   o r g a n i z a t i o n   i n   a n o t h e r   c o u n t r y
O n   F e b   1 4   t h a t   c i v i l   s o c i e t y   o r g a n i z a t i o n   t h e   A m e r i c a n   C i v i l   L i b e r t i e s   U n i o n   a n d   s e v e r a l   o t h e r   a d v o c a c y   g r o u p s   f i l e d   a   l a w s u i t   c h a l l e n g i n g   t h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n s   p o l i c y   A   d e c i s i o n   o n   a   t e m p o r a r y   r e s t r a i n i n g   o r d e r   i s   e x p e c t e d   i n   t h e   c o m i n g   d a y s
T h e   l a w s u i t   f i l e d   o n   b e h a l f   o f   1 1   a s y l u m   s e e k e r s   w h o   w e r e   r e t u r n e d   t o   M e x i c o   i n   r e c e n t   w e e k s   a c c u s e s   t h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   o f   v i o l a t i n g   f e d e r a l   a n d   i n t e r n a t i o n a l   m i g r a t i o n   a n d   h u m a n   r i g h t s   l a w s
A d v o c a t e s   c o n t e n d   t h a t   b y   f o r c i b l y   s e n d i n g   a s y l u m   s e e k e r s   t o   T i j u a n a   t h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   h a s   p l u n g e d   t h e m   i n t o   a n   u n f a m i l i a r   a n d   d a n g e r o u s   e n v i r o n m e n t   w h e r e   t h e i r   l i v e s   m a y   b e   i n   j e o p a r d y
K i l l i n g s   i n   T i j u a n a   h a v e   s k y r o c k e t e d   i n   r e c e n t   y e a r s   b e c a u s e   o f   a   t u r f   w a r   i n   t h e   l o c a l   d r u g   m a r k e t   I n   2 0 1 8   t h e   c i t y   p o s t e d   i t s   d e a d l i e s t   y e a r   o n   r e c o r d   w i t h   m o r e   t h a n   2 5 0 0   k i l l i n g s
T h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   f i r s t   a n n o u n c e d   t h e   n e w   p o l i c y   i n   D e c e m b e r   a n d   o n   J a n   2 8   t h e   h e a d   o f   M e x i c o s   m i g r a t i o n   a g e n c y   s a i d   t h e   M e x i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t   h a d   i m p o s e d   r e s t r i c t i o n s   o n   i t s   e n a c t m e n t
B u t   M e x i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   h a v e   b a c k e d   d o w n   f r o m   m a n y   o f   t h o s e   i n i t i a l   r e s t r i c t i o n s   i n c l u d i n g   i t s   r e f u s a l   t o   a c c e p t   w o m e n   w i t h   c h i l d r e n   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   o f f i c i a l s   h a v e   s a i d   t h e y   p l a n   t o   e x p a n d   t h e   p r o g r a m   t o   o t h e r   p o r t s   o f   e n t r y   a l o n g   t h e   b o r d e r   T h e   L ó p e z   O b r a d o r   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   h a s   s a i d   l i t t l e   p u b l i c l y   a b o u t   t h e   c h a n g e s
I n   T i j u a n a   s e v e r a l   o f   t h e   r e t u r n e e s     t h r e e   s i n g l e   m e n   a   s i n g l e   w o m a n   a n d   t w o   m o t h e r s   e a c h   t r a v e l i n g   w i t h   t h r e e   c h i l d r e n     d e s c r i b e d   t h e i r   c o n f u s i o n   a n d   d i s m a y   a t   f i n d i n g   t h e m s e l v e s   i n   M e x i c o   o n c e   a g a i n
I   h a v e   n o   i d e a   h o w   I m   g o i n g   t o   s u r v i v e   s a i d   Y a n i r a   a   3 4 y e a r o l d   m i g r a n t   f r o m   E l   S a l v a d o r   w h o   f e a r e d   b e i n g   p u r s u e d   b y   t h e   p e o p l e   s h e   s a i d   s h e   w a s   f l e e i n g   i n   h e r   h o m e   c o u n t r y
Y a n i r a   s a i d   s h e   l e f t   E l   S a l v a d o r   w i t h   h e r   t h r e e   c h i l d r e n     a g e s   8   1 1   a n d   1 2     a f t e r   a   l o c a l   g a n g   t r i e d   t o   r e c r u i t   h e r   m i d d l e   c h i l d   a n d   t h r e a t e n e d   v i o l e n c e   u n l e s s   h e   a g r e e d
W h e n   s h e   s t e p p e d   o n t o   M e x i c a n   s o i l   a g a i n   a f t e r   b e i n g   l e d   b a c k   a c r o s s   t h e   b o r d e r   b y   A m e r i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   s h e   b r o k e   d o w n
I   c r i e d   a n d   c r i e d   s h e   r e c a l l e d
M e x i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   h a v e   s a i d   t h e y   c a n n o t   p r o v i d e   s h e l t e r   a n d   c a r e   f o r   t h e   r e t u r n e e s   e s s e n t i a l l y   l e a v i n g   t h e m   t o   a   n e t w o r k   o f   c o m m u n i t y   g r o u p s   i n   T i j u a n a   a n d   e l s e w h e r e   i n   t h e   s t a t e   o f   B a j a   C a l i f o r n i a
B u t   t h e   s h e l t e r   n e t w o r k   h a s   b e e n   u n d e r   e x t r a o r d i n a r y   p r e s s u r e   f r o m   t h e   a l m o s t c o n t i n u a l   a r r i v a l   o f   m i g r a n t s   t r a v e l i n g   i n   c a r a v a n s   w h o   h a v e   p u s h e d   t h e   c e n t e r s   b e y o n d   c a p a c i t y
S i s t e r   S a l o m é   L i m a s   a   s o c i a l   w o r k e r   a t   t h e   I n s t i t u t o   M a d r e   A s u n t a   m i g r a n t   s h e l t e r   i n   T i j u a n a   s a i d   i t   i s   c u r r e n t l y   h o u s i n g   a b o u t   1 2 0   w o m e n   a n d   c h i l d r e n     i n   a   s p a c e   d e s i g n e d   f o r   4 4
A m o n g   t h e   m i g r a n t s   a r e   s e v e r a l   f a m i l i e s   w h o   a r e   s e e k i n g   a s y l u m   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   a n d   w e r e   r e t u r n e d   i n   r e c e n t   w e e k s   u n d e r   t h e   T r u m p   p o l i c y
S i s t e r   S a l o m é   s a i d   t h e   s h e l t e r   c a n   h o u s e   t h e   f a m i l i e s   u n t i l   t h e i r   f i r s t   c o u r t   d a t e   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   i n   l a t e   M a r c h   A f t e r   t h a t   s h e   i s   n o t   s u r e
W h a t s   g o i n g   t o   h a p p e n   t o   t h e m   s h e   s a i d   W e   d o n t   k n o w
P a u l i n a   V i l l e g a s   c o n t r i b u t e d   r e p o r t i n g   f r o m   M e x i c o   C i t y
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
G o o d   M o n d a y   W a n t   t h i s   b y   e m a i l   S i g n   u p   h e r e
I n   t h e   w a k e   o f   t w o   f a t a l   c r a s h e s   i n v o l v i n g   i t s   7 3 7   M a x   8   a i r p l a n e   t h a t   s h a r e d   s i m i l a r i t i e s   B o e i n g   f i n d s   i t s e l f   w i t h   p r o s e c u t o r s   a n d   r e g u l a t o r s   i n s p e c t i n g   i t s   d e v e l o p m e n t   p r o c e s s e s   a n d   s a f e t y   a s s e s s m e n t s
  A   g r a n d   j u r y   i n   W a s h i n g t o n   D C   i s s u e d   a   s u b p o e n a   d a t e d   M a r c h   1 1     t h e   d a y   a f t e r   t h e   E t h i o p i a n   A i r l i n e s   c r a s h     s e e k i n g   d o c u m e n t s   f r o m   a t   l e a s t   o n e   p e r s o n   i n v o l v e d   i n   t h e   d e v e l o p m e n t   o f   t h e   7 3 7   M a x   j e t s   t h e   W S J   r e p o r t s
  T h e   T r a n s p o r t a t i o n   D e p a r t m e n t   i n s p e c t o r   g e n e r a l s   o f f i c e   w a s   a l s o   r e p o r t e d l y   e x a m i n i n g   t h e   p l a n e s   d e s i g n   c e r t i f i c a t i o n   b e f o r e   t h e   s e c o n d   d e a d l y   c r a s h
  A n   i n v e s t i g a t i o n   b y   T h e   S e a t t l e   T i m e s   f o u n d   t h a t   t h e   F A A   d e l e g a t e d   w i d e   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   f o r   t h e   7 3 7   M a x   s a f e t y   a s s e s s m e n t   t o   B o e i n g   i t s e l f   T h e   r e s u l t i n g   a n a l y s i s   i n c l u d e d   c r u c i a l   f l a w s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   t h e   i n v e s t i g a t i o n
  A n d   B l o o m b e r g   r e p o r t s   t h a t   a s   e a r l y   a s   s e v e n   y e a r s   a g o   F A A   e m p l o y e e s   w a r n e d   t h a t   B o e i n g   h a d   t o o   m u c h   s w a y   o v e r   s a f e t y   a p p r o v a l s   o f   n e w   a i r c r a f t
B o e i n g   s a i d   i n   a   s t a t e m e n t   o n   S u n d a y   t h a t   a i r c r a f t   c e r t i f i c a t i o n   p r o c e s s e s   a r e   w e l l   e s t a b l i s h e d   a n d   h a v e   c o n s i s t e n t l y   p r o d u c e d   s a f e   a i r c r a f t   d e s i g n s   I t   a d d e d   t h a t   t h e   7 3 7   M a x   c e r t i f i c a t i o n   p r o g r a m   f o l l o w e d   t h e   F A A s   s t a n d a r d   c e r t i f i c a t i o n   p r o c e s s
T h e   r i d e h a i l i n g   c o m p a n y   w i l l   s t a r t   t h e   r o a d   s h o w   f o r   i t s   I P O   t o d a y   i n   N e w   Y o r k   C i t y   I t   w o n t   b e   s h o r t   o n   a m b i t i o n   L y f t   h o p e s   t o   a c h i e v e   a   v a l u a t i o n   o f   a s   m u c h   a s   2 3   b i l l i o n
I n   i t s   u p d a t e d   p r o s p e c t u s   L y f t   s a i d   t h a t   i t   h o p e s   t o   r a i s e   n e a r l y   2 4   b i l l i o n   f r o m   i t s   I P O   T h a t   f i g u r e   i s   c l o s e   t o   t h e   2 1 6   b i l l i o n   i n   r e v e n u e   t h a t   i t   g e n e r a t e d   l a s t   y e a r
A t   t h e   h i g h   e n d   o f   i t s   p r o p o s e d   s t o c k   p r i c e   6 8   t h e   c o m p a n y   w o u l d   b e   v a l u e d   a t   2 3   b i l l i o n   T h a t   w o u l d   m a k e   t h e   s t a k e s   h e l d   b y   e a c h   o f   t h e   c o m p a n y s   f o u n d e r s   L o g a n   G r e e n   a n d   J o h n   Z i m m e r   w o r t h   h u n d r e d s   o f   m i l l i o n s   o f   d o l l a r s   a p i e c e   T h e   c o m p a n y   i s   e x p e c t e d   t o   p r i c e   i t s   o f f e r i n g   o n   M a r c h   2 8   a n d   w o u l d   t h e n   t r a d e   o n   t h e   N a s d a q   t h e   n e x t   d a y
L y f t   i s   p o i s e d   t o   b e c o m e   o n e   o f   t h e   b i g g e s t   m a r k e t   d e b u t s   b y   a   t e c h   c o m p a n y   s i n c e   t h e   A l i b a b a   G r o u p s   I P O   i n   2 0 1 4   U n t i l   U b e r   g o e s   p u b l i c   l a t e r   t h i s   y e a r   a t   l e a s t
B u t   t h e   I P O   i s   n o t   w i t h o u t   c o n t r o v e r s y   I t s   f a c i n g   b a c k l a s h   f r o m   i n v e s t o r s   w h o   a r e n t   h a p p y   a b o u t   a   d u a l c l a s s   s t o c k   s t r u c t u r e   P a u l   S i n g e r   t h e   h e a d   o f   t h e   a c t i v i s t   h e d g e   f u n d   E l l i o t t   M a n a g e m e n t   i s   o n e   o f   t h e m   w r i t i n g   i n   a n   F T   o p e d
T h o s e   w i t h   t h e   i n s i g h t   a n d   d a r i n g   t o   f o u n d   a   b u s i n e s s   d e s e r v e   o u r   r e s p e c t   B u t   o n c e   t h e y   s e l l   t h e   v a s t   m a j o r i t y   o f   t h e   c o m p a n y   t o   t h e   p u b l i c   t h e y   s h o u l d   n o t   b e   a l l o w e d   t o   r u n   i t   f o r e v e r   w i t h o u t   a n y   s h a r e h o l d e r   i n p u t   P u b l i c   o w n e r s h i p   m u s t   m e a n   p u b l i c   a c c o u n t a b i l i t y
T h e   t w o   G e r m a n   l e n d e r s   a n n o u n c e d   y e s t e r d a y   t h a t   t h e y   w i l l   f o r m a l l y   b e g i n   m e r g e r   t a l k s   N o w   t h e y   m u s t   c o n v i n c e   c r i t i c s   t h a t   c o m b i n i n g   i s   a   g o o d   t h i n g
D e u t s c h e   B a n k   s a i d   i t   w a s   r e v i e w i n g   s t r a t e g i c   o p t i o n s   f o r   s h o r i n g   u p   i t s   p r o f i t a b i l i t y   a n d   g r o w t h   C h r i s t i a n   S e w i n g   t h e   f i r m s   C E O   t o l d   e m p l o y e e s   I   h a v e   c o n s i s t e n t l y   s t r e s s e d   t h a t   c o n s o l i d a t i o n   i n   t h e   G e r m a n   a n d   E u r o p e a n   b a n k i n g   s e c t o r   i s   a n   i m p o r t a n t   t o p i c   f o r   u s
T h e   c o m b i n e d   b a n k   w o u l d   b e   o n e   o f   E u r o p e s   b i g g e s t   w i t h   2   t r i l l i o n   i n   a s s e t s   a n d   a b o u t   o n e f i f t h   o f   a l l   p r i v a t e   c u s t o m e r s   i n   G e r m a n y
G o i n g   p u b l i c   s i g n a l s   t h a t   t h e   d e a l   h a s   p o l i t i c a l   b a c k i n g   G e r m a n y s   f i n a n c e   m i n i s t e r   h a s   a r g u e d   t h a t   t h e   c o u n t r y   n e e d s   a   s t r o n g   n a t i o n a l   c h a m p i o n   t o   c o m p e t e   a g a i n s t   f o r e i g n   b a n k s   H e r e   i s   t h e   F T s   l i s t   o f   t h e   k e y   d e c i s i o n m a k e r s   f o r   a n y   d e a l
B u t   o p p o s i t i o n   t o   a   m e r g e r   i s   s t r o n g   G e r m a n   u n i o n s   h a v e   c r i t i c i z e d   t h e   p l a n   f e a r i n g   t e n s   o f   t h o u s a n d s   o f   j o b   c u t s   A n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   o f   B l o o m b e r g   O p i n i o n   w a r n s   t h a t   i t   w o u l d n t   f i x   t h e   b i g g e r   p r o b l e m s   i n   t h e   G e r m a n   b a n k i n g   s y s t e m
T h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n s   c a m p a i g n   t o   p r e v e n t   c o u n t r i e s   f r o m   u s i n g   H u a w e i   e q u i p m e n t   i n   t h e i r   5 G   w i r e l e s s   n e t w o r k s   h a s   f a l t e r e d   J u l i a n   E   B a r n e s   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   o f   t h e   N Y T   w r i t e
A m e r i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   h a v e   b e e n   p r e s s u r i n g   a n d   t h r e a t e n i n g   o t h e r   n a t i o n s   t o   s h u n   H u a w e i   T h e   p u s h   i s   r o o t e d   i n   U S   c o n c e r n s   t h a t   C h i n e s e   t e l e c o m   c o m p a n i e s   a r e   a   s i g n i f i c a n t   s e c u r i t y   t h r e a t   a n d   c o u l d   h e l p   B e i j i n g   s p y   o n   o t h e r   n a t i o n s
B u t   i t s   n o t   r e a l l y   w o r k i n g   B r i t a i n   G e r m a n y   I n d i a   a n d   t h e   U n i t e d   A r a b   E m i r a t e s   h a v e   a l l   s i g n a l e d   t h a t   t h e y   a r e   u n l i k e l y   t o   f o l l o w   A m e r i c a s   l e a d
T h e   U S   c a m p a i g n   h a s   b e e n   c r i t i c i z e d   f o r   a   l a c k   o f   e v i d e n c e   A m e r i c a n   i n t e l l i g e n c e   b r i e f i n g s   h a v e   r e p o r t e d l y   f a i l e d   t o   c l e a r l y   s h o w   h o w   t h e   C h i n e s e   g o v e r n m e n t   h a s   u s e d   H u a w e i   t o   s t e a l   i n f o r m a t i o n   R e a d   w h a t   f i v e   e x p e r t s   a n d   t w o   s e n a t o r s   h a v e   t o   s a y   a b o u t   w h e t h e r   i t   i s   a   t h r e a t   S o m e   E u r o p e a n   a n d   A s i a n   o f f i c i a l s   a l s o   b e l i e v e   t h a t   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   m a y   n o t   f u l l y   s u p p o r t   t h e   f i g h t
A m e r i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   w a n t   t o   f i n d   o t h e r   w a y s   t o   c u r b   H u a w e i s   r i s e   M r   B a r n e s   a n d   M r   S a t a r i a n o   w r i t e   i n c l u d i n g   p o s s i b l y   r e s t r i c t i n g   A m e r i c a n   c o m p a n i e s   f r o m   s u p p l y i n g   H u a w e i   w i t h   k e y   c o m p o n e n t s   t h a t   i t   n e e d s   t o   b u i l d   5 G   n e t w o r k s   a c r o s s   t h e   w o r l d
M o r e   H u a w e i   h a s   b u i l t   i t s   o w n   o p e r a t i n g   s y s t e m   f o r   s m a r t p h o n e s   a n d   c o m p u t e r s   t o   b e   u s e d   i f   t h e   c o m p a n y   c a n   n o   l o n g e r   u s e   s o f t w a r e   d e v e l o p e d   b y   G o o g l e   a n d   M i c r o s o f t
T h e   f i n a n c i a l   s e c t o r   h a s n t   f e l t   t h e   i m p a c t   o f   M e T o o   a s   m u c h   a s   o t h e r   i n d u s t r i e s   B u t   a s   D a v i d   G e l l e s   o f   t h e   N Y T   r e p o r t s   a   l a w s u i t   a g a i n s t   t h e   a s s e t   m a n a g e r   T C W   c o u l d   c h a n g e   t h a t
  S a r a   T i r s c h w e l l   w h o   c r e a t e d   a   d i s t r e s s e d d e b t   f u n d   a t   T C W   b u t   w a s   f i r e d   i n   2 0 1 7   h a s   s u e d   t h e   f i r m   h e r   f o r m e r   b o s s   J e s s   R a v i c h   a n d   t h e   C E O   D a v i d   L i p p m a n   S h e   c l a i m e d   t h a t   h e r   d i s m i s s a l   w a s   r e t a l i a t i o n   a g a i n s t   h e r   f o r   r e p o r t i n g   a   s e x u a l   h a r a s s m e n t   c l a i m   a g a i n s t   M r   R a v i c h   g e n d e r   d i s c r i m i n a t i o n   a n d   a   b r e a c h   o f   c o n t r a c t
  M s   T i r s c h w e l l   a l l e g e s   t h a t   M r   R a v i c h   p r e s s u r e d   h e r   i n t o   s e x   s e v e r a l   t i m e s   d u r i n g   h e r   t e n u r e   w i t h   t h e   f i r m   T h e   f i r s t   e n c o u n t e r   m a d e   h e r   f e e l   a c c o r d i n g   t o   h e r   l a w s u i t   a s   i f   r e j e c t i o n   w o u l d   m e a n   t h e   e n d   o f   R a v i c h s   c r u c i a l   s u p p o r t
  T C W   M r   R a v i c h   a n d   M r   L i p p m a n   d e n i e d   t h e   a l l e g a t i o n s   I   w a s   S a r a s   b i g g e s t   s u p p o r t e r   a t   T C W   a n d   h a d   n o   r o l e   i n   t h e   d e c i s i o n   t o   f i r e   h e r   M r   R a v i c h   s a i d
  S o   f a r   t h e r e s   b e e n   n o   t a l k   o f   a   s e t t l e m e n t   M r   G e l l e s   w r i t e s   D a y s   i n   c o u r t   h a v e   b e e n   r a r e   f o r   t h e   m o v e m e n t     a n d   r a r e r   s t i l l   f o r   W a l l   S t r e e t   w h e r e   g r i e v a n c e s   a r e   t y p i c a l l y   d e a l t   w i t h   i n   p r i v a t e   a n d   b y   w i r e   t r a n s f e r   w h e n   t h e y   a r e   d e a l t   w i t h   a t   a l l
D e s p i t e   d e l i v e r i n g   d i s a p p o i n t i n g   r e t u r n s   t o   i n v e s t o r s   m a n y   C E O s   s a w   t h e i r   c o m p e n s a t i o n   c l i m b   l a s t   y e a r   a c c o r d i n g   t o   t h e   W S J
  M e d i a n   c o m p e n s a t i o n   f o r   1 3 2   c h i e f   e x e c u t i v e s   o f   S P   5 0 0   c o m p a n i e s   r e a c h e d   1 2 4   m i l l i o n   i n   2 0 1 8   u p   f r o m   1 1 7   m i l l i o n   f o r   t h e   s a m e   g r o u p   i n   2 0 1 7   t h e   W S J   c a l c u l a t e s
  M o s t   o f   t h e s e   C E O s   r e c e i v e d   s u b s t a n t i a l   r a i s e s     t h e   m e d i a n   w a s   6 4   p e r c e n t     e v e n   t h o u g h   t h e   D e c e m b e r   s t o c k m a r k e t   s w o o n   m e a n t   m o s t   o f   t h e   c o m p a n i e s   f i n i s h e d   o u t   t h e   y e a r   p o s t i n g   s l u g g i s h   s h a r e h o l d e r   r e t u r n s
  M a r k e t s   d i d   p r e t t y   w e l l   c o m p a n i e s   d i d   w e l l   a n d   t h e   e c o n o m y   h e l d   u p   R o b i n   F e r r a c o n e   a n   e x e c u t i v e p a y   c o n s u l t a n t   t o l d   t h e   W S J
  B u t   s h e   a l s o   s a i d   t h a t   b o a r d s   m a y   h a v e   b e e n   t h i n k i n g   f o r w a r d   t o   a n   e c o n o m i c   s l o w d o w n   a d d i n g   T h e y   k n o w   t h e y r e   g o i n g   t o   h a v e   t o   b r i n g   i t   d o w n   w h e n   t h e   b l o o m s   o f f   t h e   r o s e
T h e   s h o o t i n g   a t   a   m o s q u e   i n   C h r i s t c h u r c h   N e w   Z e a l a n d   w a s   d e s i g n e d   t o   g o   v i r a l   o n   t h e   i n t e r n e t   W h a t   c a n   w e   d o   a b o u t   i t
T h e   a t t a c k   w a s   t e a s e d   o n   T w i t t e r   a n n o u n c e d   o n   t h e   o n l i n e   m e s s a g e   b o a r d   8 c h a n   a n d   b r o a d c a s t   l i v e   o n   F a c e b o o k   K e v i n   R o o s e   o f   t h e   N Y T   w r i t e s   T h e   f o o t a g e   w a s   t h e n   r e p l a y e d   e n d l e s s l y   o n   Y o u T u b e   T w i t t e r   a n d   R e d d i t   a s   t h e   p l a t f o r m s   s c r a m b l e d   t o   t a k e   d o w n   t h e   c l i p s   n e a r l y   a s   f a s t   a s   n e w   c o p i e s   p o p p e d   u p   t o   r e p l a c e   t h e m
O n l i n e   e x t r e m i s m   i s   j u s t   r e g u l a r   e x t r e m i s m   o n   s t e r o i d s   T h e r e   i s   n o   o f f l i n e   e q u i v a l e n t   o f   t h e   e x p e r i e n c e   o f   b e i n g   a l g o r i t h m i c a l l y   n u d g e d   t o w a r d   a   m o r e   s t r i d e n t   v e r s i o n   o f   y o u r   e x i s t i n g   b e l i e f s   M r   R o o s e   a d d s   P e o p l e   b e c o m e   f l u e n t   i n   t h e   c u l t u r e   o f   o n l i n e   e x t r e m i s m   t h e y   m a k e   a n d   c o n s u m e   e d g y   m e m e s   t h e y   c l u s t e r   a n d   h a r d e n   A n d   o n c e   i n   a   w h i l e   o n e   o f   t h e m   e r u p t s
B u t   t e l l i n g   t e r r o r i s t s   f r o m   t r o l l s   i s n t   e a s y   f o r   t e c h   c o m p a n i e s   C h r i s t o p h e r   M i m s   o f   t h e   W S J   a r g u e s   K n o w i n g   w h i c h   o n l i n e   e x t r e m i s t s   w i l l   e r u p t   w i t h   a n   a c t   o f   v i o l e n c e   c a n   b e   v i r t u a l l y   i m p o s s i b l e   a n d   t h e i r   b r o a d c a s t s   o f   s u d d e n   a c t s   o f   v i o l e n c e   c a n   b e   h a r d   t o   a u t o m a t i c a l l y   b l o c k
M o r e   n e e d s   t o   b e   d o n e   W e   n e e d   t o   u n d e r s t a n d   a n d   a d d r e s s   t h e   p o i s o n o u s   p i p e l i n e   o f   e x t r e m i s m   t h a t   h a s   e m e r g e d   o v e r   t h e   p a s t   s e v e r a l   y e a r s   w h o s e   u l t i m a t e   e f f e c t s   a r e   i m p o s s i b l e   t o   q u a n t i f y   b u t   c l e a r l y   f a r   t o o   b i g   t o   i g n o r e   M r   R o o s e   w r i t e s   I t s   n o t   g o i n g   a w a y   a n d   i t s   n o t   p a r t i c u l a r l y   g e t t i n g   b e t t e r
P G E   i s   r e p o r t e d l y   c l o s e   t o   n a m i n g   B i l l   J o h n s o n   t h e   o u t g o i n g   h e a d   o f   t h e   T e n n e s s e e   V a l l e y   A u t h o r i t y   a s   i t s   n e x t   C E O
G o o g l e   n a m e d   S c o t t   B e a u m o n t   t h e   h e a d   o f   i t s   g r e a t e r   C h i n a   a n d   K o r e a   o p e r a t i o n s   a s   t h e   c h i e f   o f   i t s   A s i a P a c i f i c   t e a m
S t u a r t   B e n s o n   r e s i g n e d   a s   t h e   C F O   o f   M o v i e P a s s
P r i n c e v i l l e   C a p i t a l   a   v e n t u r e   c a p i t a l   f i r m   t h a t   i n v e s t s   i n   c l i m a t e   t e c h n o l o g y   h a s   r e c r u i t e d   L e o n a r d o   D i C a p r i o   a s   a n   a d v i s e r
D e a l s
  F i d e l i t y   N a t i o n a l   I n f o r m a t i o n   S e r v i c e s   a g r e e d   t o   b u y   a n   i n t e r n a t i o n a l   p a y m e n t s   p r o c e s s o r   W o r l d p a y   f o r   3 4   b i l l i o n   T h e   c o m p a n i e s
  C a e s a r s   E n t e r t a i n m e n t   a n d   E l d o r a d o   R e s o r t s   a r e   r e p o r t e d l y   i n   e a r l y   m e r g e r   t a l k s   R e u t e r s
  P r i v a t e   e q u i t y   f i r m s   l i k e   K K R   a n d   C V C   C a p i t a l   P a r t n e r s   a r e   r e p o r t e d l y   i n t e r e s t e d   i n   b u y i n g   B a y e r s   a n i m a l h e a l t h   d i v i s i o n   B l o o m b e r g
  P a g e r D u t y   a   p o p u l a r   s t a r t u p   t h a t   a l e r t s   I T   w o r k e r s   t o   t e c h   p r o b l e m s   t h a t   n e e d   f i x i n g   p u b l i c l y   f i l e d   f o r   a n   I P O   B u s i n e s s   I n s i d e r
P o l i t i c s   a n d   p o l i c y
  I n v e s t o r s   e a g e r l y   a w a i t   t h e   T r e a s u r y   D e p a r t m e n t s   r u l e s   f o r   i n v e s t i n g   i n   t a x a d v a n t a g e d   o p p o r t u n i t y   z o n e s   N Y T
  F o x   N e w s   s u s p e n d e d   J e a n i n e   P i r r o   o v e r   a   m o n o l o g u e   q u e s t i o n i n g   a   M u s l i m   l a w m a k e r s   l o y a l t y   t o   t h e   U S     a n d   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   w a s   u n h a p p y   a b o u t   t h e   m o v e   N Y T
  C i n d y   Y a n g   t h e   f o r m e r   o w n e r   o f   a   m a s s a g e   p a r l o r   b u s t e d   i n   a   p r o s t i t u t i o n   r i n g   h a s   c o m e   u n d e r   s c r u t i n y   f o r   p o l i t i c a l   a c t i v i t i e s   i n c l u d i n g   d o n a t i o n s   t o   t h e   p r e s i d e n t s   r e e l e c t i o n   c a m p a i g n   N Y T
B r e x i t
  P r i m e   M i n i s t e r   T h e r e s a   M a y   i s   e x p e c t e d   t o   p u t   h e r   B r e x i t   d e a l   u p   f o r   a   t h i r d   p a r l i a m e n t a r y   v o t e   t h i s   w e e k   b u t   t h a t   i s   l i k e l y   c o n t i n g e n t   o n   g a i n i n g   t h e   b a c k i n g   o f   t h e   D e m o c r a t i c   U n i o n i s t   P a r t y   F T
  M e a n w h i l e   t h e   L a b o u r   P a r t y   a p p e a r s   s e t   t o   s u p p o r t   a   p l a n   t h a t   w o u l d   s e e k   a   p u b l i c   v o t e   o n   M r s   M a y s   d e a l   i f   i t   i s   a p p r o v e d   b y   l a w m a k e r s   R e u t e r s
T r a d e
  T h e   U S   a n d   C h i n a   a r e   p u s h i n g   f o r   a   m e e t i n g   i n   l a t e   A p r i l   t o   c o m p l e t e   a   t r a d e   d e a l   b u t   n e g o t i a t o r s   a r e   s t i l l   g r a p p l i n g   o v e r   t h e   d e t a i l s   N Y T
  T h e   R u s s i a n   m e t a l s   t y c o o n   O l e g   D e r i p a s k a   h a s   s u e d   t h e   U S   T r e a s u r y   D e p a r t m e n t   o v e r   s a n c t i o n s   p l a c e d   o n   h i m   l a s t   y e a r   C N B C
  P r e s i d e n t   X i   J i n p i n g   o f   C h i n a   s t a r t s   a   s e r i e s   o f   s t a t e   v i s i t s   t o   E u r o p e   t h i s   w e e k   i n   a   b i d   t o   b o l s t e r   t r a d e   w i t h   t h e   c o n t i n e n t   B l o o m b e r g
T e c h
  M a r c   A n d r e e s s e n   a   F a c e b o o k   b o a r d   m e m b e r   r e p o r t e d l y   m e t   w i t h   t h e   C a m b r i d g e   A n a l y t i c a   w h i s t l e b l o w e r   C h r i s   W y l i e   i n   2 0 1 6   I f   t r u e   i t   w o u l d   s u g g e s t   h e   u n d e r s t o o d   t h e   e x t e n t   o f   t h e   c o m p a n y s   h a r v e s t i n g   o f   F a c e b o o k   d a t a   H e   d e n i e s   t h e   c l a i m   O b s e r v e r   B u s i n e s s   I n s i d e r
  I n   r e l a t e d   n e w s   t h e   a c a d e m i c   b e h i n d   C a m b r i d g e   A n a l y t i c a s   d a t a   m i n i n g   h a s   s u e d   F a c e b o o k   f o r   d e f a m a t i o n   N Y T
  A p p l e   i s   m a k i n g   a   b i l l i o n d o l l a r   b e t   t o   t a k e   o n   N e t f l i x   W i l l   i t   w o r k   N Y T
  T e c h   i n v e s t o r s   a r e   n o w   i n c l u d i n g   M e T o o   c l a u s e s   i n   t h e i r   s t a r t u p   d e a l s   F T
  B r e a k i n g   u p   t e c h   g i a n t s   h a s   s u d d e n l y   b e c o m e   a   p o p u l i s t   c o n c e p t     b u t   n o t   i n   S a n   F r a n c i s c o   N Y T   B l o o m b e r g
B e s t   o f   t h e   r e s t
  I n   t h e   w a k e   o f   t h e   a d m i s s i o n s   s c a n d a l   c o l l e g e s   a r e   r e t h i n k i n g   a t h l e t i c   s p e c i a l   a d m i s s i o n s   W S J
  T h e   F e d   i s   l i k e l y   t o   s a y   l a t e r   t h i s   w e e k   t h a t   i t   h a s   l i t t l e   a p p e t i t e   f o r   m o r e   i n t e r e s t   r a t e   r i s e s   t h i s   y e a r   W S J
  W h y   d o   s u c c e s s f u l   j o i n t   v e n t u r e s   t u r n   s o u r   I t s   o f t e n   b e c a u s e   t h e   s u c c e s s   b r e e d s   a   d e s i r e   f o r   c o n t r o l   t h a t   t h e   v e n t u r e   s o u g h t   t o   a v o i d   E c o n o m i s t
  T h e   E u r o p e a n   C e n t r a l   B a n k   i s   u n h a p p y   a b o u t   t h e   E U s   p l a n s   f o r   i n c r e a s i n g   s u p e r v i s i o n   o f   c l e a r i n g   h o u s e s   F T
T h a n k s   f o r   r e a d i n g   W e l l   s e e   y o u   t o m o r r o w
W e d   l o v e   y o u r   f e e d b a c k   P l e a s e   e m a i l   t h o u g h t s   a n d   s u g g e s t i o n s   t o   b u s i n e s s n y t i m e s c o m
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   A n d r e w   H i g g i n s   a n d   M u j i b   M a s h a l
M O S C O W     T h i r t y   y e a r s   a f t e r   t h e   l a s t   S o v i e t   t r o o p s   r e t r e a t e d   f r o m   A f g h a n i s t a n   R u s s i a   o n   T u e s d a y   r e a s s e r t e d   i t s e l f   a s   a   p l a y e r   i n   t h e   r e g i o n   h o s t i n g   t a l k s   b e t w e e n   t h e   T a l i b a n   a n d   s e n i o r   A f g h a n   p o l i t i c i a n s   a i m e d   a t   s p e e d i n g   t h e   e x i t   o f   a n o t h e r   s u p e r p o w e r     t h i s   t i m e   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s
T h e   t a l k s   h e l d   i n   M o s c o w s   P r e s i d e n t   H o t e l   w h i c h   i s   o w n e d   b y   t h e   K r e m l i n   o f f e r e d   a   c l e a r e r   v i e w   o f   h o w   t h e   T a l i b a n   s e e   a n   e n d   t o   t h e   1 8 y e a r   w a r   I n   a   r o o m   d r i p p i n g   w i t h   c h a n d e l i e r s   m o r e   t h a n   5 0   d e l e g a t e s     m a n y   i n   f l o w i n g   r o b e s   s o m e   i n   W e s t e r n   s u i t s   a n d   t i e s   a n d   n e a r l y   a l l   o l d   a n d   s o m e t i m e s   v i o l e n t   r i v a l s     f a c e d   e a c h   o t h e r   a c r o s s   a   l a r g e   c i r c u l a r   c o n f e r e n c e   t a b l e
W h i l e   t h e   A f g h a n   p o l i t i c i a n s   p a r t   o f   a   d e l e g a t i o n   l e d   b y   f o r m e r   P r e s i d e n t   H a m i d   K a r z a i   s p o k e   o f   p r o t e c t i n g   t h e   h a r d   g a i n s   o f   t h e   p a s t   t w o   d e c a d e s   t h e   T a l i b a n   d e n o u n c e d   a   n e w   A f g h a n   C o n s t i t u t i o n   t h a t   l a y s   o u t   a   s y s t e m   o f   g o v e r n a n c e   b u i l t   a t   e n o r m o u s   c o s t
T h e   T a l i b a n   r e p r e s e n t a t i v e s   a l s o   o f f e r e d   a   r a r e   l o o k   a t   h o w   t h e y   n o w   s e e   t h e   r o l e   o f   w o m e n   W h i l e   t h e y   b a r r e d   w o m e n   f r o m   p u b l i c   l i f e   d u r i n g   t h e i r   t i m e   i n   p o w e r   t h e y   s a i d   t h e y   n o w   b e l i e v e d   i n   w o m e n s   r i g h t s   i n c l u d i n g   t o   e d u c a t i o n   a n d   w o r k     a   c l a i m   m e t   w i t h   s k e p t i c i s m   b y   s o m e   w o m e n   i n   A f g h a n i s t a n
T h e   M o s c o w   g a t h e r i n g   w h i c h   i n c l u d e d   a   T a l i b a n   d e l e g a t i o n   l e d   b y   t h e i r   c h i e f   n e g o t i a t o r   S h e r   M o h a m m a d   A b b a s   S t a n e k z a i   r e p r e s e n t e d   t h e   m o s t   s i g n i f i c a n t   c o n t a c t   b e t w e e n   s e n i o r   A f g h a n   p o l i t i c i a n s   a n d   t h e   T a l i b a n   s i n c e   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   t o p p l e d   t h e   h a r d l i n e   I s l a m i s t   g r o u p   f r o m   p o w e r   a t   t h e   e n d   o f   2 0 0 1
A b s e n t   f r o m   t h e   t a l k s   h o w e v e r   w a s   t h e   A m e r i c a n b a c k e d   A f g h a n   g o v e r n m e n t   o f   P r e s i d e n t   A s h r a f   G h a n i   w h i c h   h a s   s t r o n g l y   c r i t i c i z e d   t h e   m e e t i n g   a s   a n   a f f r o n t   d e s i g n e d   t o   u n d e r m i n e   h i s   o f f i c e s   a u t h o r i t y   a n d   t h e   A f g h a n   s t a t e
M r   G h a n i   i s   i n   a n   u n c o m f o r t a b l e   p o s i t i o n   a t   o d d s   n o t   o n l y   w i t h   h i s   A m e r i c a n   b a c k e r s   w h o m   h e   s e e s   a s   m o v i n g   t o o   q u i c k l y   t o   r e a c h   a   d e a l   b u t   a l s o   w i t h   o t h e r s   i n   t h e   c o u n t r y s   p o l i t i c a l   e l i t e   w h o   a r e   r a l l y i n g   a r o u n d   t h e   A m e r i c a n l e d   e f f o r t
W h a t   a r e   t h e y   a g r e e i n g   t o   w i t h   w h o m   W h e r e   i s   t h e i r   i m p l e m e n t i n g   p o w e r   M r   G h a n i   t o l d   t h e   A f g h a n   c h a n n e l   T o l o N e w s   o n   T u e s d a y   d i s m i s s i n g   t h e   t a l k s   T h e y   c o u l d   h o l d   a   h u n d r e d   s u c h   m e e t i n g s   b u t   u n t i l   t h e   A f g h a n   g o v e r n m e n t   t h e   A f g h a n   P a r l i a m e n t   t h e   l e g a l   i n s t i t u t i o n s   o f   A f g h a n i s t a n   a p p r o v e   i t   i t   i s   j u s t   a g r e e m e n t s   o n   p a p e r
T h e   d e l e g a t i o n   h e a d e d   b y   M r   K a r z a i   c o n s i s t e d   e n t i r e l y   o f   f o r m e r   o f f i c i a l s   r e p r e s e n t a t i v e s   o f   p o l i t i c a l   p a r t i e s     m a n y   o f   t h e m   i n v o l v e d   i n   t h e   c o u n t r y s   b l o o d y   c i v i l   w a r     a n d   c u r r e n t   m e m b e r s   o f   P a r l i a m e n t   T h e r e   w e r e   o n l y   t w o   w o m e n   i n   t h e   g r o u p
A f g h a n s   o n   s o c i a l   m e d i a   w e r e   c r i t i c a l   o f   t h e   d e l e g a t i o n   q u e s t i o n i n g   w h e t h e r   t h e y   r e p r e s e n t e d   A f g h a n i s t a n
T h o s e   w h o   a r e   i n   t h e   m e e t i n g   i n   M o s c o w   t h e y   h a v e   b e e n   p u s h e d   a s i d e   s a i d   K h a l e d   A b e d y   3 1   w h o   w o r k s   a t   a   p r i v a t e   c o m p a n y   i n   K a b u l   t h e   A f g h a n   c a p i t a l   T h e y   j u s t   w a n t   t o   b u i l d   t h e i r   o w n   b u s i n e s s   T h e   c o u n t r y   i s n t   i m p o r t a n t   t o   t h e m   I   t h i n k   t h i s   s o r t   o f   m e e t i n g   c a n t   h e l p   t h e   p e a c e   p r o c e s s   a t   a l l
B u t   A t t a   M u h a m m a d   N o o r   o n e   o f   t h e   A f g h a n   p o l i t i c i a n s   i n   t h e   d e l e g a t i o n   i n   M o s c o w   s a i d   t h e   p a r t i c i p a n t s   t h e r e   c o n s i d e r e d   t h e m s e l v e s   t o   b e   m o r e   r e p r e s e n t a t i v e   o f   A f g h a n i s t a n   t h a n   M r   G h a n i s   g o v e r n m e n t
W e   h a v e   b e e n   f i g h t i n g   f o r   4 0   y e a r s   a n d   w e   a r e   t h e   p e o p l e   w i t h   i n f l u e n c e   n o t   G h a n i   s a i d   M r   N o o r   w h o   w a s   t h e   l o n g t i m e   g o v e r n o r   o f   B a l k h   P r o v i n c e   b e f o r e   M r   G h a n i   d i s m i s s e d   h i m   l a s t   y e a r
S p e a k i n g   o n   t h e   s i d e l i n e s   o f   t h e   e v e n t   h e   s a i d   t h a t   a l l   f o r e i g n   f o r c e s   i n c l u d i n g   a r o u n d   1 4 0 0 0   A m e r i c a n   t r o o p s   m u s t   l e a v e   A f g h a n i s t a n   B u t   h e   c a u t i o n e d   t h a t   t h e y   s h o u l d   b e   w i t h d r a w n   g r a d u a l l y   t o   a v o i d   a   r e p e a t   o f   t h e   c h a o s   t h a t   e n g u l f e d   A f g h a n i s t a n   a f t e r   t h e   a b r u p t   S o v i e t   p u l l o u t   i n   1 9 8 9
T h e   t a l k s   s c h e d u l e d   t o   l a s t   t w o   d a y s   o p e n e d   j u s t   a   w e e k   a f t e r   A m e r i c a n   d i p l o m a t s   a n d   T a l i b a n   r e p r e s e n t a t i v e s   e n d e d   s i x   d a y s   o f   n e g o t i a t i o n s   i n   D o h a   t h e   c a p i t a l   o f   Q a t a r   E a c h   s i d e   s a i d   t h o s e   n e g o t i a t i o n s   h a d   m a d e   p r o g r e s s   t o w a r d   e n d i n g   a   c o n f l i c t   t h a t   b e g a n   w h e n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   i n v a d e d   A f g h a n i s t a n   i n   2 0 0 1   n o t   l o n g   a f t e r   t h e   t e r r o r   a t t a c k s   o f   S e p t   1 1
B o t h   s i d e s   s a i d   t h e y   h a d   a g r e e d   i n   p r i n c i p l e   t o   a   f r a m e w o r k   o n   t w o   i s s u e s   a   T a l i b a n   g u a r a n t e e   t h a t   A f g h a n   s o i l   w o u l d   n e v e r   a g a i n   b e   u s e d   b y   t e r r o r i s t   g r o u p s   l i k e   A l   Q a e d a   a n d   a   p l e d g e   f r o m   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   t o   w i t h d r a w   i t s   t r o o p s   B u t   m a n y   A f g h a n s   a r e   c o n c e r n e d   t h a t   t h e   A m e r i c a n s   m i g h t   b e   t o o   e a g e r   t o   s t r i k e   a   d e a l
T h e   o r g a n i z e r   o f   t h e   M o s c o w   t a l k s   i s   o s t e n s i b l y   t h e   A f g h a n   d i a s p o r a   i n   R u s s i a   n o t   t h e   R u s s i a n   g o v e r n m e n t   B u t   A f g h a n   o f f i c i a l s   a n d   T a l i b a n   m e m b e r s   h a v e   s a i d   t h a t   t h e   K r e m l i n   i s   p l a y i n g   a   m a j o r   r o l e   o r c h e s t r a t i n g   t h e   m e e t i n g   b e h i n d   t h e   s c e n e s
R u s s i a   c h a s t e n e d   b y   t h e   d a m a g e   d o n e   t o   t h e   S o v i e t   U n i o n   d u r i n g   i t s   o c c u p a t i o n   o f   A f g h a n i s t a n   h a s   s h o w n   n o   i n t e r e s t   i n   g e t t i n g   i n v o l v e d   m i l i t a r i l y   a g a i n   a t   l e a s t   n o t   d i r e c t l y   B u t   i t   h a s   p o s i t i o n e d   i t s e l f   a s   a   f o r c e   t o   b e   r e c k o n e d   w i t h   r e l i s h i n g   W a s h i n g t o n s   a g o n i e s   a t   t h e   h a n d s   o f   T a l i b a n   i n s u r g e n t s
R u s s i a   d e s i g n a t e d   t h e   T a l i b a n   a   t e r r o r i s t   o r g a n i z a t i o n   i n   2 0 0 3   a n d   a t   f i r s t   s t r o n g l y   s u p p o r t e d   A m e r i c a n   e f f o r t s   t o   p u r g e   A f g h a n i s t a n   o f   e x t r e m i s t   I s l a m i s t   g r o u p s   w h i c h   P r e s i d e n t   V l a d i m i r   V   P u t i n   d e s c r i b e d   a s   a   t h r e a t   t o   R u s s i a s   s e c u r i t y
B u t   a m i d   a   r i s i n g   C o l d   W a r s t y l e   r i v a l r y   b e t w e e n   M o s c o w   a n d   W a s h i n g t o n   R u s s i a   h a s   h e d g e d   i t s   b e t s   b y   o p e n i n g   c h a n n e l s   w i t h   t h e   T a l i b a n   M o s c o w   a l l o w e d   a   1 0 m e m b e r   d e l e g a t i o n   f r o m   t h e   T a l i b a n   s t i l l   o f f i c i a l l y   b a r r e d   a s   t e r r o r i s t s   t o   e n t e r   R u s s i a   f o r   t h e   M o s c o w   t a l k s
O n   T u e s d a y   i n   A f g h a n i s t a n   t h e   v i o l e n c e   c o n t i n u e d   u n a b a t e d   T h e   T a l i b a n   a t t a c k e d   p o l i c e   a n d   a r m y   o u t p o s t s   a r o u n d   t h e   n o r t h e r n   c i t y   o f   K u n d u z   b e f o r e   d a w n   k i l l i n g   a t   l e a s t   2 3   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   A f g h a n   s e c u r i t y   f o r c e s   I n   T a k h a r   P r o v i n c e   g u n m e n   a t t a c k e d   a   w o m e n s   r a d i o   s t a t i o n   k i l l i n g   t w o   s t a f f   m e m b e r s
M r   K a r z a i   m a d e   a n   a p p e a l   t o   e n d   t h e   b l o o d s h e d   s a y i n g   A f g h a n   s o l d i e r s   a n d   T a l i b a n   f i g h t e r s   w e r e   b u r i e d   n e x t   t o   e a c h   o t h e r
A l l   a r o u n d   t h e m   i n   t h e s e   g r a v e y a r d s   a r e   t h e   r e g u l a r   A f g h a n s     t h e i r   g r a v e s   a r e   p l e n t y   M r   K a r z a i   s a i d   T h e   d r e a m   o f   e v e r y   m o t h e r   t h e   h o p e   o f   e v e r y   f a t h e r   i s   b u r i e d   t h e r e
M r   K a r z a i   w a s   f i r s t   i n s t a l l e d   a s   A f g h a n i s t a n s   l e a d e r   b y   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   i n   l a t e   2 0 0 1   b u t   t h e   r e l a t i o n s h i p   s o u r e d   H e   h a s   v i s i t e d   R u s s i a   o f t e n   s i n c e   l e a v i n g   o f f i c e   i n   2 0 1 4   a n d   i n   m e e t i n g s   w i t h   M r   P u t i n   a n d   o t h e r   o f f i c i a l s   h e   h a s   a l i g n e d   h i m s e l f   w i t h   M o s c o w s   v i e w   t h a t   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   m u s t   l e a v e   A f g h a n i s t a n   a s   t h e   S o v i e t   U n i o n   d i d
M r   S t a n e k z a i   t h e   T a l i b a n s   c h i e f   n e g o t i a t o r   s a i d   i n   a   s p e e c h   l a s t i n g   m o r e   t h a n   h a l f   a n   h o u r   t h a t   t h e   g r o u p   d i d   n o t   s e e k   t o   m o n o p o l i z e   p o w e r   i n s i d e   A f g h a n i s t a n   H e   s a i d   t h a t   t h e y   w e r e   p u r s u i n g   a n   I s l a m i s t   g o v e r n m e n t   i n   c o n s u l t a t i o n   w i t h   a l l   A f g h a n s   a n d   t h a t   t h e   g r o u p   d i d   n o t   r e c o g n i z e   t h e   c o u n t r y s   c u r r e n t   C o n s t i t u t i o n   c a l l i n g   i t   c o p i e d   f r o m   t h e   W e s t
P e r h a p s   t h e   m o s t   r e v e a l i n g   p a r t   o f   h i s   s p e e c h   c a m e   w h e n   h e   d e s c r i b e d   t h e   T a l i b a n s   v i e w   o f   a   f u t u r e   r o l e   f o r   A f g h a n   w o m e n   W h e n   i n   p o w e r   t h e   g r o u p   s e n t   i t s   r e l i g i o u s   p o l i c e   t o   p a t r o l   t h e   s t r e e t s   g i v i n g   o u t   l a s h e s   t o   w o m e n   f o r   a m o n g   o t h e r   t h i n g s   s h o w i n g   t h e i r   a n k l e s
W e   a r e   c o m m i t t e d   t o   a l l   r i g h t s   g i v e n   t o   w o m e n   b y   I s l a m   M r   S t a n e k z a i   s a i d   I s l a m   h a s   g i v e n   w o m e n   a l l   f u n d a m e n t a l   r i g h t s     s u c h   a s   t r a d e   o w n e r s h i p   i n h e r i t a n c e   e d u c a t i o n   w o r k   a n d   t h e   c h o i c e   o f   p a r t n e r   s e c u r i t y   a n d   e d u c a t i o n   a n d   a   g o o d   l i f e
C o n s i d e r i n g   t h e   g r o u p s   h i s t o r y   s o m e   A f g h a n   w o m e n   i m m e d i a t e l y   q u e s t i o n e d   t h e   s t a t e m e n t s   s i n c e r i t y
B u t   F a w z i a   K o o f i   a   f e m a l e   m e m b e r   o f   t h e   A f g h a n   P a r l i a m e n t   a n d   o n e   o f   t h e   t w o   w o m e n   i n   a t t e n d a n c e   s a i d   s h e   w a s   h a p p y   t o   h a v e   h e a r d   t h e   T a l i b a n   p r o m i s e   t h a t   w o m e n   w o u l d   n o t   b e   s t r i p p e d   o f   t h e i r   r i g h t s   a n d   w o u l d   b e   a l l o w e d   t o   s e r v e   a s   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r     t h o u g h   n o t   a s   p r e s i d e n t
H o w e v e r   s h e   c a u t i o n e d   W e   h a v e   g a i n e d   s o   m u c h   i n   t h e   l a s t   1 8   y e a r s   w h a t e v e r   t h e   p r o b l e m s   t h a t   w e   d o   n o t   w a n t   t o   g o   b a c k   t h e   T a l i b a n   p e r i o d
A n d r e w   H i g g i n s   r e p o r t e d   f r o m   M o s c o w   a n d   M u j i b   M a s h a l   f r o m   K a b u l   A f g h a n i s t a n   N a j i m   R a h i m   c o n t r i b u t e d   r e p o r t i n g   f r o m   M a z a r i S h a r i f   A f g h a n i s t a n   F a h i m   A b e d   a n d   F a t i m a   F a i z i   f r o m   K a b u l   a n d   T a i m o o r   S h a h   f r o m   K a n d a h a r   A f g h a n i s t a n




A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a u s e r
I t   i s   l i k e   a n   o n l i n e   m a t c h m a k i n g   s e r v i c e   H o r s e   l o v e r s   w h o   w a n t   t o   a d o p t   a   w i l d   m u s t a n g   f r o m   t h e   w e s t e r n   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   c a n   b r o w s e   d o z e n s   o f   h e a d s h o t s
F r o m   d r o p d o w n   m e n u s   y o u   c a n   c h o o s e   g e n d e r   c o l o r   a n d   a g e   a   4 y e a r o l d   c h e s t n u t   m a r e   f o r   e x a m p l e   o r   a   9 y e a r o l d   g r a y   g e l d i n g   S o m e   h o r s e s   h a v e   n o   t r a i n i n g   w h i l e   o t h e r s   m i g h t   b e   g e n t l e d   w i t h   e x p e r i e n c e   b e i n g   h a n d l e d
T h i s   i s   W i l d   H o r s e s   O n l i n e   p a r t   o f   t h e   f e d e r a l   B u r e a u   o f   L a n d   M a n a g e m e n t s   o n l i n e   a d o p t i o n   s e r v i c e   S t a r t i n g   t h i s   m o n t h   t h e   b u r e a u   i s   t r y i n g   t o   m a k e   w i l d   m u s t a n g   a d o p t i o n s   m o r e   a t t r a c t i v e   b y   p a y i n g   1 0 0 0   t o   t h o s e   w h o   t a k e   i n   t h e   a n i m a l s   w h i c h   a r e   g a t h e r e d   u p   f r o m   p u b l i c   l a n d   i n   t h e   w e s t e r n   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   a s   p a r t   o f   e f f o r t s   t o   m a n a g e   t h e   p o p u l a t i o n
T h e   a d o p t i o n   p r o g r a m   w h i c h   b e g a n   o n   M a r c h   1 2   i s   i n t e n d e d   t o   e n c o u r a g e   p o t e n t i a l   o w n e r s   t o   t a k e   t h e   l e a p   i n t o   a d o p t i n g   w i l d   h o r s e s   w h o s e   a c c e s s   t o   p a s t u r e   a n d   w a t e r   i s   c h a l l e n g e d   b y   f a c t o r s   i n c l u d i n g   a   r i s i n g   p o p u l a t i o n   a n d   d r o u g h t s   s a i d   D e b o r a h   C o l l i n s   t h e   b u r e a u s   o u t r e a c h   o f f i c e r
M s   C o l l i n s   s a i d   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   h o p e d   p e o p l e   w o u l d   t a k e   a   f r e s h   l o o k   a t   o w n i n g   a   w i l d   h o r s e   a n d   s a y   t o   t h e m s e l v e s   I   g o t   a   l i t t l e   h e l p   n o w   I   c a n   g o   f i n d   m e   a   t r a i n e r
T h e   p r o g r a m   i s   t h e   f i r s t   i n c e n t i v e   o f   i t s   t y p e   t h a t   t h e   B u r e a u   o f   L a n d   M a n a g e m e n t   h a s   o f f e r e d   s i n c e   t h e   W i l d   F r e e R o a m i n g   H o r s e s   a n d   B u r r o s   A c t   o f   1 9 7 1   d e t a i l e d   t h e   a g e n c y s   d u t i e s   a s   t h e   l e g a l   c u s t o d i a n   o f   w i l d   h o r s e s   a n d   b u r r o s   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s
P r e v i o u s l y   p e o p l e   a d o p t e d   a   w i l d   m u s t a n g   b y   p a y i n g   1 2 5   N o w   t h e y   a r e   p a i d   5 0 0   u p   f r o n t   a n d   r e c e i v e   t h e   5 0 0   b a l a n c e   o n c e   t h e y   p r o v e   t h e y   h a v e   o w n e d   t h e   a n i m a l   r e s p o n s i b l y   f o r   a   y e a r   M s   C o l l i n s   s a i d
C a r r i e   a n d   J i m   P a c i l e o   o f   P o w e l l   W y o   d r o v e   s i x   h o u r s   o n   M a r c h   1 5   t o   a n   a d o p t i o n   e v e n t   i n   R o c k   S p r i n g s   T h e   c o u p l e   a l r e a d y   h a d   a d o p t e d   t w o   m u s t a n g s   o n e   c o m p l e t e l y   t r a i n e d   a n d   t h e   o t h e r   p a r t l y   t r a i n e d   b u t   t h e y   w a n t e d   m o r e
I   t o l d   m y   h u s b a n d   I   w a n t e d   t o   t r y   t o   t r a i n   s o m e   t h a t   w e r e   c o m p l e t e l y   w i l d   M s   P a c i l e o   s a i d
T h e y   c a m e   h o m e   w i t h   t w o   m u s t a n g s   9 m o n t h o l d   R e m m i   a n d   1 1 m o n t h o l d   S t o r m y
B e i n g   y o u n g e r   w e   t h o u g h t   m a y b e   i t   w o u l d   b e   e a s i e r   M s   P a c i l e o   s a i d
S h e   s a i d   t h e   m o n e y   t h e y   r e c e i v e   f o r   a d o p t i n g   t h e   h o r s e s   w o u l d   b e   i n v e s t e d   i n   e q u i p m e n t   a n d   h a y   p r o d u c t i o n   o n   t h e i r   4 0   a c r e s
I   w a n t e d   t h e m   b e c a u s e   t o   m e   t h e y   a r e   j u s t   l i k e   t h e   u l t i m a t e   s y m b o l   o f   A m e r i c a   s h e   s a i d
M o r e   t h a n   6 6 0 0 0   w i l d   h o r s e s   a n d   a b o u t   1 5 0 0 0   b u r r o s   r o a m   o n   a b o u t   2 6   m i l l i o n   a c r e s   i n   1 0   s t a t e s   t h e   b u r e a u s   l a t e s t   d a t a   s h o w s   T h e   i d e a l   l e v e l   f o r   b o t h   p o p u l a t i o n s   c o m b i n e d   i s   a b o u t   2 6 6 9 0   a c c o r d i n g   t o   t h e   b u r e a u
T h e   c h a l l e n g e   f o r   t h e   b u r e a u   i s   t o   b a l a n c e   t h e   p o p u l a t i o n   o f   t h e s e   a n i m a l s   w i t h   a v a i l a b l e   r e s o u r c e s   o n   p u b l i c   a n d   p r i v a t e   l a n d s   S o m e   h a v e   b e e n   f o u n d   r a m b l i n g   a l o n g   h i g h w a y s   o r   f o r a g i n g   i n   b a c k y a r d s   o r   t h e y   a r e   d i s c o v e r e d   o n   o p e n   r a n g e   e m a c i a t e d   a n d   d y i n g   o f   t h i r s t   M s   C o l l i n s   s a i d
T h e   m a i n   m e t h o d   o f   p o p u l a t i o n   c o n t r o l   h a s   b e e n   t o   s i m p l y   m o v e   t h e m   F r o m   J u l y   t h r o u g h   F e b r u a r y   h e l i c o p t e r s   c h a s e   t h e   w i l d   h o r s e s   i n t o   c o r r a l s   o r   o t h e r   f a c i l i t i e s   w h e r e   t h e y   c a n   b e   m a d e   a v a i l a b l e   f o r   a d o p t i o n   o r   s o l d   i f   t h e y   a r e   n o t   a d o p t e d
L a s t   y e a r   m o r e   t h a n   1 1 0 0 0   h o r s e s   a n d   b u r r o s   w e r e   r e m o v e d   f r o m   p u b l i c   l a n d s   t h e   m o s t   i n   n e a r l y   a   d e c a d e   t h e   b u r e a u   f i g u r e s   s h o w   A s   o f   l a s t   m o n t h   a b o u t   5 0 0 0 0   h o r s e s   w e r e   a v a i l a b l e   f o r   a d o p t i o n   i n   c o r r a l s   o r   i n   o f f r a n g e   p a s t u r e s   t h a t   h a d   b e e n   t h e r e   l o n g t e r m   M s   C o l l i n s   s a i d
S o m e   o f   t h e   b u r e a u s   m e a s u r e s   h a v e   a t t r a c t e d   c o n t r o v e r s y   o v e r   i t s   u s e   o f   h e l i c o p t e r s   t o   c h a s e   t h e   a n i m a l s   a n d   i t s   r e m o v a l   o f   h o r s e s   f r o m   o p e n   r a n g e   a s   i t s   p r i m a r y   m e t h o d   o f   p o p u l a t i o n   c o n t r o l   S o m e   h a v e   w o r r i e d   t h a t   w i l d   h o r s e s   c o u l d   e n d   u p   i n   s l a u g h t e r h o u s e s   a b r o a d
T h e   A m e r i c a n   W i l d   H o r s e   C a m p a i g n   a n   a d v o c a c y   g r o u p   s a i d   i n   a   s t a t e m e n t   c r i t i c i z i n g   t h e   b u r e a u s s   n e w   a d o p t i o n   p r o g r a m   t h a t   t h e   a g e n c y   s h o u l d   e m p l o y   o t h e r   p o p u l a t i o n   c o n t r o l   m e a s u r e s   s u c h   a s   f e r t i l i t y   m e t h o d s   T h e   B L M   c a n n o t   a d o p t   i t s   w a y   o u t   o f   t h e   s i t u a t i o n   i t   f a c e s   w i t h   t h e   s t o c k p i l i n g   o f   5 0 0 0 0   h o r s e s   i n   h o l d i n g   f a c i l i t i e s   s a i d   S u z a n n e   R o y   t h e   g r o u p s   e x e c u t i v e   d i r e c t o r
M s   C o l l i n s   s a i d   t h e   b u r e a u   h a d   t r i e d   f e r t i l i t y   m e a s u r e s   i n c l u d i n g   s e n d i n g   v o l u n t e e r s   t o   a d m i n i s t e r   b i r t h   c o n t r o l   v a c c i n a t i o n s   t o   m a r e s   i n   t h e   w i l d   B u t   t h e   e f f e c t s   o f   t h e   v a c c i n a t i o n s   l a s t   o n l y   a   y e a r   t o   1 8   m o n t h s   a n d   t h e   r e s u l t s   h a v e   n o t   a d e q u a t e l y   a d d r e s s e d   o v e r p o p u l a t i o n   s h e   s a i d
T h e   b u r e a u s   p u s h   t o   m a k e   a d o p t i o n s   m o r e   e n t i c i n g   h a s   f o c u s e d   o n   t r a i n i n g   T h e   a g e n c y   h a s   b e e n   w o r k i n g   w i t h   t h e   n o n p r o f i t   M u s t a n g   H e r i t a g e   F o u n d a t i o n   w h i c h   s t a r t e d   E x t r e m e   M u s t a n g   M a k e o v e r   a   n a t i o n a l   c o m p e t i t i o n   i n   w h i c h   t r a i n e r s   h a v e   a b o u t   1 0 0   d a y s   t o   t u r n   a   w i l d   m u s t a n g   i n t o   a   w e l l b e h a v e d   s t e e d
W i l d   m u s t a n g s   a r e   a l s o   t r a i n e d   a t   s o m e   f e d e r a l   p r i s o n s   i n   r e h a b i l i t a t i o n   p r o g r a m s   t h a t   a r e   c o o r d i n a t e d   w i t h   t h e   b u r e a u
T h e   1 0 0 0   a d o p t i o n   p a y o u t   c o s t s   t h e   b u r e a u   h a l f   o f   w h a t   i t   w o u l d   t o   k e e p   e a c h   a n i m a l   f o r   a   y e a r   M s   C o l l i n s   s a i d   F o r   o w n e r s   m u s t a n g s   c o s t   l e s s   t o   k e e p   t h a n   o t h e r   b r e e d s   s u c h   a s   t h o r o u g h b r e d s   o r   q u a r t e r   h o r s e s   s a i d   M a r y   S a n t a g a t a   w h o   a d o p t s   a n d   b u y s   m u s t a n g s   a t   A l l   t h e   K i n g s   H o r s e s   a   r e s c u e   o r g a n i z a t i o n   i n   N o r t h f o r d   C o n n
A d o p t e d   m u s t a n g s   h a v e   c u r r e n t   v a c c i n a t i o n s   M s   S a n t a g a t a   s a i d   b u t   a n n u a l   v e t e r i n a r y   c a r e   c o u l d   c o s t   a b o u t   3 0 0   i f   t h e r e   a r e   n o   p r o b l e m s   A b o u t   5 0   e v e r y   e i g h t   t o   1 0   w e e k s   g o e s   t o w a r d   h a v i n g   t h e i r   h o o v e s   p r o f e s s i o n a l l y   t r i m m e d   M a n y   o w n e r s   j u s t   f e e d   t h e i r   m u s t a n g s   h a y   s i m i l a r   t o   t h e i r   d i e t   o n   t h e   o p e n   r a n g e   r a t h e r   t h a n   m o r e   e x p e n s i v e   g r a i n   w i t h   t h e   h a y   s h e   s a i d
T h e y   a r e   s o   h a r d y   M s   S a n t a g a t a   s a i d   T h e y   a r e   b u i l t   t o   s u r v i v e
O t h e r   c o s t s   i n c l u d e   a d a p t i n g   c o r r a l s   w i t h   s i x f o o t h i g h   p a n e l e d   f e n c i n g   s o   t h e   w i l d   h o r s e s   c a n n o t   e s c a p e   a n d   p r o v i d i n g   t h e m   w i t h   o p e n s i d e d   s h e d s   t h a t   t h e y   c a n   e n t e r   t h e m s e l v e s   w h e n   t h e y   n e e d   s h e l t e r   b e c a u s e   t h e y   a r e   n o t   e a s i l y   l e d
T h e   m o s t   e x p e n s i v e   p a r t   o f   o w n i n g   a   w i l d   h o r s e   M s   S a n t a g a t a   s a i d   i s   p a y i n g   f o r   e x p e r i e n c e d   t r a i n e r s   A t   4 1   s h e   h a s   b e e n   a r o u n d   h o r s e s   a l l   h e r   l i f e   b u t   s h e   s a i d   s h e   c o u l d   h a n d l e   o n l y   b a s i c   g e n t l i n g   o f   a   w i l d   m u s t a n g   W h e n   t h e   h o r s e s   a r e   i n   h e r   c o r r a l s   s h e   u s e s   a   s o f t   o p e n i n g   b y   a p p r o a c h i n g   a n d   r e t r e a t i n g   s o   t h e y   g e t   a c c u s t o m e d   t o   h e r
Y o u   w a l k   a r o u n d   i t   a n d   s e e   h o w   i t   r e a c t s   t o   y o u   s h e   s a i d   I   h a v e   h a d   m u s t a n g s   t h a t   w o u l d   n o t   l o o k   a t   m e   f o r   m o n t h s
S h e   g r a d u a l l y   i n t r o d u c e s   t h e m   t o   h a l t e r s   a n d   t o   b e i n g   l e d   a r o u n d   w h i c h   s h e   i s   a b l e   t o   a c c o m p l i s h   i n   a b o u t   t h r e e   m o n t h s   s h e   s a i d   F o r   a d v a n c e d   s k i l l s   l i k e   r i d i n g   s h e   s e n d s   t h e   m u s t a n g s   t o   p r o f e s s i o n a l s   b u t   n o t   b e f o r e   s h e   h a s   g r o w n   t o   k n o w   t h e m
I   l o o k   a t   t h e m   l i k e   I   a m   a d o p t i n g   a   l i v i n g   l e g e n d   M s   S a n t a g a t a   s a i d   T h e y   a r e   a   m y s t i c a l   c r e a t u r e   o u t   i n   t h e   w i l d   a n d   o n l y   a   f e w   l u c k y   o n e s   c a n   f i n d   t h e m




A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   N i c h o l a s   C a s e y
B O G O T Á   C o l o m b i a     J o r g e   R a m o s   a   n e w s   a n c h o r   f o r   t h e   t e l e v i s i o n   n e t w o r k   U n i v i s i o n   s a i d   h e   w a s   d e t a i n e d   b y   t h e   V e n e z u e l a n   g o v e r n m e n t   d u r i n g   a   c o n f r o n t a t i o n a l   i n t e r v i e w   w i t h   P r e s i d e n t   N i c o l á s   M a d u r o   o n   M o n d a y   e v e n i n g   a t   t h e   M i r a f l o r e s   P a l a c e   i n   C a r a c a s
H e   d i d n t   l i k e   t h e   t h i n g s   w e   w e r e   a s k i n g   h i m   a b o u t   t h e   l a c k   o f   d e m o c r a c y   i n   V e n e z u e l a   t h e   t o r t u r e   a n d   t h e   p o l i t i c a l   p r i s o n e r s   M r   R a m o s   r e c o u n t e d   o n   a   U n i v i s i o n   b r o a d c a s t   a f t e r   h e   s a i d   h e   w a s   r e l e a s e d   b y   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t
M r   R a m o s   s a i d   h e   h a d   b e e n   d e t a i n e d   f o r   m o r e   t h a n   t w o   h o u r s   b e f o r e   h e   w a s   l e t   g o   a n d   a l l o w e d   t o   r e t u r n   t o   h i s   h o t e l   H e   s a i d   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   h a d   c o n f i s c a t e d   h i s   c r e w s   e q u i p m e n t   i n c l u d i n g   t h e i r   p h o n e s   a n d   m e m o r y   c a r d s
W e   d o n t   h a v e   a n y t h i n g   h e   s a i d   T h e y   h a v e   t h e   i n t e r v i e w s
O n   M o n d a y   n i g h t   K i m b e r l y   B r e i e r   t h e   a s s i s t a n t   s e c r e t a r y   o f   s t a t e   f o r   t h e   W e s t e r n   H e m i s p h e r e   a t   t h e   S t a t e   D e p a r t m e n t   s a i d   t h a t   M r   R a m o s   h a d   b e e n   d e t a i n e d   a n d   c a l l e d   o n   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   t o   r e l e a s e   h i m   i m m e d i a t e l y
T h e   w o r l d   i s   w a t c h i n g   s h e   w r o t e   o n   T w i t t e r
V e n e z u e l a s   g o v e r n m e n t   d i d   n o t   d i s p u t e   t h e   a c c o u n t   o f   M r   R a m o s   b e i n g   t e m p o r a r i l y   h e l d   b u t   a p p e a r e d   t o   l a y   t h e   b l a m e   o n   t h e   a n c h o r
W e   d o n t   l e n d   o u r s e l v e s   t o   c h e a p   s h o w s   s a i d   J o r g e   R o d r í g u e z   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   c o m m u n i c a t i o n s   m i n i s t e r
H e   a d d e d   H u n d r e d s   o f   j o u r n a l i s t s   h a v e   c o m e   t h r o u g h   w h o   r e c e i v e d   d e c e n t   t r e a t m e n t   t h a t   w e   a l w a y s   g i v e   t o   t h o s e   w h o   d o   j o u r n a l i s t i c   w o r k
M r   R a m o s   a   M e x i c o b o r n   A m e r i c a n   j o u r n a l i s t   i s   k n o w n   f o r   h i s   c o n f r o n t a t i o n a l   q u e s t i o n s   p a r t i c u l a r l y   w i t h   l e a d e r s   w h o   h a v e   a t t a c k e d   t h e   p r e s s   I n   2 0 1 5   h e   t a n g l e d   w i t h   D o n a l d   J   T r u m p   t h e n   a   p r e s i d e n t i a l   c a n d i d a t e   d u r i n g   a   n e w s   c o n f e r e n c e   i n   w h i c h   M r   T r u m p   e v e n t u a l l y   h a d   g u a r d s   f o r c e   h i m   o u t   o f   t h e   r o o m
G o   b a c k   t o   U n i v i s i o n   M r   T r u m p   s a i d
U n i v i s i o n   i s   t h e   l a r g e s t   S p a n i s h l a n g u a g e   t e l e v i s i o n   n e t w o r k   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s
M r   M a d u r o   h a s   u n t i l   r e c e n t l y   s t u c k   t o   f r i e n d l y   i n t e r v i e w s   w i t h   s t a t e   t e l e v i s i o n   o u t l e t s
B u t   s i n c e   t h e   c u r r e n t   c r i s i s   w h e r e   h e   f a c e s   a   m a j o r   c h a l l e n g e   f r o m   V e n e z u e l a s   o p p o s i t i o n   w h o s e   l e a d e r   J u a n   G u a i d ó   a l s o   c l a i m s   t h e   p r e s i d e n c y   M r   M a d u r o   h a s   c o n d u c t e d   a   n u m b e r   o f   i n t e r v i e w s   w i t h   i n t e r n a t i o n a l   m e d i a   o u t l e t s   i n c l u d i n g   t h e   B B C   E u r o v i s i o n   a n d   A B C   w h i c h   a l s o   c o n d u c t e d   a n   i n t e r v i e w   w i t h   h i m   o n   M o n d a y
I n   t h e   A B C   i n t e r v i e w   M r   M a d u r o   d e f e n d e d   h i m s e l f   a g a i n s t   c r i t i c i s m   f o r   b l o c k i n g   a i d   s h i p m e n t s   w h i c h   t h e   o p p o s i t i o n   a n d   t h e   W h i t e   H o u s e   d e m a n d e d   h e   l e t   p a s s   o v e r   V e n e z u e l a s   b o r d e r s   w i t h   C o l o m b i a   a n d   B r a z i l
E v e r y t h i n g   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   g o v e r n m e n t   h a s   d o n e   i s   d o o m e d   f o r   f a i l u r e   M r   M a d u r o   s a i d   T h e y r e   t r y i n g   t o   f a b r i c a t e   a   c r i s i s   t o   j u s t i f y   p o l i t i c a l   e s c a l a t i o n   a n d   a   m i l i t a r y   i n t e r v e n t i o n   i n   V e n e z u e l a   t o   b r i n g   a   w a r   t o   S o u t h   A m e r i c a
M r   R a m o s   s a i d   h e   h a d   b e e n   s h o w i n g   i m a g e s   o f   c h i l d r e n   e a t i n g   o u t   o f   a   d u m p s t e r   t o   M r   M a d u r o   a   c o m m o n   s i g h t   i n   V e n e z u e l a   w h e r e   t h e   p r e s i d e n t   h a s   p r e s i d e d   o v e r   s h o r t a g e s   o f   f o o d   a n d   m e d i c i n e
H e   g o t   u p   f r o m   t h e   i n t e r v i e w   M r   R a m o s   s a i d   I m m e d i a t e l y   a f t e r w a r d   o n e   o f   h i s   m i n i s t e r s   J o r g e   R o d r í g u e z   c a m e   t o   s a y   t h e   i n t e r v i e w   w a s n t   a u t h o r i z e d
T h e n   M r   R a m o s   s a i d   h e   w a s   d e t a i n e d
L a t e r   o n   M o n d a y   n i g h t   M r   R a m o s   w h o   w r i t e s   a   c o l u m n   t h a t   i s   s y n d i c a t e d   b y   t h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s   L i c e n s i n g   G r o u p   t o l d   R e u t e r s   t h a t   h e   a n d   h i s   c r e w   w o u l d   b e   d e p o r t e d   o n   T u e s d a y


v i d e o

A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B e s t   o f   L a t e   N i g h t
B y   G i o v a n n i   R u s s o n e l l o
W e l c o m e   t o   B e s t   o f   L a t e   N i g h t   a   r u n d o w n   o f   t h e   p r e v i o u s   n i g h t s   h i g h l i g h t s   t h a t   l e t s   y o u   s l e e p     a n d   l e t s   u s   g e t   p a i d   t o   w a t c h   c o m e d y   I f   y o u r e   i n t e r e s t e d   i n   h e a r i n g   f r o m   T h e   T i m e s   r e g u l a r l y   a b o u t   g r e a t   T V   s i g n   u p   f o r   o u r   W a t c h i n g   n e w s l e t t e r   a n d   g e t   r e c o m m e n d a t i o n s   s t r a i g h t   t o   y o u r   i n b o x
S t e p h e n   C o l b e r t   a d m i t t e d   t h a t   h e s   h a p p y   t o   s e e   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   a n d   C o n g r e s s   a p p a r e n t l y   n e a r i n g   a   b o r d e r   s e c u r i t y   d e a l   w h i c h   w o u l d   h e l p   a v e r t   a   g o v e r n m e n t   s h u t d o w n   B u t   h e   s a i d   t h a t   h e   w i s h e d   h e   c o u l d   p r e s s   r e s e t   o n   t h e   p o l i t i c a l   c o n v e r s a t i o n
W e r e   s u p p o s e d   t o   c a r e   w h e t h e r   T r u m p   w o n   a n d   N a n c y   l o s t   o r   T r u m p   c a v e d   a n d   N a n c y s   d a n c i n g   i n   t h e   e n d   z o n e   h e   s a i d   B u t   n o t h i n g     n o t h i n g     t h a t   h a s   h a p p e n e d   i n   g o v e r n m e n t   i n   2 0 1 9   h a s   a f f e c t e d   a n y o n e   W h e r e s   t h e   i n f r a s t r u c t u r e   b i l l   W h e r e s   t h e   i m m i g r a t i o n   b i l l   W h e r e s   t h e   f i x   o n   h e a l t h   c a r e   W e   a r e   c e l e b r a t i n g     o r   s u p p o s e d   t o   b e   c e l e b r a t i n g     t h a t   t h e y r e   c l o s e   t o   a   d e a l   t o   a c h i e v e   t h e   a b s o l u t e   m i n i m u m   h a v i n g   a   g o v e r n m e n t
C o l b e r t   p o i n t e d   t o   r e p o r t s   t h a t   p r e p a r a t i o n s   f o r   a   p o s s i b l e   b o r d e r   w a l l   h a v e   a l r e a d y   d a m a g e d   b u t t e r f l y   h a b i t a t s   i n   T e x a s   H e   a r g u e d   t h a t   T r u m p   o u g h t   t o   h a v e   m o r e   s y m p a t h y   f o r   t h e   i n s e c t s
A f t e r   a l l   h e s   g o t   a   l o t   i n   c o m m o n   w i t h   b u t t e r f l i e s   T h e y r e   b o t h   f r a g i l e   c r e a t u r e s   w i t h   b r i g h t   i r i d e s c e n t   c o l o r i n g   a n d   p a p e r t h i n   s k i n   I t s   j u s t   t h a t   T r u m p   h a s   n e v e r   l e f t   t h e   l a r v a l   s t a g e     S T E P H E N   C O L B E R T
C o l b e r t   a l s o   t w e a k e d   D e m o c r a t s   a f t e r   h e   s h o w e d   a   c l i p   o f   R e p r e s e n t a t i v e   N i t a   L o w e y   i n s i s t i n g   t h a t   l a w m a k e r s   h a d   a g r e e d   t o   f u n d   a   p a r t i a l   b a r r i e r   b u t   n o t   a   w a l l
O h   n o t   a   w a l l   a   b a r r i e r   A   c l i n c h i n g   l e g a l   a r g u m e n t   f i r s t   m a d e   i n   t h e   l a n d m a r k   c a s e   P o t a t o   v   P o t a t o     S T E P H E N   C O L B E R T
J i m m y   K i m m e l   i s n t   s o   e x c i t e d   a b o u t   t h e   r e c e n t   n e w s   t h a t   a   s e q u e l   t o   t h e   f i l m   F r o z e n   w i l l   c o m e   o u t   i n   t h e   f a l l
J u s t   w h e n   t h e   B a b y   S h a r k   s o n g s   f i n a l l y   s t a r t i n g   t o   g e t   o u t   o f   o u r   h e a d s   t h e r e s   a   n e w   b a t c h   o f   F r o z e n   s o n g s   o n   t h e   w a y   F o r   t h o s e   w h o   d o n t   h a v e   k i d s   F r o z e n   i s   a   s t r e e t l e g a l   d r u g   f o r   c h i l d r e n   t h a t s   1 0   t i m e s   a s   a d d i c t i v e   a s   P a w   P a t r o l   a n d   g u m m y   w o r m s   c o m b i n e d   I n   t h i s   o n e   D i s n e y   w i l l   f i n a l l y   a n s w e r   t h e   q u e s t i o n   W h a t   i f   w e   m a d e   a   b u n c h   o f   m o n e y   a g a i n     J I M M Y   K I M M E L
T r e v o r   N o a h   i s   n o t   a t   a l l   e x c i t e d   a b o u t   H o w a r d   S c h u l t z s   m i d d l e o f t h e r o a d   p o t e n t i a l   c a n d i d a c y   H e   c r i t i c i z e d   S c h u l t z   t h e   f o r m e r   c h i e f   e x e c u t i v e   o f   S t a r b u c k s   f o r   s a y i n g   d u r i n g   a   C N N   t o w n   h a l l   t h a t   h e   d o e s n t   s e e   r a c e
I t   w o u l d   b e   l i k e   H o w   a r e   y o u   g o i n g   t o   s o l v e   b l a c k   u n e m p l o y m e n t   A n d   t h i s   g u y   w o u l d   b e   l i k e   W h a t   d o   y o u   m e a n   b l a c k   u n e m p l o y m e n t   A l l   I   s e e   i s   s t a g g e r i n g   u n e m p l o y m e n t   a m o n g   p e o p l e   n a m e d   J a m a l   A n y w a y   i t s   F e b r u a r y   s o   h a p p y   H i s t o r y   M o n t h     T R E V O R   N O A H
T o m o r r o w   i s   V a l e n t i n e s   D a y   S t   V a l e n t i n e   o f   c o u r s e   w a s   t h e   p a t r o n   s a i n t   o f   s e a s o n a l   m a r k e t i n g     S T E P H E N   C O L B E R T
T o m o r r o w   A u n t i e   A n n e s   i s   o f f e r i n g   a   s p e c i a l   o n   h e a r t s h a p e d   p r e t z e l s   I t s   a   g r e a t   d e a l   f o r   a l l   y o u   h o p e l e s s   r o m a n t i c s   t a k i n g   y o u r   d a t e s   t o   L a   G u a r d i a     J I M M Y   F A L L O N
S a m a n t h a   B e e   w e n t   t o   b a t   f o r   t h e   a m b i t i o u s   G r e e n   N e w   D e a l   p l a n   t h a t   R e p r e s e n t a t i v e   A l e x a n d r i a   O c a s i o C o r t e z   u n v e i l e d   t h i s   m o n t h
O n   C o n a n   t h e   K a y   J e w e l e r s   T i n d e r   C o l l e c t i o n   f e a t u r e d   s u c h   b e j e w e l e d   i n s c r i p t i o n s   a s   P l e a s e   D o n t   M u r d e r   M e   a n d   W h a t s   Y o u r   L a s t   N a m e
B r a d l e y   C o o p e r   t h e   d i r e c t o r   a n d   s t a r   o f   A   S t a r   I s   B o r n   w i l l   b e   o n   T h e   L a t e   S h o w   o n   T h u r s d a y   W i t h   t h e   O s c a r s   j u s t   1 0   d a y s   a w a y   a n t i c i p a t i o n   w i l l   p r o b a b l y   h a n g   i n   t h e   a i r
A u b r e y   P l a z a   w i l l   b e   h o s t i n g   t h e   F i l m   I n d e p e n d e n t   S p i r i t   A w a r d s   t h i s   m o n t h   S h e s   a   d i e h a r d   f a n   o f   i n d e p e n d e n t   c i n e m a   a n d   i s   l o o k i n g   f o r w a r d   t o   b r i n g i n g   b a c k   t h e   m o r e   i n t i m a t e   v i b e   t h a t   t h i s   a w a r d s   s h o w   h a d   b e f o r e   i t   w a s   t e l e v i s e d
P l u s   I d e a s   f o r   W h a t   t o   W a t c h   T o n i g h t
T h e   5 0   B e s t   M o v i e s   o n   N e t f l i x   R i g h t   N o w
T h e   2 5   B e s t   F i l m s   o f   t h e   2 1 s t   C e n t u r y
T h e   B e s t   M o v i e s   o n   A m a z o n   P r i m e   V i d e o   R i g h t   N o w
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   D e c l a n   W a l s h
C A I R O     P r e s i d e n t   O m a r   H a s s a n   a l B a s h i r   o f   S u d a n   i m p o s e d   a   y e a r l o n g   s t a t e   o f   e m e r g e n c y   a n d   d i s s o l v e d   t h e   f e d e r a l   a n d   s t a t e   g o v e r n m e n t s   o n   F r i d a y   i n   a n   a t t e m p t   t o   e n d   m o n t h s   o f   n a t i o n w i d e   s t r e e t   p r o t e s t s   t h a t   h a v e   s h a k e n   h i s   a u t h o r i t y   a f t e r   t h r e e   d e c a d e s   o f   r u l e
I n   a   t e l e v i s e d   a d d r e s s   b r o a d c a s t   l i v e   f r o m   t h e   p r e s i d e n t i a l   p a l a c e   i n   K h a r t o u m   M r   a l B a s h i r   d e c l a r e d   t h e   s t a t e   o f   e m e r g e n c y   d i s b a n d e d   t h e   f e d e r a l   g o v e r n m e n t   a n d   r e p l a c e d   t h e   s t a t e   g o v e r n o r s   w i t h   m i l i t a r y   g e n e r a l s
M r   a l B a s h i r   a l s o   s a i d   h e   w a s   p a u s i n g   i f   n o t   e n d i n g   h i s   e f f o r t   t o   a m e n d   S u d a n s   c o n s t i t u t i o n   s o   h e   c o u l d   r u n   f o r   a   t h i r d   t e r m   o f   o f f i c e   w h e n   t h e   c u r r e n t   o n e   e n d s   i n   2 0 2 0
R e u t e r s   c i t i n g   a   p r e s i d e n t i a l   s t a t e m e n t   r e p o r t e d   F r i d a y   n i g h t   t h a t   M r   a l B a s h i r   h a d   a p p o i n t e d   a   c a r e t a k e r   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   l e a v i n g   t h e   c u r r e n t   d e f e n s e   f o r e i g n   a n d   j u s t i c e   m i n i s t e r s   i n   p l a c e
I n   h i s   s p e e c h   h e   a c k n o w l e d g e d   t h e   e c o n o m i c   h a r d s h i p   t h a t   t r i g g e r e d   t h e   f i r s t   p r o t e s t s   i n   D e c e m b e r   b u t   s a i d   t h e   p r o t e s t   m o v e m e n t   h a d   b e e n   h i j a c k e d   b y   e l e m e n t s   w i t h   a g e n d a s   t o   a c h i e v e   z e r o   s u m   s c e n a r i o s
M r   a l B a s h i r   w h o   i s   w a n t e d   b y   t h e   I n t e r n a t i o n a l   C r i m i n a l   C o u r t   o n   c h a r g e s   o f   w a r   c r i m e s   h a s   r u l e d   S u d a n   w i t h   a n   i r o n   f i s t   f o r   d e c a d e s   a n d   t h e   i m m e d i a t e   i m p l i c a t i o n s   o f   t h e   s t a t e   o f   e m e r g e n c y   w e r e   u n c l e a r   I t   s e e m e d   t o   s i g n a l   a   h a r d e n i n g   o f   h i s   a t t i t u d e   t o w a r d   t h e   p r o t e s t s   w h i c h   h a v e   b e e n   l e d   b y   y o u n g   p r o f e s s i o n a l s   a n g e r e d   b y   t h e   e c o n o m i c   d e c a y   a n d   c o r r u p t i o n   t h a t   h a v e   b e c o m e   h a l l m a r k s   o f   M r   a l B a s h i r s   r u l e
T h e   d e m o n s t r a t i o n s   f i r s t   b e g a n   o n   D e c   1 9   i n   t h e   t o w n   o f   A t b a r a   a n d   w e r e   f o c u s e d   o n   t h e   s o a r i n g   b r e a d   p r i c e s   T h e y   q u i c k l y   g r e w   i n t o   a   m o v e m e n t   c a l l i n g   f o r   t h e   o u s t e r   o f   t h e   p r e s i d e n t   w i t h   n e a r   d a i l y   p r o t e s t s   s p r e a d i n g   t o   c i t i e s   a c r o s s   t h e   c o u n t r y
T h e   p r o t e s t e r s   c o m e   f r o m   a c r o s s   S u d a n e s e   s o c i e t y   i n c l u d i n g   s e c t i o n s   o f   a   s h r i n k i n g   u p p e r   m i d d l e   c l a s s   t h a t   h a s   w i t h e r e d   w i t h   t h e   c o u n t r y s   p r e c i p i t o u s   e c o n o m i c   s l i d e   S o a r i n g   f u e l   p r i c e s   h a v e   c a u s e d   f a c t o r i e s   t o   c l o s e   a n d   y o u t h   e m p l o y m e n t   s t a n d s   a t   a b o u t   2 7   p e r c e n t   a c c o r d i n g   t o   W o r l d   B a n k   e s t i m a t e s
O u r   c o u n t r y   i s   p a s s i n g   t h r o u g h   a   d i f f i c u l t   a n d   c o m p l i c a t e d   p h a s e   i n   o u r   n a t i o n a l   h i s t o r y   M r   a l B a s h i r   s a i d   i n   h i s   s p e e c h   o n   F r i d a y
H e   h a s   b l a m e d   e x t e r n a l   f a c t o r s   f o r   t h e   c o l l a p s e   b u t   p r o t e s t e r s   s a y   i t   s t e m s   f r o m   d e c a d e s   o f   k l e p t o c r a t i c   i n c o m p e t e n t   r u l e   T h e i r   f r e q u e n t   c h a n t   d u r i n g   m a r c h e s     b e f o r e   r i o t   p o l i c e   a r r i v e   w i t h   t e a r   g a s   a n d   s o m e t i m e s   b u l l e t s     i s   J u s t   f a l l   t h a t   i s   a l l
P r o t e s t   l e a d e r s   s a y   t h a t   m o r e   t h a n   1 0 0 0   p e o p l e   h a v e   b e e n   a r r e s t e d   i n   a   c r a c k d o w n   l e d   b y   t h e   f e a r e d   N a t i o n a l   I n t e l l i g e n c e   a n d   S e c u r i t y   S e r v i c e   I n t e r n e t   a c c e s s   h a s   b e e n   r e s t r i c t e d   i n   a n   e f f o r t   t o   b l o c k   s o c i a l   m e d i a   p o s t s   u s e d   b y   t h e   m o s t l y   y o u n g   p r o t e s t e r s   t o   o r g a n i z e   d e m o n s t r a t i o n s
T h e   g o v e r n m e n t   h a s   s a i d   t h a t   3 1   p e o p l e   h a v e   d i e d   i n   p r o t e s t r e l a t e d   v i o l e n c e   H u m a n   R i g h t s   W a t c h   h a s   p u t   t h e   t o l l   a t   5 1   p e o p l e   k i l l e d   s i n c e   m i d D e c e m b e r
O n   F r i d a y   M r   a l B a s h i r   s t u m b l e d   s e v e r a l   t i m e s   a s   h e   r e a d   h i s   s p e e c h   I n   a n   a t t e m p t   t o   m o l l i f y   t h e   p r o t e s t e r s   h e   o f f e r e d   p r a y e r s   f o r   t h o s e   k i l l e d   a n d   a n n o u n c e d   p l a n s   f o r   e c o n o m i c   r e f o r m   u n d e r   t h e   n e w   g o v e r n m e n t   w h i c h   h a s   y e t   t o   b e   f u l l y   f o r m e d   H e   i n v i t e d   t h e   o p p o s i t i o n   t o   m o v e   f o r w a r d   a n d   e n g a g e   i n   d i a l o g u e   r e g a r d i n g   t h e   c u r r e n t   i s s u e s   o f   o u r   c o u n t r y
I n   r e c e n t   y e a r s   M r   a l B a s h i r   h a s   f i r e d   o r   m a r g i n a l i z e d   p o t e n t i a l   r i v a l s   f o r   p o w e r   a n d   l i t t l e   i n   h i s   l o n g   r u l e   s u g g e s t s   a   n e w   w i l l i n g n e s s   f o r   r a p p r o c h e m e n t
M r   a l B a s h i r   c a m e   t o   p o w e r   i n   a   m i l i t a r y   c o u p   i n   1 9 8 9   a n d   s i n c e   t h e n   S u d a n   h a s   e n d u r e d   f a m i n e s   A m e r i c a n   m i s s i l e   s t r i k e s   i s o l a t i o n   a n d   a   c i v i l   w a r   t h a t   l e d   t o   t h e   i n d e p e n d e n c e   o f   S o u t h   S u d a n   i n   2 0 1 1   T w o   y e a r s   b e f o r e   t h a t   t h e   I n t e r n a t i o n a l   C r i m i n a l   C o u r t   o r d e r e d   M r   a l B a s h i r   a r r e s t e d   o n   c h a r g e s   h e   p l a y e d   a n   e s s e n t i a l   r o l e   i n   a t r o c i t i e s   i n c l u d i n g   m u r d e r   r a p e   t o r t u r e   a n d   d i s p l a c e m e n t   o f   c i v i l i a n s   d u r i n g   t h e   c o n f l i c t   i n   t h e   D a r f u r   r e g i o n   o f   S u d a n
I n   2 0 1 7   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   l i f t e d   s a n c t i o n s   o n   S u d a n   b u t   t h e   r e l i e f   f a i l e d   t o   s t e m   a   s t e e p   e c o n o m i c   d e c l i n e   M r   a l B a s h i r   h a s   l o b b i e d   t h e   S t a t e   D e p a r t m e n t   t o   r e m o v e   S u d a n   f r o m   a   l i s t   o f   s t a t e   s p o n s o r s   o f   t e r r o r i s m   a   f a c t o r   i n   t h e   c o u n t r y s   e c o n o m i c   w o e s
B e f o r e   t h e   t e l e v i s e d   a d d r e s s   S u d a n s   i n t e l l i g e n c e   c h i e f   S a l a h   A b d a l l a h   G o s h   t o l d   r e p o r t e r s   t h a t   M r   a l B a s h i r   w o u l d   a n n o u n c e   h i s   r e s i g n a t i o n   a s   h e a d   o f   t h e   r u l i n g   N a t i o n a l   C o n g r e s s   P a r t y
B u t   M r   a l B a s h i r   s a i d   n o t h i n g   i n   t h e   s p e e c h   a b o u t   h i s   p a r t y   a n d   a c t i v i s t s   f e a r   t h e   s t a t e   o f   e m e r g e n c y   c o u l d   p r e s a g e   e v e n   h a r s h e r   m e a s u r e s   a g a i n s t   t h e i r   m o v e m e n t
I n   t h e   i m m e d i a t e   a f t e r m a t h   o f   h i s   s p e e c h   h o w e v e r   d e m o n s t r a t o r s   a p p e a r e d   u n d e t e r r e d   V i d e o s   p o s t e d   o n   s o c i a l   m e d i a   s u g g e s t e d   t h a t   p r o t e s t s   a g a i n s t   h i s   r u l e   c o n t i n u e d   i n   K h a r t o u m



A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   C e y l a n   Y e g i n s u
B r i t a i n s   c h a n c e l l o r   o f   t h e   E x c h e q u e r   P h i l i p   H a m m o n d   d e l i v e r e d   a   s t a t e m e n t   o n   t h e   c o u n t r y s   e c o n o m y   o n   W e d n e s d a y   t h a t   w a s   s o m e t h i n g   o f   a   f i s c a l   n o n e v e n t   w i t h   t h e   s p e c t e r   o f   B r i t a i n s   w i t h d r a w a l   f r o m   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n   o r   B r e x i t   h a n g i n g   o v e r   e v e r y   e c o n o m i c   p r o j e c t i o n
M r   H a m m o n d s   m a i n   m e s s a g e     t h a t   h e   c o u l d   d e l i v e r   m o r e   f u n d s   f o r   p u b l i c   s p e n d i n g   o n l y   i f   t h e   B r i t i s h   P a r l i a m e n t   r e a c h e s   a   d e a l   o n   B r e x i t     c a m e   a   d a y   a f t e r   l a w m a k e r s   r e j e c t e d   P r i m e   M i n i s t e r   T h e r e s a   M a y s   p l a n   b y   a   l a r g e   m a r g i n
W i t h   M r s   M a y   s i t t i n g   b e h i n d   h i m   M r   H a m m o n d   c o n s p i c u o u s l y   c a l l e d   f o r   l a w m a k e r s   t o   p u t   a s i d e   o u r   d i f f e r e n c e s   a n d   s e e k   a   c o m p r o m i s e   o n   B r e x i t   s o m e t h i n g   n e i t h e r   t h e   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r   n o r   t h e   L a b o u r   l e a d e r   J e r e m y   C o r b y n   h a s   y e t   a c c e p t e d
H i g h e r   u n e m p l o y m e n t   l o w e r   w a g e s   h i g h e r   p r i c e s   i n   t h e   s h o p s   T h a t   i s   n o t   w h a t   t h e   B r i t i s h   p e o p l e   v o t e d   f o r   i n   J u n e   2 0 1 6   h e   s a i d   r e f e r r i n g   t o   t h e   2 0 1 6   r e f e r e n d u m   t o   l e a v e   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n
H e r e   a r e   f i v e   t a k e a w a y s   f r o m   t h e   c h a n c e l l o r s   s p r i n g   s t a t e m e n t
T h e   u n c e r t a i n t y   s u r r o u n d i n g   B r e x i t   a n d   a   s l o w d o w n   i n   t h e   g l o b a l   e c o n o m y   h a s   c u t   g r o w t h   i n   2 0 1 9   t o   1 2   p e r c e n t   f r o m   t h e   1 6   p e r c e n t   p r o j e c t e d   i n   l a s t   y e a r s   a u t u m n   b u d g e t
T h e   B r i t i s h   e c o n o m y   i s   s e t   t o   g r o w   b y   1 4   p e r c e n t   i n   2 0 2 0   a n d   b y   1 6   p e r c e n t   i n   t h e   f o l l o w i n g   t w o   y e a r s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   o f f i c i a l   f o r e c a s t s   f r o m   t h e   i n d e p e n d e n t   O f f i c e   f o r   B u d g e t   R e s p o n s i b i l i t y
O n e   b r i g h t   s p o t   i s   w a g e   g r o w t h   w h i c h   h a s   b e e n   r e v i s e d   u p w a r d   t o   a t   l e a s t   3   p e r c e n t   e a c h   y e a r   w i t h   t h e   w o r k   f o r c e   e x p a n d i n g   b y   6 0 0 0 0 0   b y   2 0 2 3   M r   H a m m o n d   s a i d
W i t h   p u b l i c   s e c t o r   b o r r o w i n g   t r e n d i n g   d o w n   M r   H a m m o n d   p l e d g e d   t o   i n c r e a s e   t h e   B r e x i t   d i v i d e n d   t o   2 6 6   b i l l i o n   p o u n d s   a b o u t   3 5   b i l l i o n   b u t   t h a t   c o m e s   w i t h   a   c a t c h   B r i t i s h   l a w m a k e r s   w o u l d   h a v e   t o   v o t e   p r o n t o   t o   l e a v e   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n   w i t h   a   d e a l
I n   a   s t a t e m e n t   t h e   O f f i c e   f o r   B u d g e t   R e s p o n s i b i l i t y   a t t r i b u t e d   t h e   i m p r o v e d   f i s c a l   c l i m a t e   t o   h i g h e r   i n c o m e   t a x   r e c e i p t s   a n d   l o w e r   t h a n   e x p e c t e d   i n t e r e s t   c o s t s
O n c e   a g a i n   M r   H a m m o n d   h e d g e d   t h e   g o o d   n e w s   w i t h   a   f a m i l i a r   c a v e a t   P a r l i a m e n t   f i r s t   h a s   t o   a g r e e   o n   a   d e a l   f o r   B r e x i t
A   s m o o t h   B r e x i t   w i l l   s e e   a   d e a l   d i v i d e n d   a n   e c o n o m i c   b o o s t   t h a t   w i l l   f r e e   u p   r e s o u r c e s   f o r   s c h o o l s   p o l i c e   a n d   s o c i a l   c a r e   a r e a s   t h a t   h a v e   s u f f e r e d   s i g n i f i c a n t l y   f r o m   o v e r   a   d e c a d e   o f   b u d g e t   c u t s   u n d e r   t h e   c o n s e r v a t i v e   g o v e r n m e n t s   a u s t e r i t y   p o l i c y
A n a l y s t s   w e r e   q u i c k   t o   p o i n t   o u t   t h a t   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   h a s   b e e n   m a k i n g   s u c h   p r o m i s e s   f o r   s o m e   t i m e   n o w   b u t   t h e   p r o m i s e d   s p e n d i n g   i n c r e a s e s   h a v e   f a i l e d   t o   m a t e r i a l i z e
T h e   r e p e a t e d   p r o m i s e   t h a t   a u s t e r i t y   i s   c o m i n g   t o   a n   e n d   w i l l   r i n g   h o l l o w   f o r   t h e   m i l l i o n s   o f   l o w   w a g e   d i s a b l e d   a n d   u n e m p l o y e d   p e o p l e   w h o   w i l l   s e e   t h e i r   s o c i a l   s e c u r i t y   a n d   t a x   c r e d i t s   f r o z e n   f o r   a n o t h e r   y e a r   f r o m   A p r i l   D r   M a r y A n n   S t e p h e n s o n   t h e   d i r e c t o r   o f   t h e   W o m e n s   B u d g e t   G r o u p   s a i d   o n   W e d n e s d a y
T h e   g o v e r n m e n t   w i l l   f u n d   f r e e   s a n i t a r y   p r o d u c t s   i n   s e c o n d a r y   s c h o o l s   a n d   c o l l e g e s   i n   E n g l a n d   i n   r e s p o n s e   t o   c o n c e r n s   t h a t   s o m e   g i r l s   a r e   m i s s i n g   s c h o o l   b e c a u s e   t h e y   c a n n o t   a f f o r d   t o   b u y   t h e i r   o w n   p r o d u c t s   M r   H a m m o n d   s a i d
T h e   a n n o u n c e m e n t   c o m e s   a f t e r   a   t w o y e a r   c a m p a i g n   s t a r t e d   b y   A m i k a   G e o r g e   1 9   w h o   h a d   r e a d   r e p o r t s   t h a t   s c h o o l g i r l s   i n   t h e   n o r t h e r n   c i t y   o f   L e e d s   w e r e   u s i n g   n e w s p a p e r   s o c k s   a n d   t o i l e t   p a p e r   b e c a u s e   t h e y   c o u l d   n o t   a f f o r d   s a n i t a r y   p r o d u c t s   a n d   w o u l d   s o m e t i m e s   m i s s   s c h o o l   t o   a v o i d   e m b a r r a s s m e n t
I t s   d e f i n i t e l y   a   r e a l l y   h u g e   n u m b e r   M s   G e o r g e   s a i d   i n   a   p h o n e   i n t e r v i e w   T h i s   i s n t   a   s m a l l   m i n o r i t y   o f   p e o p l e   t h a t   i t s   a f f e c t i n g   a t   a l l   I t s   d e f i n i t e l y   p r e v a l e n t   a n d   i t s   s o m e t h i n g   t h a t   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   n e e d s   t o   t a k e   a c t i o n   o n
K n i f e   c r i m e   w h i c h   r o s e   f o r   t h e   f o u r t h   s t r a i g h t   y e a r   i n   2 0 1 8   i s   a   h o t b u t t o n   i s s u e   t h e s e   d a y s   T o   h e l p   a d d r e s s   i t   a n   a d d i t i o n a l   1 0 0   m i l l i o n   p o u n d s   o r   1 3 0   m i l l i o n   w i l l   b e   m a d e   a v a i l a b l e   f o r   p o l i c e   f o r c e s   a c r o s s   E n g l a n d   a n d   W a l e s   t o   h e l p   t a c k l e   k n i f e   c r i m e   w h i c h   h a s   r i s e n   f o r   a   f o u r t h   c o n s e c u t i v e   y e a r
P o l i c e   f u n d i n g   i n   E n g l a n d   a n d   W a l e s   f e l l   b y   1 9   p e r c e n t   b e t w e e n   2 0 1 0 1 1   a n d   2 0 1 8 1 9   t h e   N a t i o n a l   A u d i t   O f f i c e   s a y s
T h e   e x t r a   f u n d i n g   w i l l   b e   s p e n t   o n   a d d i t i o n a l   o v e r t i m e   t a r g e t e d   o n   k n i f e   c r i m e   a n d   n e w   v i o l e n t   c r i m e   r e d u c t i o n   u n i t s   M r   H a m m o n d   s a i d
T h e   a n n o u n c e m e n t   f a l l s   s h o r t   o f   t h e   2 0 0   t o   3 0 0   m i l l i o n   p o u n d s   a b o u t   2 6 0   m i l l i o n   t o   3 9 0   m i l l i o n   r e q u e s t e d   b y   t h e   N a t i o n a l   P o l i c e   C h i e f s   C o u n c i l   l a s t   w e e k




A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S o p h i s t i c a t e d   s u r v e i l l a n c e   o n c e   t h e   d o m a i n   o f   w o r l d   p o w e r s   i s   i n c r e a s i n g l y   a v a i l a b l e   o n   t h e   p r i v a t e   m a r k e t   S m a l l e r   c o u n t r i e s   a r e   s e i z i n g   o n   t h e   t o o l s     s o m e t i m e s   f o r   d a r k e r   p u r p o s e s
N S O   a   p r i v a t e   c o m p a n y   b a s e d   i n   H e r z l i y a   I s r a e l   h a s   h i r e d   f o r m e r   g o v e r n m e n t   h a c k e r s   t o   p l y   t h e i r   t r a d e s   f o r   f o r e i g n   g o v e r n m e n t s C r e d i t C r e d i t C o r i n n a   K e r n   f o r   T h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   M a r k   M a z z e t t i   A d a m   G o l d m a n   R o n e n   B e r g m a n   a n d   N i c o l e   P e r l r o t h
T h e   m a n   i n   c h a r g e   o f   S a u d i   A r a b i a s   r u t h l e s s   c a m p a i g n   t o   s t i f l e   d i s s e n t   w e n t   s e a r c h i n g   f o r   w a y s   t o   s p y   o n   p e o p l e   h e   s a w   a s   t h r e a t s   t o   t h e   k i n g d o m   H e   k n e w   w h e r e   t o   g o   a   s e c r e t i v e   I s r a e l i   c o m p a n y   o f f e r i n g   t e c h n o l o g y   d e v e l o p e d   b y   f o r m e r   i n t e l l i g e n c e   o p e r a t i v e s
I t   w a s   l a t e   2 0 1 7   a n d   S a u d   a l Q a h t a n i     t h e n   a   t o p   a d v i s e r   t o   S a u d i   A r a b i a s   p o w e r f u l   c r o w n   p r i n c e     w a s   t r a c k i n g   S a u d i   d i s s i d e n t s   a r o u n d   t h e   w o r l d   p a r t   o f   h i s   e x t e n s i v e   s u r v e i l l a n c e   e f f o r t s   t h a t   u l t i m a t e l y   l e d   t o   t h e   k i l l i n g   o f   t h e   j o u r n a l i s t   J a m a l   K h a s h o g g i   I n   m e s s a g e s   e x c h a n g e d   w i t h   e m p l o y e e s   f r o m   t h e   c o m p a n y   N S O   G r o u p   M r   a l Q a h t a n i   s p o k e   o f   g r a n d   p l a n s   t o   u s e   i t s   s u r v e i l l a n c e   t o o l s   t h r o u g h o u t   t h e   M i d d l e   E a s t   a n d   E u r o p e   l i k e   T u r k e y   a n d   Q a t a r   o r   F r a n c e   a n d   B r i t a i n
T h e   S a u d i   g o v e r n m e n t s   r e l i a n c e   o n   a   f i r m   f r o m   I s r a e l   a n   a d v e r s a r y   f o r   d e c a d e s   o f f e r s   a   g l i m p s e   o f   a   n e w   a g e   o f   d i g i t a l   w a r f a r e   g o v e r n e d   b y   f e w   r u l e s   a n d   o f   a   g r o w i n g   e c o n o m y   n o w   v a l u e d   a t   1 2   b i l l i o n   o f   s p i e s   f o r   h i r e
T o d a y   e v e n   t h e   s m a l l e s t   c o u n t r i e s   c a n   b u y   d i g i t a l   e s p i o n a g e   s e r v i c e s   e n a b l i n g   t h e m   t o   c o n d u c t   s o p h i s t i c a t e d   o p e r a t i o n s   l i k e   e l e c t r o n i c   e a v e s d r o p p i n g   o r   i n f l u e n c e   c a m p a i g n s   t h a t   w e r e   o n c e   t h e   p r e s e r v e   o f   m a j o r   p o w e r s   l i k e   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   a n d   R u s s i a   C o r p o r a t i o n s   t h a t   w a n t   t o   s c r u t i n i z e   c o m p e t i t o r s   s e c r e t s   o r   a   w e a l t h y   i n d i v i d u a l   w i t h   a   b e e f   a g a i n s t   a   r i v a l   c a n   a l s o   c o m m a n d   i n t e l l i g e n c e   o p e r a t i o n s   f o r   a   p r i c e   a k i n   t o   p u r c h a s i n g   o f f t h e s h e l f   e l e m e n t s   o f   t h e   N a t i o n a l   S e c u r i t y   A g e n c y   o r   t h e   M o s s a d
F o r   m o r e   s t o r i e s   a b o u t   t h e   c h a n g i n g   n a t u r e   o f   w a r f a r e   s i g n   u p   f o r   t h e   w e e k l y   A t   W a r   n e w s l e t t e r
N S O   a n d   a   c o m p e t i t o r   t h e   E m i r a t i   f i r m   D a r k M a t t e r   e x e m p l i f y   t h e   p r o l i f e r a t i o n   o f   p r i v a t i z e d   s p y i n g   A   m o n t h s l o n g   e x a m i n a t i o n   b y   T h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s   b a s e d   o n   i n t e r v i e w s   w i t h   c u r r e n t   a n d   f o r m e r   h a c k e r s   f o r   g o v e r n m e n t s   a n d   p r i v a t e   c o m p a n i e s   a n d   o t h e r s   a s   w e l l   a s   a   r e v i e w   o f   d o c u m e n t s   u n c o v e r e d   s e c r e t   s k i r m i s h e s   i n   t h i s   b u r g e o n i n g   w o r l d   o f   d i g i t a l   c o m b a t
T h e   f i r m s   h a v e   e n a b l e d   g o v e r n m e n t s   n o t   o n l y   t o   h a c k   c r i m i n a l   e l e m e n t s   l i k e   t e r r o r i s t   g r o u p s   a n d   d r u g   c a r t e l s   b u t   a l s o   i n   s o m e   c a s e s   t o   a c t   o n   d a r k e r   i m p u l s e s   t a r g e t i n g   a c t i v i s t s   a n d   j o u r n a l i s t s   H a c k e r s   t r a i n e d   b y   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   s p y   a g e n c i e s   c a u g h t   A m e r i c a n   b u s i n e s s p e o p l e   a n d   h u m a n   r i g h t s   w o r k e r s   i n   t h e i r   n e t   C y b e r m e r c e n a r i e s   w o r k i n g   f o r   D a r k M a t t e r   t u r n e d   a   p r o s a i c   h o u s e h o l d   i t e m   a   b a b y   m o n i t o r   i n t o   a   s p y   d e v i c e
T h e   F B I   i s   i n v e s t i g a t i n g   c u r r e n t   a n d   f o r m e r   A m e r i c a n   e m p l o y e e s   o f   D a r k M a t t e r   f o r   p o s s i b l e   c y b e r c r i m e s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   f o u r   p e o p l e   f a m i l i a r   w i t h   t h e   i n v e s t i g a t i o n   T h e   i n q u i r y   i n t e n s i f i e d   a f t e r   a   f o r m e r   N S A   h a c k e r   w o r k i n g   f o r   t h e   c o m p a n y   g r e w   c o n c e r n e d   a b o u t   i t s   a c t i v i t i e s   a n d   c o n t a c t e d   t h e   F B I   R e u t e r s   r e p o r t e d
N S O   a n d   D a r k M a t t e r   a l s o   c o m p e t e   f i e r c e l y   w i t h   e a c h   o t h e r   p a y i n g   h a n d s o m e l y   t o   l u r e   t o p   h a c k i n g   t a l e n t   f r o m   I s r a e l   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   a n d   o t h e r   c o u n t r i e s   a n d   s o m e t i m e s   p i l f e r i n g   r e c r u i t s   f r o m   e a c h   o t h e r   T h e   T i m e s   f o u n d
T h e   M i d d l e   E a s t   i s   t h e   e p i c e n t e r   o f   t h i s   n e w   e r a   o f   p r i v a t i z e d   s p y i n g   B e s i d e s   D a r k M a t t e r   a n d   N S O   t h e r e   i s   B l a c k   C u b e   a   p r i v a t e   c o m p a n y   r u n   b y   f o r m e r   M o s s a d   a n d   I s r a e l i   m i l i t a r y   i n t e l l i g e n c e   o p e r a t i v e s   t h a t   g a i n e d   n o t o r i e t y   a f t e r   H a r v e y   W e i n s t e i n   t h e   d i s g r a c e d   H o l l y w o o d   m o g u l   h i r e d   i t   t o   d i g   u p   d i r t   o n   h i s   a c c u s e r s   P s y G r o u p   a n   I s r a e l i   c o m p a n y   s p e c i a l i z i n g   i n   s o c i a l   m e d i a   m a n i p u l a t i o n   w o r k e d   f o r   R u s s i a n   o l i g a r c h s   a n d   i n   2 0 1 6   p i t c h e d   t h e   T r u m p   c a m p a i g n   o n   a   p l a n   t o   b u i l d   a n   o n l i n e   a r m y   o f   b o t s   a n d   a v a t a r s   t o   s w i n g   R e p u b l i c a n   d e l e g a t e   v o t e s
L a s t   y e a r   a   w e a l t h y   A m e r i c a n   b u s i n e s s m a n   E l l i o t t   B r o i d y   s u e d   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   o f   Q a t a r   a n d   a   N e w   Y o r k   f i r m   r u n   b y   a   f o r m e r   C I A   o f f i c e r   G l o b a l   R i s k   A d v i s o r s   f o r   w h a t   h e   s a i d   w a s   a   s o p h i s t i c a t e d   b r e a c h   o f   h i s   c o m p a n y   t h a t   l e d   t o   t h o u s a n d s   o f   h i s   e m a i l s   s p i l l i n g   i n t o   p u b l i c   M r   B r o i d y   s a i d   t h a t   t h e   o p e r a t i o n   w a s   m o t i v a t e d   b y   h a r d n o s e d   g e o p o l i t i c s   A t   t h e   b e g i n n i n g   o f   t h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   h e   h a d   p u s h e d   t h e   W h i t e   H o u s e   t o   a d o p t   a n t i Q a t a r   p o l i c i e s   a t   t h e   s a m e   t i m e   h i s   f i r m   w a s   p o i s e d   t o   r e c e i v e   h u n d r e d s   o f   m i l l i o n s   o f   d o l l a r s   i n   c o n t r a c t s   f r o m   t h e   U n i t e d   A r a b   E m i r a t e s   t h e   a r c h r i v a l   t o   Q a t a r
A   j u d g e   d i s m i s s e d   M r   B r o i d y s   l a w s u i t   b u t   s u s p i c i o n s   h a v e   g r o w n   t h a t   Q a t a r   h a d   a   h a n d   i n   o t h e r   o p e r a t i o n s   i n c l u d i n g   t h e   h a c k i n g   a n d   l e a k i n g   o f   t h e   e m a i l s   o f   Y o u s e f   a l O t a i b a   t h e   i n f l u e n t i a l   E m i r a t i   a m b a s s a d o r   i n   W a s h i n g t o n
T h e   r a p i d   e x p a n s i o n   o f   t h i s   g l o b a l   h i g h t e c h   b a t t l e g r o u n d   w h e r e   a r m i e s   o f   c y b e r m e r c e n a r i e s   c l a s h   h a s   p r o m p t e d   w a r n i n g s   o f   a   d a n g e r o u s   a n d   c h a o t i c   f u t u r e
E v e n   t h e   s m a l l e s t   c o u n t r y   o n   a   v e r y   l o w   b u d g e t   c a n   h a v e   a n   o f f e n s i v e   c a p a b i l i t y   o r   i n i t i a t e   o n l i n e   a t t a c k s   a g a i n s t   a d v e r s a r i e s   s a i d   R o b e r t   J o h n s t o n   f o u n d e r   o f   t h e   c y b e r s e c u r i t y   f i r m   A d l u m i n   a n d   a   k e y   i n v e s t i g a t o r   o n   R u s s i a s   2 0 1 6   h a c k i n g   o f   t h e   D e m o c r a t i c   N a t i o n a l   C o m m i t t e e   Q a t a r   a n d   U A E   a r e   g o i n g   a f t e r   e a c h   o t h e r   a n d   t h a t   w a r   i s   g e t t i n g   v e r y   v e r y   b l o o d y
T h e   b a r r i e r s   t o   e n t r y   i n   t h i s   s p a c e   a r e   g e t t i n g   l o w e r   a n d   l o w e r
B e f o r e   N S O   h e l p e d   t h e   S a u d i   g o v e r n m e n t   t r a c k   i t s   a d v e r s a r i e s   o u t s i d e   t h e   k i n g d o m   a n d   h e l p e d   t h e   M e x i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t   h u n t   d r u g   k i n g p i n s   a n d   e a r n e d   h u n d r e d s   o f   m i l l i o n s   o f   d o l l a r s   w o r k i n g   f o r   d o z e n s   o f   c o u n t r i e s   o n   s i x   c o n t i n e n t s   t h e   c o m p a n y   c o n s i s t e d   o f   t w o   h i g h   s c h o o l   f r i e n d s   i n   n o r t h e r n   I s r a e l   w i t h   o n e   r e l a t i v e l y   m u n d a n e   i d e a
U s i n g   t e c h n o l o g y   d e v e l o p e d   b y   g r a d u a t e s   o f   I n t e l l i g e n c e   U n i t   8 2 0 0     I s r a e l s   e q u i v a l e n t   o f   t h e   N S A   S h a l e v   H u l i o   a n d   O m r i   L a v i e   s t a r t e d   a   c o m p a n y   i n   2 0 0 8   t h a t   a l l o w e d   c e l l p h o n e   f i r m s   t o   g a i n   r e m o t e   a c c e s s   t o   t h e i r   c u s t o m e r s   d e v i c e s   t o   p e r f o r m   m a i n t e n a n c e
W o r d   s p r e a d   t o   W e s t e r n   s p y   s e r v i c e s   w h o s e   o p e r a t i v e s   s p o t t e d   a n   o p p o r t u n i t y   A t   t h e   t i m e   A m e r i c a n   a n d   E u r o p e a n   o f f i c i a l s   w e r e   w a r n i n g   t h a t   A p p l e   F a c e b o o k   G o o g l e   a n d   o t h e r   t e c h   g i a n t s   w e r e   d e v e l o p i n g   t e c h n o l o g i e s   t h a t   a l l o w e d   c r i m i n a l s   a n d   t e r r o r i s t s   t o   c o m m u n i c a t e   t h r o u g h   e n c r y p t e d   c h a n n e l s   i n d e c i p h e r a b l e   t o   i n t e l l i g e n c e   a n d   l a w   e n f o r c e m e n t   a g e n c i e s   T h e y   c a l l e d   t h e   p h e n o m e n o n   g o i n g   d a r k
M r   H u l i o   a n d   M r   L a v i e   o f f e r e d   a   w a y   t o   c i r c u m v e n t   t h i s   p r o b l e m   b y   h a c k i n g   t h e   e n d   p o i n t s   o f   t h e   c o m m u n i c a t i o n s     t h e   p h o n e s   t h e m s e l v e s     a f t e r   t h e   d a t a   w e r e   d e c r y p t e d
B y   2 0 1 1   N S O   h a d   d e v e l o p e d   i t s   f i r s t   p r o t o t y p e   a   m o b i l e   s u r v e i l l a n c e   t o o l   t h e   c o m p a n y   c a l l e d   P e g a s u s   L i k e   i t s   n a m e s a k e   t h e   G r e e k   m y t h o l o g i c a l   w i n g e d   h o r s e   N S O s   t o o l   c o u l d   d o   s o m e t h i n g   s e e m i n g l y   i m p o s s i b l e   c o l l e c t   v a s t   a m o u n t s   o f   p r e v i o u s l y   i n a c c e s s i b l e   d a t a   f r o m   s m a r t p h o n e s   i n   t h e   a i r   w i t h o u t   l e a v i n g   a   t r a c e     i n c l u d i n g   p h o n e   c a l l s   t e x t s   e m a i l s   c o n t a c t s   l o c a t i o n   a n d   a n y   d a t a   t r a n s m i t t e d   o v e r   a p p s   l i k e   F a c e b o o k   W h a t s A p p   a n d   S k y p e
O n c e   t h e s e   c o m p a n i e s   i n v a d e   y o u r   p h o n e   t h e y   o w n   i t   Y o u r e   j u s t   c a r r y i n g   i t   a r o u n d   A v i   R o s e n   o f   K a y m e r a   T e c h n o l o g i e s   a n   I s r a e l i   c y b e r d e f e n s e   c o m p a n y   s a i d   o f   N S O   a n d   i t s   c o m p e t i t o r s
T h e   c o m p a n y   s o o n   h a d   i t s   f i r s t   c l i e n t   f o r   P e g a s u s   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   o f   M e x i c o   w h i c h   w a s   e n g a g e d   i n   a   c r a c k d o w n   o n   d r u g   c a r t e l s   B y   2 0 1 3   N S O   h a d   i n s t a l l e d   P e g a s u s   a t   t h r e e   M e x i c a n   a g e n c i e s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   e m a i l s   o b t a i n e d   b y   T h e   T i m e s   T h e   e m a i l s   e s t i m a t e d   t h a t   a l t o g e t h e r   t h e   f i r m   h a d   s o l d   t h e   M e x i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t   1 5   m i l l i o n   w o r t h   o f   h a r d w a r e   a n d   s o f t w a r e   M e x i c o   w a s   p a y i n g   t h e   f i r m   s o m e   7 7   m i l l i o n   t o   t r a c k   a   w i d e   a r r a y   o f   t a r g e t s   e v e r y   m o v e   a n d   s w i p e   o f   t h e i r   p h o n e
N S O   p r o d u c t s   w e r e   i m p o r t a n t   t o   M e x i c o s   w a r   a g a i n s t   t h e   c a r t e l s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   f o u r   p e o p l e   f a m i l i a r   w i t h   h o w   t h e   M e x i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t   u s e d   P e g a s u s   s p e a k i n g   o n   t h e   c o n d i t i o n   o f   a n o n y m i t y   t o   d i s c u s s   i n t e l l i g e n c e   m a t t e r s   M e x i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   h a v e   c r e d i t e d   P e g a s u s   a s   i n s t r u m e n t a l   i n   h e l p i n g   t r a c k   a n d   c a p t u r e   E l   C h a p o   t h e   f a m e d   d r u g   k i n g p i n   w h o   w a s   c o n v i c t e d   l a s t   m o n t h   i n   N e w   Y o r k   a n d   s e n t e n c e d   t o   l i f e   i n   a   m a x i m u m s e c u r i t y   p r i s o n
S o o n   e n o u g h   N S O   w a s   s e l l i n g   t o   g o v e r n m e n t s   t h r o u g h o u t   t h e   w o r l d   w i t h   t h e   c o m p a n y   c l a i m i n g   c l i e n t s   o n   e v e r y   c o n t i n e n t   e x c e p t   A n t a r c t i c a   N S O   p r o d u c t s     p a r t i c u l a r l y   P e g a s u s     h e l p e d   b r e a k   u p   t e r r o r i s t   c e l l s   a n d   a i d e d   i n v e s t i g a t i o n s   i n t o   o r g a n i z e d   c r i m e   a n d   c h i l d   a b d u c t i o n   E u r o p e a n   i n t e l l i g e n c e   a n d   l a w   e n f o r c e m e n t   o f f i c i a l s   s a i d   i n   i n t e r v i e w s
N S O s   f i r s t   c l i e n t   t h e   M e x i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t   w a s   a l s o   u s i n g   t h e   h a c k i n g   t o o l s   f o r   d a r k e r   p u r p o s e s     a s   p a r t   o f   a   b r o a d e r   g o v e r n m e n t   a n d   i n d u s t r y   s u r v e i l l a n c e   e f f o r t   T h e   g o v e r n m e n t   u s e d   N S O   p r o d u c t s   t o   t r a c k   a t   l e a s t   t w o   d o z e n   j o u r n a l i s t s   g o v e r n m e n t   c r i t i c s   i n t e r n a t i o n a l   i n v e s t i g a t o r s   l o o k i n g   i n t o   t h e   u n s o l v e d   d i s a p p e a r a n c e   o f   4 3   s t u d e n t s   e v e n   b a c k e r s   o f   a   s o d a   t a x   a c c o r d i n g   t o   T i m e s   i n v e s t i g a t i o n s   a n d   r e s e a r c h   b y   C i t i z e n   L a b   p a r t   o f   t h e   U n i v e r s i t y   o f   T o r o n t o
T h o s e   t a r g e t s   w e r e   s u b j e c t e d   t o   a   s t r e a m   o f   h a r a s s i n g   t e x t   m e s s a g e s   t h a t   c o n t a i n e d   m a l w a r e   S o m e   m e s s a g e s   w a r n e d   t h a t   t h e i r   s p o u s e s   w e r e   h a v i n g   a f f a i r s   o t h e r s   t h a t   a   r e l a t i v e   h a d   p a s s e d   a w a y   I n   o n e   c a s e   w h e n   g o v e r n m e n t   o f f i c i a l s   w e r e   n o t   a b l e   t o   i n f i l t r a t e   t h e   p h o n e   o f   a   j o u r n a l i s t   t h e y   t a r g e t e d   h e r   1 6 y e a r o l d   s o n s
T h o u g h   N S O   s a y s   i t   s e l l s   i t s   s e r v i c e s   f o r   c r i m i n a l   a n d   a n t i t e r r o r i s m   i n v e s t i g a t i o n s   n o n e   o f   t h e   M e x i c a n s   k n o w n   t o   h a v e   b e e n   t a r g e t e d   w e r e   s u s p e c t e d   i n   c r i m i n a l   o r   t e r r o r i s m   i n v e s t i g a t i o n s
N S O   t e c h n o l o g y   h a s   h e l p e d   s t o p   v i c i o u s   c r i m e s   a n d   d e a d l y   t e r r o r i s t   a t t a c k s   a r o u n d   t h e   w o r l d   t h e   c o m p a n y   s a i d   i n   a   s t a t e m e n t   W e   d o   n o t   t o l e r a t e   m i s u s e   o f   o u r   p r o d u c t s   a n d   w e   r e g u l a r l y   v e t   a n d   r e v i e w   o u r   c o n t r a c t s   t o   e n s u r e   t h e y   a r e   n o t   b e i n g   u s e d   f o r   a n y t h i n g   o t h e r   t h a n   t h e   p r e v e n t i o n   o r   i n v e s t i g a t i o n   o f   t e r r o r i s m   a n d   c r i m e
T h e   c o m p a n y   h a s   e s t a b l i s h e d   a n   e t h i c s   c o m m i t t e e   w h i c h   d e c i d e s   w h e t h e r   i t   c a n   s e l l   i t s   s p y w a r e   t o   c o u n t r i e s   b a s e d   o n   t h e i r   h u m a n   r i g h t s   r e c o r d s   a s   r e p o r t e d   b y   g l o b a l   o r g a n i z a t i o n s   l i k e   t h e   W o r l d   B a n k s   h u m a n   c a p i t a l   i n d e x   a n d   o t h e r   i n d i c a t o r s   N S O   w o u l d   n o t   s e l l   t o   T u r k e y   f o r   e x a m p l e   b e c a u s e   o f   i t s   p o o r   r e c o r d   o n   h u m a n   r i g h t s   c u r r e n t   a n d   f o r m e r   e m p l o y e e s   s a i d
B u t   o n   t h e   W o r l d   B a n k   i n d e x   T u r k e y   r a n k s   h i g h e r   t h a n   M e x i c o   a n d   S a u d i   A r a b i a   b o t h   N S O   c l i e n t s   A   s p o k e s m a n   f o r   I s r a e l s   M i n i s t r y   o f   D e f e n s e   w h i c h   n e e d s   t o   a u t h o r i z e   a n y   c o n t r a c t   t h a t   N S O   w i n s   f r o m   a   f o r e i g n   g o v e r n m e n t   d e c l i n e d   t o   a n s w e r   q u e s t i o n s   a b o u t   t h e   c o m p a n y
A   l a w s u i t   a l l e g e d     l a s t   y e a r   t h a t   i n   t h e   m o n t h s   b e f o r e   h i s   d e a t h   S a u d i   A r a b i a   u s e d   N S O   p r o d u c t s   t o   s p y   o n   M r   K h a s h o g g i   t h e   W a s h i n g t o n   P o s t   c o l u m n i s t   s t r a n g l e d   a n d   d i s m e m b e r e d   i n   O c t o b e r   b y   S a u d i   o p e r a t i v e s   i n s i d e   t h e   k i n g d o m s   c o n s u l a t e   i n   I s t a n b u l   N S O   d e n i e s   t h e   a c c u s a t i o n   S e v e r a l   o f   M r   K h a s h o g g i s   c l o s e s t   c o n t a c t s   w e r e   t a r g e t s   o f   N S O   h a c k i n g   t o o l s   C i t i z e n   L a b   r e p o r t e d   W i t h o u t   a c c e s s   t o   M r   K h a s h o g g i s   d e v i c e s   r e s e a r c h e r s   h a v e   n o t   c o n f i r m e d   w h e t h e r   h e   w a s   a   d i r e c t   t a r g e t   o f   N S O   s u r v e i l l a n c e
E v e n   i n   c a s e s   o f   b l a t a n t   a b u s e   N S O   c o n t i n u e d   t o   r e n e w   c o n t r a c t s   w i t h   i t s   g o v e r n m e n t   c l i e n t s   I n   2 0 1 3   f o r   i n s t a n c e   N S O   i n k e d   i t s   f i r s t   d e a l   w i t h   t h e   U n i t e d   A r a b   E m i r a t e s   W i t h i n   a   y e a r   t h e   E m i r a t i   g o v e r n m e n t   w a s   c a u g h t   i n s t a l l i n g   N S O   s p y w a r e   o n   t h e   m o b i l e   p h o n e   o f   A h m e d   M a n s o o r   a   p r o m i n e n t   h u m a n   r i g h t s   a c t i v i s t
A f t e r   r e c e i v i n g   a n   o n s l a u g h t   o f   t e x t   m e s s a g e s   c o n t a i n i n g   l i n k s   M r   M a n s o o r     a   f r e q u e n t   t a r g e t   o f   E m i r a t i   s u r v e i l l a n c e     g r e w   s u s p i c i o u s   a n d   p a s s e d   t h e   t e x t s   t o   s e c u r i t y   r e s e a r c h e r s   w h o   d e t e r m i n e d   t h e   l i n k s   w e r e   N S O   l u r e s   t h a t   e x p l o i t e d   v u l n e r a b i l i t i e s   i n   A p p l e   s o f t w a r e   t o   t a k e   o v e r   M r   M a n s o o r s   p h o n e   I t   w a s   r e s e a r c h e r s   s a i d   t h e   m o s t   s o p h i s t i c a t e d   s p y w a r e   t h e y   h a d   e v e r   u n c o v e r e d   o n   a   m o b i l e   d e v i c e
T h e   d i s c o v e r y   f o r c e d   A p p l e   t o   r e l e a s e   a n   e m e r g e n c y   p a t c h   B u t   b y   t h e n   M r   M a n s o o r   h a d   a l r e a d y   b e e n   f i r e d   f r o m   h i s   j o b   h a d   h i s   p a s s p o r t   c o n f i s c a t e d   h i s   c a r   s t o l e n   h i s   e m a i l   h a c k e d   h i s   l o c a t i o n   t r a c k e d   h i s   b a n k   a c c o u n t   e m p t i e d   o f   1 4 0 0 0 0   a n d   w a s   b e a t e n   b y   s t r a n g e r s   t w i c e   i n   t h e   s a m e   w e e k
Y o u   s t a r t   t o   b e l i e v e   y o u r   e v e r y   m o v e   i s   w a t c h e d   Y o u r   f a m i l y   s t a r t s   t o   p a n i c   h e   s a i d   i n   a n   i n t e r v i e w   b e f o r e   h e   w a s   a r r e s t e d   i n   2 0 1 7   I   h a v e   t o   l i v e   w i t h   t h a t
E v e n   a f t e r   t h e   U A E   w a s   c a u g h t   s p y i n g   o n   M r   M a n s o o r   l e a k e d   i n v o i c e s   s h o w e d   t h a t   N S O   c o n t i n u e d   t o   s e l l   t h e   E m i r a t i s   m i l l i o n s   o f   d o l l a r s   w o r t h   o f   s p y w a r e   a n d   s e r v i c e s   A s   f o r   M r   M a n s o o r   h e   w a s   s e n t e n c e d   t o   1 0   y e a r s   i n   p r i s o n   f o r   d a m a g i n g   n a t i o n a l   u n i t y   a n d   i s   b e i n g   h e l d   i n   s o l i t a r y   c o n f i n e m e n t   w h e r e   h i s   h e a l t h   i s   d e t e r i o r a t i n g
A   f l u r r y   o f   n e w s   r e p o r t s   f o l l o w e d   a b o u t   c o u n t r i e s   u s i n g   N S O   p r o d u c t s   t o   s p y   o n   t h e i r   c i t i z e n s   p r o m p t i n g   t h e   c o m p a n y   t o   t e m p o r a r i l y   r e b r a n d   i t s e l f   Q   a f t e r   J a m e s   B o n d s   g a d g e t   g u r u
D e s p i t e   t h e   b a d   n e w s   c o v e r a g e   N S O s   v a l u e   c o n t i n u e d   t o   s k y r o c k e t
F r a n c i s c o   P a r t n e r s   a   p r i v a t e   e q u i t y   f i r m   p u r c h a s e d   a   7 0   p e r c e n t   s t a k e   i n   N S O   f o r   1 3 0   m i l l i o n   i n   2 0 1 3   L a s t   m o n t h   N S O s   c o f o u n d e r s   r a i s e d   e n o u g h   m o n e y   t o   b u y   b a c k   a   m a j o r i t y   s t a k e   i n   N S O   a t   a   v a l u a t i o n   o f   j u s t   u n d e r   1   b i l l i o n   T h e   L o n d o n   p r i v a t e   e q u i t y   f i r m   N o v a l p i n a   C a p i t a l   b a c k e d   t h e   d e a l     m a k i n g   i t s   m a j o r   i n v e s t o r s   i n c l u d i n g   t h e   O r e g o n   s t a t e   e m p l o y e e s   p e n s i o n   f u n d   a n d   A l a s k a s   s o v e r e i g n   w e a l t h   f u n d   p a r t   o w n e r s   o f   N S O   a c c o r d i n g   t o   p u b l i c   r e c o r d s
T h e   p r o l i f e r a t i o n   o f   c o m p a n i e s   t r y i n g   t o   r e p l i c a t e   N S O s   s u c c e s s   a n d   c o m p e t e   i n   a n   e s t i m a t e d   1 2   b i l l i o n   m a r k e t   f o r   s o c a l l e d   l a w f u l   i n t e r c e p t   s p y w a r e   h a s   s e t   o f f   a   f i e r c e   c o m p e t i t i o n   t o   h i r e   A m e r i c a n   I s r a e l i   a n d   R u s s i a n   v e t e r a n s   o f   t h e   w o r l d s   m o s t   s o p h i s t i c a t e d   i n t e l l i g e n c e   a g e n c i e s     a n d   f o r   t h e   c o m p a n i e s   t o   p o a c h   t a l e n t   f r o m   o n e   a n o t h e r
I n   l a t e   2 0 1 7   N S O   e x e c u t i v e s   g r e w   c o n c e r n e d   a b o u t   a   s p a t e   o f   r e s i g n a t i o n s   P r i v a t e   d e t e c t i v e s   h i r e d   t o   i n v e s t i g a t e   s o o n   f o u n d   t h e m s e l v e s   o n   t h e   M e d i t e r r a n e a n   i s l a n d   o f   C y p r u s   t a i l i n g   a   g r o u p   o f   f o r m e r   N S O   e m p l o y e e s     a l l   v e t e r a n s   o f   I s r a e l s   I n t e l l i g e n c e   U n i t   8 2 0 0     g o i n g   b a c k   a n d   f o r t h   t o   w o r k   a t   a   r e s e a r c h   f a c i l i t y
T h e   b u i l d i n g   w a s   o w n e d   b y   a   c o m p a n y   a f f i l i a t e d   w i t h   D a r k M a t t e r   a n   E m i r a t i   f i r m   t h a t   h a d   q u i e t l y   h i r e d   t h e   I s r a e l i s   t o   d e v e l o p   t e c h n o l o g i e s   f o r   t h e   U A E   t o   c o n d u c t   c y b e r o p e r a t i o n s   a g a i n s t   p e r c e i v e d   e n e m i e s   a t   h o m e   a n d   a b r o a d
D a r k M a t t e r   a l s o   h a s   o f f i c e s   i n s i d e   a   g l e a m i n g   t o w e r   o n   t h e   h i g h w a y   c o n n e c t i n g   A b u   D h a b i   t o   D u b a i   t h e   s a m e   b u i l d i n g   t h a t   h o u s e s   t h e   U A E s   S i g n a l s   I n t e l l i g e n c e   A g e n c y   t h e   E m i r a t e s   v e r s i o n   o f   t h e   N S A
T h i s   i s   n o t   b y   a c c i d e n t   D a r k M a t t e r   i s   e f f e c t i v e l y   a n   a r m   o f   t h e   s t a t e   t h a t   h a s   w o r k e d   d i r e c t l y   w i t h   E m i r a t i   i n t e l l i g e n c e   o p e r a t i v e s   o n   n u m e r o u s   m i s s i o n s   s u c h   a s   h a c k i n g   g o v e r n m e n t   m i n i s t r i e s   i n   T u r k e y   Q a t a r   a n d   I r a n   a n d   s p y i n g   o n   d i s s i d e n t s   i n s i d e   t h e   E m i r a t e s
D a r k M a t t e r   h a s   o r i g i n s   i n   a n o t h e r   c o m p a n y   a n   A m e r i c a n   f i r m   c a l l e d   C y b e r P o i n t   t h a t   y e a r s   a g o   w o n   c o n t r a c t s   f r o m   t h e   U A E   t o   h e l p   p r o t e c t   t h e   E m i r a t e s   f r o m   c o m p u t e r   a t t a c k s   C y b e r P o i n t   o b t a i n e d   a   l i c e n s e   f r o m   t h e   A m e r i c a n   g o v e r n m e n t   t o   w o r k   f o r   t h e   E m i r a t i s   a   n e c e s s a r y   s t e p   i n t e n d e d   t o   r e g u l a t e   t h e   e x p o r t   o f   m i l i t a r y   a n d   i n t e l l i g e n c e   s e r v i c e s   M a n y   o f   t h e   c o m p a n y s   e m p l o y e e s   h a d   w o r k e d   o n   h i g h l y   c l a s s i f i e d   p r o j e c t s   f o r   t h e   N S A   a n d   o t h e r   A m e r i c a n   i n t e l l i g e n c e   a g e n c i e s
B u t   t h e   E m i r a t i s   h a d   o u t s i z e   a m b i t i o n s   a n d   r e p e a t e d l y   p u s h e d   C y b e r P o i n t   e m p l o y e e s   t o   e x c e e d   t h e   b o u n d a r i e s   o f   t h e   c o m p a n y s   A m e r i c a n   l i c e n s e   C y b e r P o i n t   r e b u f f e d   r e q u e s t s   b y   E m i r a t i   i n t e l l i g e n c e   o p e r a t i v e s   t o   t r y   t o   c r a c k   e n c r y p t i o n   c o d e s   a n d   t o   h a c k   w e b s i t e s   h o u s e d   o n   A m e r i c a n   s e r v e r s     o p e r a t i o n s   t h a t   w o u l d   h a v e   r u n   a f o u l   o f   A m e r i c a n   l a w
S o   i n   2 0 1 5   t h e   E m i r a t i s   f o u n d e d   D a r k M a t t e r     f o r m i n g   a   c o m p a n y   n o t   b o u n d   b y   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   l a w     a n d   l u r e d   a t   l e a s t   a   h a l f d o z e n   A m e r i c a n   e m p l o y e e s   o f   C y b e r P o i n t   t o   j o i n   M a r c   B a i e r   a   f o r m e r   o f f i c i a l   w i t h   t h e   N S A   u n i t   t h a t   c a r r i e s   o u t   a d v a n c e d   o f f e n s i v e   c y b e r o p e r a t i o n s   b e c a m e   o n e   o f   t h e   f i r m s   t o p   e x e c u t i v e s
D a r k M a t t e r   e m p l o y e d   s e v e r a l   o t h e r   f o r m e r   N S A   a n d   C I A   o f f i c e r s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   a   r o s t e r   o f   e m p l o y e e s   o b t a i n e d   b y   T h e   T i m e s   s o m e   m a k i n g   s a l a r i e s   o f   h u n d r e d s   o f   t h o u s a n d s   o f   d o l l a r s   a   y e a r
T h e   a s s u m p t i o n   u s e d   t o   b e   t h a t   w h e n   y o u   l e f t   t h e   N S A   y o u d   n e v e r   d o   t h a t   k i n d   o f   o f f e n s i v e   w o r k   a g a i n   N o w   c l e a r l y   t h e r e   i s   a   m a r k e t   f o r   i t   s a i d   M r   J o h n s t o n   t h e   s e c u r i t y   e x p e r t   H e   w o r k e d   i n   t h e   m i l i t a r y s   C y b e r   C o m m a n d   w h i c h   w o r k s   c l o s e l y   w i t h   t h e   N S A   w h i l e   s e r v i n g   i n   t h e   M a r i n e s
T h e   N S A   s h o u l d   c o n s i d e r   i t   t h e i r   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   t o   e n s u r e   t h a t   t h e   h a c k i n g   t e c h n i q u e s   t a u g h t   t o   e m p l o y e e s   c a n n o t   b e   u s e d   a g a i n s t   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   h e   s a i d
T h e   c o m p a n y   d i d   n o t   r e s p o n d   t o   a   r e q u e s t   t o   c o m m e n t   n o r   d i d   a   s p o k e s m a n   f o r   t h e   E m i r a t i   g o v e r n m e n t   A s k e d   w h e t h e r   t h e   m i n i s t r y   h a d   g i v e n   a   l i c e n s e   f o r   t h e   f o r m e r   I s r a e l i   i n t e l l i g e n c e   o p e r a t i v e s   w o r k i n g   f o r   D a r k M a t t e r   a   s p o k e s m a n   f o r   t h e   I s r a e l i   M i n i s t r y   o f   D e f e n s e   d e c l i n e d   t o   c o m m e n t   A   l a w y e r   f o r   M r   B a i e r   a l s o   d e c l i n e d   t o   c o m m e n t
C u r r e n t   a n d   f o r m e r   e m p l o y e e s   o f   t h e   s p y   a g e n c y   h a v e   a   l i f e l o n g   o b l i g a t i o n   t o   p r o t e c t   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   s e c r e t s   s a i d   G r e g   J u l i a n   a   s p o k e s m a n   f o r   t h e   N S A   T h e y   a r e   a l s o   r e q u i r e d   t o   r e p o r t   e m p l o y m e n t   o r   r e p r e s e n t a t i o n   w i t h   f o r e i g n   g o v e r n m e n t s   f o r   t w o   y e a r s   a f t e r   t h e y   l e a v e   t h e   a g e n c y   h e   s a i d
B e s i d e s   i t s   b r e a c h e s   o f   f o r e i g n   g o v e r n m e n t   m i n i s t r i e s   D a r k M a t t e r   a l s o   b r o k e   i n t o   G m a i l   Y a h o o   a n d   H o t m a i l   a c c o u n t s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   f o r m e r   e m p l o y e e s   D a r k M a t t e r   o p e r a t i v e s   p o s e d   a s   f a m i l y   a n d   f r i e n d s   o f   t h e   p e o p l e   t h e y   t a r g e t e d   t o   l u r e   t h e m   i n t o   o p e n i n g   e m a i l s   t h a t   c o n t a i n e d   m a l w a r e
F o r m e r   e m p l o y e e s   s a i d   t h a t   D a r k M a t t e r   t a r g e t e d   M r   M a n s o o r   h a c k i n g   h i s   c h i l d s   b a b y   m o n i t o r   t o   e a v e s d r o p   o n   h i s   f a m i l y   I n   a n o t h e r   o p e r a t i o n   t h e   c o m p a n y s   o p e r a t i v e s   p u r s u e d   R o r i   D o n a g h y   a   B r i t i s h   a c t i v i s t   c r i t i c a l   o f   t h e   E m i r a t i   g o v e r n m e n t   a n d   i t s   h u m a n   r i g h t s   r e c o r d   w h o   h a d   a l s o   b e e n   a   t a r g e t   o f   N S O   s p y w a r e   D a r k M a t t e r   a l s o   t a r g e t e d   C i t i z e n   L a b   t h e   C a n a d i a n   r e s e a r c h   o r g a n i z a t i o n   a   f o r m e r   e m p l o y e e   s a i d
D a r k M a t t e r   t o l d   t h e   e m p l o y e e s   t h a t   s p y i n g   o n   A m e r i c a n   c i t i z e n s   w o u l d   b e   o f f   l i m i t s   b u t   i t   p r o v e d   t o   b e   a n   e m p t y   p l e d g e
I n   o n e   o p e r a t i o n   n o t   p r e v i o u s l y   r e p o r t e d   a   D a r k M a t t e r   s u b s i d i a r y   b e g a n   a n   e x p a n s i v e   e f f o r t   t o   i n t e r c e p t   c e l l u l a r   c o m m u n i c a t i o n s   i n   Q a t a r   o c c a s i o n a l l y   c a t c h i n g   c o m m u n i c a t i o n s   o f   A m e r i c a n s   i n   t h e   s u r v e i l l a n c e   n e t   i n   l a t e   2 0 1 5   O n e   A m e r i c a n   w o r k i n g   o n   t h e   p r o j e c t   s a i d   h e   r a i s e d   c o n c e r n s   w i t h   h i s   s u p e r i o r s   i n c l u d i n g   a   f o r m e r   C I A   o f f i c e r   i n   c h a r g e   o f   t h e   e f f o r t   T h e   A m e r i c a n   a l o n g   w i t h   a n o t h e r   w a s   p u l l e d   o f f   t h e   p r o j e c t   a n d   a s k e d   t o   s i g n   a   n o n d i s c l o s u r e   a g r e e m e n t
I n   r e p e a t e d   i n s t a n c e s   D a r k M a t t e r   c o l l e c t e d   i n f o r m a t i o n   a b o u t   A m e r i c a n s   a   s e c o n d   f o r m e r   e m p l o y e e   s a i d   M o s t   o f   t h o s e   c a s e s   i n v o l v e d   A m e r i c a n s   w h o   w o r k e d   f o r   f o r e i g n   o r g a n i z a t i o n s     i n c l u d i n g   h u m a n   r i g h t s   g r o u p s     t h a t   D a r k M a t t e r   t a r g e t e d   b e c a u s e   t h e y   h a d   b e e n   c r i t i c a l   o f   t h e   E m i r a t i   g o v e r n m e n t   t h e   f o r m e r   e m p l o y e e   s a i d
D a r k M a t t e r   o p e r a t i v e s   w o u l d   o c c a s i o n a l l y   c o l l e c t   p a s s p o r t   i n f o r m a t i o n   a p p l i c a t i o n s   o r   r é s u m é s   b e l o n g i n g   t o   A m e r i c a n s   w h o   a p p l i e d   t o   w o r k   a t   t h e s e   o r g a n i z a t i o n s   O n e   f o r m e r   e m p l o y e e   s a i d   t h a t   t h e   c o l l e c t i o n   w a s   a c c i d e n t a l   a n d   t h e   r e c o r d s   w e r e   e x p u n g e d   f r o m   t h e   c o m p a n y s   d a t a b a s e s
I n   2 0 1 7   a   f o r m e r   N S A   h a c k e r   b e g a n   p r o v i d i n g   F B I   a g e n t s   w i t h   i n f o r m a t i o n   a b o u t   t h e   c o m p a n y s   a c t i v i t i e s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   t h e   R e u t e r s   r e p o r t   F o r e i g n   P o l i c y   f i r s t   r e p o r t e d   t h e   F B I   i n v e s t i g a t i o n
T h e   i n f o r m a n t   L o r i   S t r o u d   s a i d   s h e   h a d   b e c o m e   c o n c e r n e d   a b o u t   t h e   c o m p a n y s   s u r v e i l l a n c e   o f   A m e r i c a n s   S h e   l a t e r   l e f t   t h e   f i r m   a l o n g   w i t h   s e v e r a l   o t h e r   A m e r i c a n s   b e c a u s e   t h e y   c o u l d   n o t   b e   s u r e   t h a t   D a r k M a t t e r   w a s   n o t   d e l i b e r a t e l y   t a r g e t i n g   c i t i z e n s   S o o n   F B I   a g e n t s   b e g a n   s t o p p i n g   A m e r i c a n   e m p l o y e e s   a t   a i r p o r t s   a s   t h e y   e n t e r e d   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   a n d   q u e s t i o n e d   t h e m   a b o u t   D a r k M a t t e r s   o p e r a t i o n s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   f o r m e r   c o m p a n y   e m p l o y e e s
T h e   J u s t i c e   D e p a r t m e n t s   c a s e   r u n   b y   p r o s e c u t o r s   i n   W a s h i n g t o n   f o c u s e s   o n   i n t e r n e t   f r a u d   a n d   t h e   p o s s i b l y   i l l e g a l   t r a n s f e r   o f   s p y i n g   t e c h n o l o g y   t o   a   f o r e i g n   c o u n t r y
B u t   t h e   p r o s e c u t o r s   f a c e   h e a d w i n d s   i n c l u d i n g   d i p l o m a t i c   c o n c e r n s   a b o u t   j e o p a r d i z i n g   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   r e l a t i o n s h i p   w i t h   t h e   U A E     a n   i n f l u e n t i a l   c o u n t r y   t h a t   h a s   d e v e l o p e d   c l o s e   t i e s   t o   t h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n     a n d   w o r r i e s   a b o u t   h o w   p u r s u i n g   t h e   c a s e   c o u l d   e x p o s e   e m b a r r a s s i n g   d e t a i l s   a b o u t   t h e   e x t e n t   o f   t h e   c o o p e r a t i o n   b e t w e e n   D a r k M a t t e r   a n d   A m e r i c a n   i n t e l l i g e n c e   a g e n c i e s
A n d   t h e r e   i s   t h e   r e a l i t y   t h a t   A m e r i c a n   l a w s   g o v e r n i n g   t h i s   n e w   a g e   o f   d i g i t a l   w a r f a r e   a r e   m u r k y   o u t d a t e d   a n d   i l l e q u i p p e d   t o   a d d r e s s   r a p i d   t e c h n o l o g i c a l   a d v a n c e s   T h e   r u l e s   g o v e r n i n g   w h a t   A m e r i c a n   i n t e l l i g e n c e   a n d   m i l i t a r y   p e r s o n n e l   c a n   a n d   c a n n o t   p r o v i d e   t o   f o r e i g n   g o v e r n m e n t s   w e r e   m e a n t   t o   k e e p   a   l e a s h   o n   2 0 t h c e n t u r y   w a r f a r e     s e l l i n g   m i s s i l e s   o r   p l a n e s   o v e r s e a s   o r   t r a i n i n g   f o r e i g n   f o r c e s   o n   A r m y   t a c t i c s
B u t   t h e y   d o   n o t   a d d r e s s   h a c k i n g   s k i l l s   t h a t   c a n   b e   h o n e d   i n   f r o n t   o f   a   l a p t o p   o r   a t   t h e   w o r l d s   m o s t   a d v a n c e d   i n t e l l i g e n c e   a g e n c i e s   a n d   s o l d   t o   t h e   h i g h e s t   b i d d e r
T h e   w o r s t   p a r t   o f   i t   i s   t h e   w e a p o n s   a r e   e a s i e r   t o   g e t   s a i d   B r i a n   B a r t h o l o m e w   t h e   p r i n c i p a l   s e c u r i t y   r e s e a r c h e r   a t   K a s p e r s k y   L a b   a   d i g i t a l   s e c u r i t y   c o m p a n y
Y o u v e   g o t   a   l o t   o f   p e o p l e   e n t e r i n g   t h e   a r e n a   t h a t   a r e   n e w   a n d   d o n t   p l a y   b y   t h e   s a m e   r u l e s   h e   s a i d   I t s   l i k e   p u t t i n g   a   m i l i t a r y g r a d e   w e a p o n   i n   t h e   h a n d s   o f   s o m e o n e   o f f   t h e   s t r e e t
A n   e a r l i e r   v e r s i o n   o f   t h i s   a r t i c l e   m i s a t t r i b u t e d   t h e   s o u r c e   o f   a   v a l u a t i o n   f o r   t h e   m a r k e t   o f   s o c a l l e d   l a w f u l   i n t e r c e p t   s p y w a r e   T h e   1 2   b i l l i o n   m a r k e t   e s t i m a t e   c i t e d   b y   M o o d y s   o r i g i n a t e d   f r o m   t h e   c o m p a n y   N S O   n o t   M o o d y s
S c o t t   S h a n e   c o n t r i b u t e d   r e p o r t i n g




A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   A s h l e y   P o w e r s
O n e   d a y   i n   2 0 1 5   B a r b a r a   L a v e n d e r s   h u s b a n d   r e t u r n e d   f r o m   a   U F O   c o n f e r e n c e   a n d   h a n d e d   h e r   a   b u s i n e s s   c a r d   I t   b o r e   a   r e d   t h e a t e r c u r t a i n   b a c k g r o u n d   a   v i n t a g e   m i c r o p h o n e   a n d   g o l d a n d w h i t e   l e t t e r i n g   t h a t   r e a d   S e a n   D a v i d   M o r t o n   R a d i o   H o s t   P u b l i c   S p e a k e r   A u t h o r   D i r e c t o r   S c r e e n   W r i t e r   A c t o r   T h e   p o l y m a t h i c   M r   M o r t o n   J e f f   L a v e n d e r   t o l d   h i s   w i f e   w a s   U F O   r o y a l t y
M r   M o r t o n   h a d   s p e n t   y e a r s   w h i s k i n g   E T o b s e s s e d   t o u r i s t s   t o   A r e a   5 1   f o r   9 9   a   p o p   t h e n   l e v e r a g e d   h i s   f o l l o w i n g   i n t o   s t i n t s   o n   t h e   w e e h o u r s   c o n s p i r a c y   s h o w   C o a s t   t o   C o a s t   A M     a t   o n e   p o i n t   t h e   n a t i o n s   N o   3   t a l k r a d i o   p r o g r a m   H e   d a b b l e d   i n   o t h e r   f r i n g e   a r t s   s u c h   a s   r e m o t e   v i e w i n g   a n d   p s y c h i c   p r e d i c t i o n s   a b o u t   e a r t h q u a k e s   e l e c t i o n s   a n d   t h e   s t o c k   m a r k e t   B u t   b y   t h e   t i m e   M r   L a v e n d e r   s a w   h i m   t a l k   i n   S o u t h e r n   C a l i f o r n i a   M r   M o r t o n   h a d   s h i f t e d   t o   s o m e t h i n g   t r u l y   f a n t a s t i c a l   i n s t a n t   d e b t   r e l i e f
H e d   b e e n   p e d d l i n g   a   w o r k s h o p   c a l l e d   T h e   S o v e r e i g n   F a c t o r   T h e   R e v o l u t i o n   S t a r t s   W i t h   Y o u     a   n o d   t o   w h a t   i s   k n o w n   a s   t h e   s o v e r e i g n   c i t i z e n s   m o v e m e n t   A   l o o s e   n e t w o r k   o f   p e r h a p s   t e n s   o f   t h o u s a n d s   o f   f a r r i g h t   a n t i g o v e r n m e n t   e x t r e m i s t s   s o v e r e i g n s   s h a r e   c e r t a i n   c o n s p i r a t o r i a l   b e l i e f s   a n d   s o m e t i m e s   a   d e s i r e   t o   p r o f i t   o f f   a   g o v e r n m e n t   w h o s e   l e g i t i m a c y   t h e y   d e n y
D o   y o u   r e a l i z e   r e a d   M r   M o r t o n s   w o r k s h o p   d e s c r i p t i o n   y o u   a r e   A L L   c o n s i d e r e d   I n c o m p e t e n t   W a r d s   o f   t h e   S t a t e   R e s i d e n t s   a n d   t h e   C h a t t e l   P r o p e r t y   o f   t h e   U S   F e d e r a l   g o v e r n m e n t   u n t i l   y o u   d e c l a r e   y o u r   E m a n c i p a t i o n   L e a r n   a l l   t h e   s e c r e t s   a b o u t   h o w   t o   g e t   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   o f f   y o u r   b a c k   a n d   o u t   o f   y o u r   l i f e   o n c e   a n d   f o r   a l l   O n e   o f   t h e s e   s e c r e t s   w a s   c a l l e d   t h e   b o n d   p r o c e s s   B y   s u b m i t t i n g   t h e   r i g h t   s e t   o f   p a p e r s   M r   M o r t o n   s a i d   y o u   c o u l d   w i p e   o u t   y o u r   m o r t g a g e   t a x   b i l l s   a n d   s t u d e n t   l o a n s
M r   M o r t o n s   m e s s a g e   h a d   a p p e a l   b e y o n d   t h e   t i n f o i l h a t   c r o w d   I n   A m e r i c a   a f t e r   t h e   G r e a t   R e c e s s i o n   p l e n t y   o f   p e o p l e   w i t h   u p s i d e d o w n   m o r t g a g e s   a n d   s t u d e n t   d e b t   w e r e   i n c l i n e d   t o   b e l i e v e   a n y o n e   o f f e r i n g   h e l p   M s   L a v e n d e r   l i s t e n i n g   t o   h e r   h u s b a n d   r e c a p   t h e   w o r k s h o p   w a s   i n t r i g u e d   Y e a r s   e a r l i e r   s h e d   b o r r o w e d   4 8 0 0 0   t o   h e l p   h e r   s o n   a t t e n d   c o l l e g e   S h e   a n d   h e r   h u s b a n d   h a d   w o r k e d   i n   t h e   m o r t g a g e   i n d u s t r y   i n   S o u t h e r n   C a l i f o r n i a   f o r   d e c a d e s   b u t   e d u c a t i o n a l   d e b t   w a s   u n f a m i l i a r   t e r r a i n   I   h a d   n e v e r   g o n e   t o   c o l l e g e   m y s e l f   s h e   t o l d   m e   r e c e n t l y   I   t o o k   o u t   a   l o a n   I   s h o u l d n t   h a v e   M s   L a v e n d e r   l o s t   h e r   j o b   a n d   d e f e r r e d   t h e   p a y m e n t s   a n d   t h e   i n t e r e s t   k e p t   p i l i n g   u p   B y   t h e   t i m e   s h e   h e l d   M r   M o r t o n s   b u s i n e s s   c a r d   i n   h e r   h a n d s   s h e   o w e d   7 0 0 0 0
S h e   r e a l i z e d   a   U F O   g a t h e r i n g   w a s   a n   u n u s u a l   v e n u e   f o r   d e b t r e l i e f   a d v i c e   H e r   h u s b a n d s   a n n u a l   g e t t o g e t h e r s   w i t h   t h e   X F i l e s   c r o w d   w e r e   a   h o b b y   f o r   h i m   a n d   a   g o o d n a t u r e d   p u n c h   l i n e   f o r   t h e i r   f a m i l y   B u t   t h e   s i z e   a n d   i n t r a c t a b i l i t y   o f   h e r   l o a n   b a l a n c e   w e i g h e d   o n   h e r   a l s o   s h e   t r u s t e d   h e r   h u s b a n d   a n d   h e   t h o u g h t   M r   M o r t o n s   b o n d   p r o c e s s   w a s   w o r t h   c h e c k i n g   o u t   S h e   t o l d   m e   I   t h i n k   h e   p r o b a b l y   w a s   e n t i c e d   b y   i t   b e c a u s e   i t   m i g h t   h a v e   b e e n   a   l i t t l e   t i n y   k i c k   i n   t h e   p a n t s   t o   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t
A s   t h e   L a v e n d e r s   c a m e   t o   d i s c o v e r   s o v e r e i g n   f r a u d s t e r s   a r e   t h e   s n a k e o i l   s a l e s m e n   o f   o u r   t i m e   P e d d l i n g   a   b o u q u e t   o f   g r i f t s   a s   v a r i e d   a s   t a x   f r a u d   a n d   r e a l   e s t a t e   s c a m s   t h e y   p r e y   o n   o u r   s u s p i c i o n   o f   i n s t i t u t i o n s   f i n a n c i a l   i l l i t e r a c y   g r e e d   a n d   d e s p a i r   Y o u   d o n t   e v e n   h a v e   t o   b u y   i n t o   s o v e r e i g n   d o g m a   t o   g e t   s w i n d l e d   Y o u   j u s t   n e e d   t o   b e   a s   M s   L a v e n d e r   w a s   i n   d e b t   F r o m   1 9 9 0   t o   2 0 1 3   f a r r i g h t   e x t r e m i s t s   c a r r i e d   o u t   m o r e   t h a n   6 0 0   f i n a n c i a l   s c h e m e s   t h a t   r e s u l t e d   i n   c r i m i n a l   c h a r g e s   a c c o r d i n g   t o   t h e   r e s e a r c h e r s   w h o   r u n   t h e   U S   E x t r e m i s t   F i n a n c i a l   C r i m e   D a t a b a s e   w h i c h   i s   a f f i l i a t e d   w i t h   t h e   N a t i o n a l   C o n s o r t i u m   f o r   t h e   S t u d y   o f   T e r r o r i s m   a n d   R e s p o n s e s   t o   T e r r o r i s m   a n d   i s   t h e   o n l y   c l e a r i n g h o u s e   o f   i t s   k i n d
T h a t   a d d s   u p   t o     c o n s e r v a t i v e l y     p u b l i c   l o s s e s   o f   1   b i l l i o n   T h e   m a j o r i t y   o f   p e r p e t r a t o r s   w e r e   e i t h e r   s o v e r e i g n s   o r   t h e i r   i d e o l o g i c a l   c o u s i n s   t a x   d e f i e r s   F r a u d   i s   t o   t h e m   w h a t   c r o s s b u r n i n g   i s   t o   w h i t e   s u p r e m a c i s t s   a n   e x p r e s s i o n   o f   b e l i e f
S o v e r e i g n s   w h o   s o m e t i m e s   c a l l   t h e m s e l v e s   f r e e m e n   o r   s t a t e   c i t i z e n s   h a v e   n o   f o u n d a t i o n a l   d o c u m e n t   b u t   b r o a d l y   t h e y   s u b s c r i b e   t o   a n   a l t e r n a t e   v e r s i o n   o f   A m e r i c a n   h i s t o r y   T h e   t a l e   c a n   v a r y   f r o m   s o v e r e i g n   t o   s o v e r e i g n   b u t   i t   g o e s   r o u g h l y   l i k e   t h i s   A t   s o m e   p o i n t   a   c o r p o r a t i o n   s e c r e t l y   u s u r p e d   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   g o v e r n m e n t   t h e n   w e n t   b a n k r u p t   a n d   s o u g h t   a i d   f r o m   i n t e r n a t i o n a l   b a n k e r s   A s   c o l l a t e r a l   t h e   c o r p o r a t i o n   o f f e r e d   t h e   f i n a n c i e r s     u s   A s   s o v e r e i g n s   t e l l   i t   y o u r   b i r t h   c e r t i f i c a t e   a n d   S o c i a l   S e c u r i t y   c a r d   a r e   n o t   b e n i g n   d o c u m e n t s   b u t   c o n t r a c t s   t h a t   e n s l a v e   y o u
T h e r e   i s   t h e y   b e l i e v e   a   p a t h w a y   t o   f r e e d o m   R e n o u n c e   t h e s e   c o n t r a c t s   o r   o t h e r w i s e   a s s e r t   y o u r   s o v e r e i g n t y   M r   M o r t o n   s a i d   h e   o n c e   t o l d   t h e   S o c i a l   S e c u r i t y   A d m i n i s t r a t i o n   I   d o n t   w a n t   t h i s   n u m b e r   T h e n   n o   o n e     n o t   t h e   t a x m a n   n o t   t h e   p o l i c e     c a n   t e l l   y o u   w h a t   t o   d o   N o t   a l l   s o v e r e i g n s   a r e   c o n   m e n   b u t   t h e i r   b e l i e f   s y s t e m   l e n d s   i t s e l f   t o   d e c e i t   Y o u   m i g h t   d e c l a r e   y o u r s e l f   a   d i p l o m a t   f r o m   a   n o n e x i s t e n t   c o u n t r y   M r   M o r t o n   r e p r e s e n t e d   t h e   R e p u b l i c   o f   N e w   L e m u r i a   a n d   t h e   D o m i n i o n   o f   M e l c h i z e d e k   O r   s t a r t   a   f a k e   N a t i v e   A m e r i c a n   t r i b e   O r   b l o w   o f f   a   c o u r t   c a s e   b e c a u s e   t h e   A m e r i c a n   f l a g   i n   t h e   c o u r t r o o m   h a s   g o l d   f r i n g e   S o m e   s o v e r e i g n s   h a v e   e v e n   l a s h e d   o u t   v i o l e n t l y   a t   l a w   e n f o r c e m e n t   o f f i c e r s   w h i c h   i s   w h y   t h e y r e   c o n s i d e r e d   a   d o m e s t i c   t e r r o r i s m   t h r e a t
M a n y   s o v e r e i g n   m y t h s   h a r k   b a c k   t o   t h e   c r e a t i o n   i n   1 9 1 3   o f   t h e   F e d e r a l   R e s e r v e   I t   w a s   t h i s   w e i r d   c o m p l i c a t e d   i n s t r u m e n t   f o r   c o n t r o l l i n g   t h e   m o n e t a r y   s y s t e m   P e o p l e   s a w   i t   a s   s i n i s t e r   t h e   a u t h o r   J   M   B e r g e r   t o l d   m e   I n   a   r e c e n t   p a p e r   M r   B e r g e r   t r a c e d   t h e   c i r c u l a t i o n   o f   t h e s e   i d e a s   i n   p a r t   t o   a   c o m p a n y   n a m e d   O m n i   P u b l i c a t i o n s   w h i c h   w a s   s o m e t h i n g   l i k e   t h e   I n f o w a r s   o f   t h e   m i d d l e   o f   t h e   2 0 t h   c e n t u r y   O n e   O m n i   t i t l e   T h e   F e d e r a l   R e s e r v e   C o n s p i r a c y   c l a i m e d   t h a t   e n e m y   a l i e n s   h a d   i n f i l t r a t e d   t h e   b a n k i n g   s y s t e m   a n d   t h a t   t h e i r   b i o g r a p h i e s   c o u l d   b e   f o u n d   i n   W h o s   W h o   i n   A m e r i c a n   J e w r y   S o v e r e i g n   l o r e   i s   o f t e n   r o o t e d   i n   a n t i S e m i t i s m   B y   t h e   1 9 7 0 s   t h e   i n t e l l e c t u a l   f a t h e r   o f   t h e   s o v e r e i g n   c i t i z e n   m o v e m e n t   W i l l i a m   P o t t e r   G a l e   h e l p e d   s p r e a d   t h i s   t y p e   o f   f a l s e h o o d   t o   a   l a r g e r   a u d i e n c e
T h e   f o u n d e r   o f   t h e   a n t i g o v e r n m e n t   g r o u p   P o s s e   C o m i t a t u s   M r   G a l e   a l i g n e d   h i m s e l f   w i t h   a n   e m e r g i n g   m o v e m e n t   o f   t a x   p r o t e s t e r s   w h o   a r g u e d   f o r   i n s t a n c e   t h a t   p a y i n g   t a x e s   w a s   a   f o r m   o f   i n v o l u n t a r y   s e r v i t u d e   I n   t u r n   h e   i n t r o d u c e d   t h e m   t o   h i s   w a r p e d   v e r s i o n   o f   A m e r i c a   w h e r e   p a t r i o t s   e s t a b l i s h   t h e i r   o w n   l e g a l   s y s t e m   a n d   h a n g   t h o s e   w h o   d e f y   i t   M r   G a l e s   s p e c i f i c   g i f t   w a s   w r a p p i n g   n o n s e n s e   i n   e n o u g h   l e g a l e s e   t h a t   i t   s o u n d e d   r e a l   I f   y o u   h a v e   t h i s   m o v e m e n t   t h a t   o f f e r s   y o u   e s s e n t i a l l y   a   l o t   o f   m a g i c   w o r d s   t h a t   y o u   c a n   s a y   t o   g e t   o u t   o f   t r o u b l e   t h a t s   g o i n g   t o   r e a l l y   a p p e a l   t o   p e o p l e   w h o   a r e   d e s p e r a t e   a n d   a n g r y   M r   B e r g e r   s a i d   M r   G a l e s   o u t r e a c h   w a s   a   s u c c e s s   O v e r   t i m e   t h e   l i n e   b e t w e e n   t h o u s a n d s   o f   t a x   p r o t e s t e r s   a n d   P o s s e   m e m b e r s   b l u r r e d
T a k e   r e d e m p t i o n     a   t h e o r y   p o p u l a r i z e d   i n   p a r t   b y   a   G a l e   a s s o c i a t e   R e m e m b e r   h o w   t h e   c o r p o r a t i o n s l a s h f a k e g o v e r n m e n t   u s e d   u s   a s   c o l l a t e r a l   A c c o r d i n g   t o   s o v e r e i g n   l o r e   t h i s   m e a n s   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   s e t   u p   s e c r e t   a c c o u n t s   i n   o u r   n a m e s   S o m e   b e l i e v e   t h e y   c o n t a i n   t h e   o d d l y   s p e c i f i c   a m o u n t   o f   6 3 0 0 0 0   T o   b e   c l e a r   t h i s   i s   p u r e   f a n t a s y   a c c o r d i n g   t o   t h e   I n t e r n a l   R e v e n u e   S e r v i c e
O n e   w a y   s o v e r e i g n s   t r y   t o   m a k e   t h e   i m a g i n a r y   m o n e y   r e a l   i s   b y   a b u s i n g   l e g i t i m a t e   I R S   f o r m s   L a w a b i d i n g   t a x p a y e r s   u s e   F o r m   1 0 9 9 O I D   f o r   e x a m p l e   t o   r e p o r t   o r i g i n a l   i s s u e   d i s c o u n t   i n c o m e   B u t   s o m e   s o v e r e i g n s   w r i t e   i n   f a k e   O I D   i n c o m e   a n d   f a k e   w i t h h o l d i n g   i n   o r d e r   t o   c l a i m   i l l e g i t i m a t e   r e f u n d s   I f   y o u   f i l e   s u c h   a   r e t u r n   y o u   r i s k   a t   t h e   v e r y   l e a s t   a   l a r g e   f i n e   Y e t   f r o m   2 0 1 2   t o   2 0 1 4   a c c o r d i n g   t o   t h e   T r e a s u r y   I n s p e c t o r   G e n e r a l   f o r   T a x   A d m i n i s t r a t i o n   t h e   I R S   r e c e i v e d   c l o s e   t o   7 0 0 0   s h a m   O I D   f i l i n g s
C h r o n i c a l l y   u n d e r f u n d e d   a n d   u n d e r s t a f f e d   I R S   i n v e s t i g a t o r s   r e f e r   o n l y   a b o u t   t w o   d o z e n   s o v e r e i g n s c a m   c a s e s   o n   a v e r a g e   f o r   p r o s e c u t i o n   e a c h   y e a r   T h e   a g e n c y   s o m e t i m e s   m i s s e s   r e t u r n s   t h a t   s h o u l d   r a i s e   s u s p i c i o n   F o r   e x a m p l e   i n   2 0 1 6   t h e   I R S   d i s c o v e r e d   a   s i z a b l e   r e d e m p t i o n   s c h e m e     b u t   o n l y   a f t e r   p r o c e s s i n g   2 0 7   b o g u s   r e t u r n s   a n d   d i s b u r s i n g   m o r e   t h a n   4 3   m i l l i o n   T h a t s   a n o t h e r   r e a s o n   t h e s e   s t r a n g e   t h e o r i e s   p e r s i s t   a n d   h a v e   b e g u n   t o   l e a c h   o u t   o f   t h e   s o v e r e i g n   n e t w o r k   a n d   i n t o   t h e   g e n e r a l   p o p u l a t i o n   S o m e t i m e s   i m p r o b a b l y   t h e y   w o r k
M r   M o r t o n   w a s   b o r n   i n   1 9 5 8   a n d   h i s   c o m f o r t a b l e   c h i l d h o o d   i n   N o r t h e r n   C a l i f o r n i a   w a s   a   t u t o r i a l   i n   h o w   t o   m a k e   a   s a l e s   p i t c h   H i s   m o t h e r   M a u r e e n   K e n n e d y   S a l a m a n   w a s     a s   S a n   F r a n c i s c o   m a g a z i n e   o n c e   d e s c r i b e d   h e r     a   m i l l i o n a i r e   e v a n g e l i c a l   a l t e r n a t i v e m e d i c i n e   f a n a t i c   w h o   p r o m o t e d   q u e s t i o n a b l e   c a n c e r   t r e a t m e n t s
S h e   w a s   a l s o   a   m e m b e r   o f   t h e   J o h n   B i r c h   S o c i e t y   t h e   f a r r i g h t   g r o u p   k n o w n   f o r   i t s   p a r a n o i d   a n t i c o m m u n i s m   a n d   s h e   s t o c k p i l e d   b e a n s   g r a i n s   a n d   a m m u n i t i o n   i n   c a s e   o f   a   R u s s i a n   i n v a s i o n   I n   1 9 8 4   s h e   w a s   c h o s e n   a s   t h e   v i c e p r e s i d e n t i a l   n o m i n e e   f o r   t h e   P o p u l i s t   P a r t y   a   f a v o r i t e   o f   w h i t e   s u p r e m a c i s t s   I t s   p r e s i d e n t i a l   c a n d i d a t e   t h e   f o l l o w i n g   c y c l e   w a s   t h e   f o r m e r   K u   K l u x   K l a n   g r a n d   w i z a r d   D a v i d   D u k e   I n   h e r   a c c e p t a n c e   s p e e c h   s h e   w a r n e d   t h e   c r o w d   W e r e   u p   a g a i n s t   t h e   m o s t   e v i l   a n d   p o w e r f u l   c o n s p i r a c y   t h e   w o r l d   h a s   e v e r   k n o w n
W h e n   M r   M o r t o n   r e a c h e d   a d u l t h o o d   h e   s o l d   u n o r t h o d o x   b e l i e f s   f r o m   b e h i n d   a   s u b u r b a n d a d   v e n e e r   a   f l o p   o f   d a r k   h a i r   a   r o u n d   c l e a n s h a v e n   f a c e   a n d   a   b u t t o n d o w n a n d k h a k i s   w a r d r o b e   H e   w a s   c h a r i s m a t i c   b u t   a l s o   c h i l d l i k e   f r i e n d s   s a i d   h i s   e g o   e a s i l y   b r u i s e d   H e   b r a n d e d   h i m s e l f   a n   i n v e s t i g a t i v e   r e p o r t e r   w i t h i n   t h e   U F O   w o r l d   a n d   i n   t h e   1 9 9 0 s   w h e n   M r   M o r t o n   a p p e a r e d   o n   T h e   M o n t e l   W i l l i a m s   S h o w   h e   m a d e   o u t r a g e o u s   c l a i m s     m o r e   t h a n   1 0 0   a l i e n   s p e c i e s   h a d   v i s i t e d   E a r t h     w i t h   t h e   c e r t a i n t y   o f   a   N o b e l   l a u r e a t e   I   g o t   c l o s e   e n o u g h   t o   o n e   o f   t h e s e   t h i n g s   t h a t   w a s   f l o a t i n g   a r o u n d   i n   t h e   d e s e r t   t o   a c t u a l l y   g e t   m y   f a c e   b u r n e d   b y   i t   h e   s a i d
E v e n   o t h e r   U F O   e n t h u s i a s t s   c o n s i d e r e d   h i m   a   k o o k   b u t   M r   M o r t o n s   f a n s   d i d n t   c a r e   T h e   t r u t h   w a s   o u t   t h e r e     a n d   S e a n   D a v i d   M o r t o n   h a d   i t   B r a n d i n g   h i m s e l f   a   p r o p h e t   h e   p l u m b e d   t h e   n e w a g e   c o n v e n t i o n   c i r c u i t   a l o n g s i d e   s p e c i a l i s t s   i n   a n i m a l   t e l e p a t h y   c h a k r a s   h a u n t i n g s   a n g e l i c   g e m s t o n e   m e s s a g e s   a n d   t h e   a f t e r l i f e   N e a r   t h e   e n d   o f   t h e   m i l l e n n i u m   a t   a   c o n v e n t i o n   i n   L a s   V e g a s   a   b l u e e y e d   r e d d i s h h a i r e d   w o m a n   a p p r o a c h e d   h i m   B a c k   i n   U t a h   M e l i s s a   T h o m s o n   h a d   g r o w n   u p   i n   a   M o r m o n   h o m e   a n d   m a r r i e d   a t   2 2   s h e   w o r k e d   i n   b a n k i n g   a n d   i n   h e r   s p a r e   t i m e   d o t e d   o n   h e r   p e d i g r e e d   c a t s   e v e n   s e r v i n g   a s   t r e a s u r e r   o f   t h e   l o c a l   C a t   F a n c i e r s   g r o u p   T h e   C o a s t   t o   C o a s t   p r o g r a m   w a s   h e r   e s c a p e   a n d   s h e   s p e n t   h o u r s   f a n g i r l i n g   o v e r   M r   M o r t o n   a   f r e q u e n t   g u e s t
A t   t h e   L a s   V e g a s   c o n v e n t i o n   M s   T h o m s o n   a p p a r e n t l y   h a d   o n e   g o a l   t o   m e e t   h e r   i d o l   I t   w a s   l o v e   a t   f i r s t   s i g h t   M r   M o r t o n   s a i d   S h e   s o o n   l e f t   h e r   h u s b a n d   a n d   j o i n e d   M r   M o r t o n   i n   S o u t h e r n   C a l i f o r n i a   H e r   o l d e s t   b r o t h e r   R o b e r t   t o l d   m e   T h e   m o r e   w e   f o u n d   o u t   t h e   m o r e   w e   w a r n e d   M e l i s s a   t h a t   h e   i s   j u s t   n o t   a   d e c e n t   p e r s o n   a t   a l l   B u t   h e   p r o m i s e d   h e r   m o v i e   r o l e s   t h e y l l   i n h e r i t   M o m m y s   h o m e   i n   A t h e r t o n   h e r   c o n d o   i n   T a h o e   A l l   s h e   c o u l d   s e e   w a s   d o l l a r s   W h e n   t h e y   g o t   m a r r i e d   h e r   f a m i l y   r e f u s e d   t o   a t t e n d
T h r o u g h   h e r   l a w y e r   M s   M o r t o n   d e c l i n e d   t o   c o m m e n t   M r   M o r t o n   d i d   n o t   r e s p o n d   t o   m u l t i p l e   r e q u e s t s   f o r   c o m m e n t   a l t h o u g h   h e   s a i d   o n   Y o u T u b e   l a s t   f a l l   t h a t   T h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s   w a s   c o n d u c t i n g   a   m a s s i v e   s m e a r   c a m p a i g n   a g a i n s t   h i m   U n l e s s   o t h e r w i s e   n o t e d   a l l   o f   h i s   q u o t e s   i n   t h i s   a r t i c l e   a r e   f r o m   c o u r t   r e c o r d s
T h e   M o r t o n s   l i v e d   i n   H e r m o s a   B e a c h   a   s u r f   s p o t   a b o u t   2 0   m i l e s   f r o m   d o w n t o w n   L o s   A n g e l e s   N e x t   t o   i t s   m i n i p a l a c e s   t h e i r   o a t m e a l c o l o r e d   a p a r t m e n t   b u i l d i n g   r e s e m b l e d   s e r v a n t s   q u a r t e r s   b u t   i t   w a s   a   s h o r t   s t r o l l   t o   t h e   P a c i f i c   O c e a n   M r   M o r t o n   w e l c o m e d   h i s   n e w   w i f e s   b u s h y t a i l e d   N o r w e g i a n   f o r e s t   c a t s     w h e n   a   n e w   l i t t e r   a r r i v e d   m o r e   t h a n   a   d o z e n   s c a m p e r e d   a r o u n d   t h e   a p a r t m e n t     a n d   i n   t u r n   s h e   o v e r s a w   t h e   a d m i n i s t r a t i v e   s i d e   o f   b e i n g   S e a n   D a v i d   M o r t o n   H e   s h i l l e d   c o n s p i r a c y   f i c t i o n   T h e   D a r k   P r o p h e t     V e i l   o f   t h e   A n t i C h r i s t   C D s   E v e r y t h i n g   Y o u   W a n t e d   t o   K n o w   A b o u t   t h e   F u t u r e   V o l   2   a   6 5   n e w s l e t t e r   w i t h   t h o u s a n d s   o f   s u b s c r i b e r s   T O M O R R O W S   H E A D L I N E S   T O D A Y
E i t h e r   t h i s   w a s n t   p a r t i c u l a r l y   l u c r a t i v e   o r   i t   w a s n t   l u c r a t i v e   e n o u g h   t o   r e p l i c a t e   M r   M o r t o n s   c h i l d h o o d   w e a l t h   F r o m   t h e   o u t s i d e   i t   w a s   h a r d   t o   t e l l   H e   w a s   a l w a y s   a s k i n g   m e   t o   t r y   a n d   h e l p   h i m   t o   d o   s o m e t h i n g   s o   t h a t   h e   c o u l d   r a i s e   s o m e   m o n e y   s a i d   S u s a n   S h u m s k y   a   f e l l o w   f i x t u r e   o n   t h e   n e w a g e   c i r c u i t   L i k e   L e t s   d o   a   t r i p   t o   P e r u   s o   I   c a n   h a v e   s o m e   m o n e y   L e t s   d o   a   t e l e s e m i n a r   s o   t h a t   I   c a n   m a k e   s o m e   m o n e y   M s   M o r t o n s   p e d i g r e e d   k i t t e n s   w h i c h   s o l d   f o r   h u n d r e d s   o f   d o l l a r s   e a c h   a p p a r e n t l y   k e p t   t h e m   s o l v e n t   A t   v a r i o u s   p o i n t s   s h e   a l s o   d o g w a l k e d   a n d   w o r k e d   a t   D i s n e y l a n d   T h e i r   f r i e n d   W i l l   C h a p p e l l   s a i d   I t   w a s   h i m   l e a d i n g   t h e   c h a r g e   h i m   l e a d i n g   t h e   f a m i l y   S h e   d i d   w h a t   w a s   n e c e s s a r y   t o   a c c o m p l i s h   h i s   g o a l s
E a r l y   i n   t h e i r   r e l a t i o n s h i p   a   w e b s i t e   c a l l e d   U F O   W a t c h d o g     E x p o s i n g   t h e   P a r a s i t e s   D e l u s i o n a l   P e r s o n a l i t i e s   M o r o n s   a n d   F r a u d s   C u r r e n t l y   C l o u d i n g   t h e   U F O   I s s u e     d i s m a n t l e d   m u c h   o f   M r   M o r t o n s   o f f i c i a l   b i o g r a p h y   M r   M o r t o n   s u e d   t h e   c a s e   w a s   d i s m i s s e d   B u t   i n   a n   e m a i l   i n c l u d e d   i n   t h e   c a s e   f i l e   M s   M o r t o n   w a v e d   o f f   t h e   f i n d i n g s   I   w o u l d   o n l y   b e   c o n c e r n e d   i f   S e a n   D I D N T   h a v e   c r i t i c s   S o m e   o f   t h e   g r e a t e s t   p e o p l e   i n   h i s t o r y   h a v e   h a d   p e o p l e   a t t a c k i n g   t h e m   a t   e v e r y   s t e p   I t   j u s t   m e a n s   t h a t   S e a n   i s   d o i n g   s o m e t h i n g   r i g h t   a n d   t r y i n g   t o   m a k e   a   d i f f e r e n c e   i n   t h e   w o r l d
B y   2 0 0 6   t h e   c o u p l e   w a s   e x p e c t i n g   a   w i n d f a l l   M s   S a l a m a n   w a s   i n   p o o r   h e a l t h   w h e n   s h e   d i e d   M r   M o r t o n   a s s u m e d   h e d   i n h e r i t   s o m e   o f   h i s   m o t h e r s   f o r t u n e   B u t   t h e i r   r e l a t i o n s h i p   a l r e a d y   f r o s t y   i c e d   o v e r   i n   h e r   f i n a l   w e e k s   M s   S a l a m a n   d i d n t   e v e n   w a n t   h e r   s o n   a n d   h i s   w i f e   t o   v i s i t   S h e   c u t   t h e m   b o t h   o u t   o f   h e r   w i l l   e v e n   a s   s h e   k e p t   a   1 0 0 0 0 0   t r u s t   f o r   h e r   G r e a t   D a n e   D u k e
T h e y   j u s t   b o t h   w e n t   b e r s e r k   M s   M o r t o n s   b r o t h e r   r e c a l l e d   I t s   j u s t   b e e n   s c a m   a f t e r   s c a m   a f t e r   s c a m
W h i l e   t h e   s o v e r e i g n   c i t i z e n   m o v e m e n t   i s   i n h e r e n t l y   n o t   o r g a n i z e d   s o m e   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   f i r m a m e n t   b e c o m e   k n o w n   a s   g u r u s   a n d   a r e   v e c t o r s   f o r   s p r e a d i n g   t h e   i d e o l o g y   M r   M o r t o n   o f t e n   l e c t u r e d   a t   t h e   L i v i n g   T e m p l e   a   n e w   a g e   s h o p   j u s t   s o u t h   o f   H e r m o s a   B e a c h   T h e   o w n e r   f a v o r e d   a   b l a c k   T s h i r t   w i t h   f i v e   f l y i n g   s a u c e r s   a n d   t h e   a d m o n i t i o n   K E E P   L O O K I N G   U P   a n d   y o g a   m u s i c   o m m e d   t h r o u g h   a   c l u t t e r   o f   a p o t h e c a r y   b o t t l e s   b a g s   o f   h e r b a l   s o m e t h i n g   m i r a c l e c l e a n s e   g u i d e b o o k s   a n d   c r o p c i r c l e   D V D s
O n e   d a y   m o s t   l i k e l y   i n   2 0 0 8   a   m a n   n a m e d   B r a n d o n   A d a m s   s t a r t e d   s h o w i n g   u p   L i k e   M r   M o r t o n   h e   w a s   a   b u d d i n g   s o v e r e i g n   a m p l i f i e r     b u t   h e   w a s   s o   m u c h   y o u n g e r   t h a t   h i s   u n t u c k e d   b u t t o n d o w n s   l o o k e d   l i k e   a n   a t t e m p t   a t   p l a y i n g   d r e s s u p   H i s   f a m i l y   r a n   a   l o c a l   t a x p r e p   b u s i n e s s   H i s   w h o l e   t h i n g   w a s   t h e   b a n k s   M r   M o r t o n   s a i d   l a t e r   W h a t   h e   c o n s i d e r e d   t h e   g r e a t   c r i m i n a l   c o n s p i r a c y   b e t w e e n   t h e   I n t e r n a l   R e v e n u e   S e r v i c e   a n d   t h e   b a n k i n g   c a r t e l s   M r   M o r t o n   q u i c k l y   g o t   h i m   a   s p e a k i n g   s l o t
S o m e   o f   M r   A d a m s s   t a l k s   w e r e   r e c o r d e d   P a c i n g   i n   f r o n t   o f   a   f e w   d o z e n   p e o p l e   s c r i b b l i n g   p h r a s e s   a n d   s t i c k   f i g u r e s   o n   a   w h i t e b o a r d   h e   w o v e   a   d a r k   t a l e   T h e   s e c r e t   b a n k r u p t c y   T h e   p e o p l e a s c o l l a t e r a l   T h e n   a   t w i s t   T h e   b a n k s   w e r e   s k i m m i n g   m o n e y   f r o m     o r   f r a c t i o n a l i z i n g     e v e r y   t r a n s a c t i o n   w e   m a k e   H e   t o l d   t h e   g r o u p   t h e y   c o u l d   r e c l a i m   t h e   f u n d s   v i a   F o r m   1 0 9 9 O I D
F r o m   a   f o l d i n g   c h a i r   M r   M o r t o n     l o o k i n g   g r a y e r   a n d   r o u n d e r   t h a n   d u r i n g   h i s   M o n t e l   W i l l i a m s   d a y s     a s k e d   M r   A d a m s   i f   a n y o n e   h a d   r e a l l y   g o t t e n   a   b i g   r e f u n d   t h a t   w a y   Y e s   M r   A d a m s   s a i d   T h e   f u n n y   t h i n g   i s   w a t c h   h o w   q u i e t   p e o p l e   s t a r t   t o   g e t   w h e n   t h e y r e   n o t   s o   s u r e   a b o u t   t h e   p r o c e s s   a n d   t h e y   d o   s t a r t   g e t t i n g   t h e   r e t u r n s   L a u g h t e r   T h e y v e   g o t   t h a t   m e n t a l i t y   I m   n o t   g o i n g   t o   s a y   I   j u s t   g o t   t w o   h u n d r e d   a n d   f i f t y   g r a n d
T h e   a u d i e n c e   l a p p e d   i t   u p   T h i s   w a s   A m e r i c a   d u r i n g   t h e   f i n a n c i a l   c r i s i s   T h e   b a n k s   h a d   b e e n   b a i l e d   o u t   b u t   n o t   h o m e o w n e r s   a n d   t h e   e r a   o f   T e a   P a r t y   r a l l i e s   a n d   O c c u p y   W a l l   S t r e e t   e n c a m p m e n t s   w a s   i m m i n e n t   I t   w a s n t   t o o   m u c h   o f   a   l e a p   t o   s u s p e c t   t h a t   W a s h i n g t o n   w a s   i n   c a h o o t s   w i t h   t h e   l i k e s   o f   J P   M o r g a n   M r   A d a m s s   L i v i n g   T e m p l e   t a l k s   d r e w   l a r g e   e n o u g h   c r o w d s   t h a t   h e   m o v e d   t o   a   b i g g e r   v e n u e   a n d   s o l d   p r i v a t e   c o a c h i n g   f o r   2 0 0   a n   h o u r   I t   b e c a m e   a   m o v e m e n t   r e a l l y   M r   M o r t o n   s a i d   M r   A d a m s   d i d   n o t   r e s p o n d   t o   m u l t i p l e   r e q u e s t s   f o r   c o m m e n t
I n   t h e   s p r i n g   o f   2 0 0 9   u n d e r   M r   A d a m s s   t u t e l a g e   t h e   M o r t o n s   t r i e d   t h e   O I D   s c h e m e   t h e m s e l v e s   M r   M o r t o n   f i l e d   f o u r   y e a r s   o f   r e t u r n s     f r o m   2 0 0 5   t o   2 0 0 8     a n d   c l a i m e d   n e a r l y   4   m i l l i o n   i n   r e f u n d s   H i s   w i f e   f i l e d   a   2 0 0 7   r e t u r n   a n d   c l a i m e d   a b o u t   1 2 0 0 0   I   n e v e r   e v e r   e v e r   i n   a n y   o f   t h i s   t h o u g h t   t h a t   I   w a s   b r e a k i n g   a   l a w   M r   M o r t o n   l a t e r   s a i d   I   t h o u g h t   t h a t   t h i s   w a s   t h e   l a w   H i s   f a i t h   w a s   b o l s t e r e d   w h e n   t h a t   A p r i l   h e   g o t   a   r e f u n d   f o r   o n e   o f   h i s   r e t u r n s   a   d i r e c t   d e p o s i t   t o   t h e i r   W a s h i n g t o n   M u t u a l   a c c o u n t   o f   4 8 0 3 2 2 5 5
I n   2 0 1 0   t h e   S e c u r i t i e s   a n d   E x c h a n g e   C o m m i s s i o n   w e n t   a f t e r   t h e   M o r t o n s   f o r   a   d i f f e r e n t   s c h e m e     o n e   w i t h   n o   c o n n e c t i o n   t o   s o v e r e i g n   i d e o l o g y   M r   M o r t o n   h a d   u s e d   h i s   u n c o n v e n t i o n a l   c e l e b r i t y   a   f e w   y e a r s   e a r l i e r   t o   b e g i n   a n   i n v e s t m e n t   c l u b   w h e r e   h e   w o u l d   c h a n n e l   h i s   p s y c h i c   p o w e r s   i n t o   p r e d i c t i n g   f o r e i g n   c u r r e n c y   m a r k e t s   I t s   a   r i s k y   t y p e   o f   t r a d i n g   b u t   M r   M o r t o n   b r a g g e d   t h a t   h i s   f o r e c a s t s   w e r e   s o   a c c u r a t e   t h a t   e v e n   H e n r y   P a u l s o n   t h e n   t h e   T r e a s u r y   s e c r e t a r y   r e l i e d   o n   t h e m
A f t e r   h e a r i n g   M r   M o r t o n   p r o m o t e   t h e   f u n d   o n   C o a s t   t o   C o a s t   a   m a n   f r o m   W a s h i n g t o n   S t a t e   i n v e s t e d   2 1 7 0 0 0   A n   e l d e r l y   N e w   Y o r k   w o m a n   p a r t e d   w i t h   2 0 0 0 0   H e s   p r o m i s i n g   t h e   s t a r s   r e c a l l e d   T i m   S a u n d e r s   a n   A l a s k a   e l e c t r i c i a n   w h o   p o u r e d   i n   h i s   l i f e   s a v i n g s   o f   1 3 5 0 0 0   Y e a h   m y   g r e e d   c a m e   o u t   a n d   I   f e l t   I   n e e d e d   m o r e   a n d   q u i c k l y   I n   a l l   m o r e   t h a n   1 0 0   p e o p l e   i n v e s t e d   6   m i l l i o n   M r   M o r t o n   s a n k   o n l y   h a l f   o f   i t   i n t o   f o r e i g n c u r r e n c y   t r a d i n g     n e a r l y   a l l   o f   w h i c h   h e   l o s t   A t   l e a s t   2 4 0 0 0 0   w a s   f u n n e l e d   t o   a   n o n p r o f i t   t h e   M o r t o n s   s e t   u p   a n d   a u t h o r i t i e s   d o n t   k n o w   w h e r e   t h e   r e s t   i s   I n   2 0 1 3   t h e   S E C   w o n   a n   1 1 5   m i l l i o n   j u d g m e n t   a g a i n s t   h i m   M s   M o r t o n   w a s   a   r e l i e f   d e f e n d a n t   m e a n i n g   s h e   w a s   a c c u s e d   o n l y   o f   p r o f i t i n g   f r o m   t h e   s c h e m e
T h e   M o r t o n s   f i l e d   f o r   b a n k r u p t c y   b u t   r e p e a t e d l y   m i s l e d   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t     f o r   i n s t a n c e   w h e n   t h e y   c l a i m e d   n o t   t o   h a v e   b a n k   a c c o u n t s   A   c o u r t   e v e n t u a l l y   d e n i e d   t h e i r   d i s c h a r g e   m e a n i n g   t h e y   c o u l d n t   g e t   r i d   o f   t h e i r   d e b t   T h e y   w e r e   a l s o   t o s s e d   o u t   o f   t h e i r   b e a c h a d j a c e n t   a p a r t m e n t   B o t t o m   l i n e   M s   M o r t o n   t o l d   t h e   b a n k r u p t c y   t r u s t e e   o n e   d a y   I   j u s t   w a n t   t o   b e   a b l e   t o   g e t   a   d e c e n t   j o b   h a v e   a   n i c e   p l a c e   t o   l i v e   p a y   m y   t a x e s   a n d   j u s t   h a v e   m y   l i f e   b a c k
I t   w a s   a r o u n d   t h i s   t i m e   t h a t   t h e   M o r t o n s   t u r n e d   t o   h a w k i n g   t h e   d e b t e r a s i n g   s o v e r e i g n   s c h e m e   k n o w n   a s   t h e   b o n d   p r o c e s s   O v e r   t w o   y e a r s   t h e y   h e l p e d   p e o p l e   a r o u n d   t h e   c o u n t r y   s e n d   n e a r l y   t w o   d o z e n   f a k e   b o n d s   t o   t h e   I R S   Q u i c k e n   L o a n s   P e n n y M a c   B a n k   o f   A m e r i c a   C h a s e   B a n k   a n d   t h e   t r e a s u r e r s   o f f i c e   i n   C o n t r a   C o s t a   C o u n t y   C a l i f o r n i a   E a r l y   i n   2 0 1 5   B a r b a r a   L a v e n d e r   t h e   w o m a n   w h o s e   h u s b a n d   m e t   M r   M o r t o n   a t   a   U F O   c o n f e r e n c e   g a v e   h i m   a   c a l l
M s   L a v e n d e r   i s   6 1   a n d   a   f r o n t d e s k   c l e r k   a t   a n   a d u l t   s c h o o l   W h e n   I   m e t   h e r   l a s t   y e a r   i n   H e m e t   C a l i f   n e a r l y   9 0   p a r c h e d   m i l e s   e a s t   o f   L o s   A n g e l e s   h e r   r a n c h s t y l e   h o m e   w a s   t r i m m e d   i n   r e d   C h r i s t m a s   l i g h t s   W e   c h a t t e d   a t   h e r   k i t c h e n   t a b l e   w i t h   h e r   1 4 y e a r o l d   d o g   R e m y   c u r l e d   a t   o u r   f e e t   S h e   e x p l a i n e d   t h a t   w h e n   s h e   s p o k e   t o   M r   M o r t o n   o v e r   t h e   p h o n e   h e   a v o i d e d   t a l k i n g   a b o u t   s o v e r e i g n   i d e o l o g y   I n s t e a d   h e   s a i d   s h e   c o u l d   p u r c h a s e   a   p o r t i o n   o f   a   b o n d   t h a t   h e   h e l d     a n d   a l m o s t   m a g i c a l l y   m a k e   h e r   e d u c a t i o n a l   l o a n   d i s a p p e a r
T o   w i p e   o u t   h e r   7 0 0 0 0   b a l a n c e   h e   s u g g e s t e d   M s   L a v e n d e r   s h o u l d   s e n d   h i m   2 5 0 0   o r   l e s s   t h a n   4   p e r c e n t   o f   w h a t   s h e   o w e d   S h e   a n d   h e r   h u s b a n d   b e l i e v e d   M r   M o r t o n   h a d   d i s c o v e r e d   t h e   s o r t   o f   w o r k a r o u n d   r i c h   p e o p l e   f i n d   Y o u   k n o w   s h e   t e s t i f i e d   l a t e r   Y o u   h e a r   i t   a l l   t h e   t i m e   w e a l t h y   w i t h   t a x   l o o p h o l e s   a n d   t h a t   k i n d   o f   t h i n g
T h e   b o n d   l o o k e d   a u t h e n t i c a l l y   b u r e a u c r a t i c   w i t h   a   f o r m a l   s c a l l o p e d   b o r d e r   I t   w a s   r e a l l y   c e r t i f i c a t e   p a p e r   f r o m   O f f i c e   D e p o t   T h e   a c c o m p a n y i n g   p a p e r w o r k   s a i d   t h a t   t h e   s t u d e n t   l o a n   c o m p a n y   w a s   e n t i t l e d   t o   b e   p a i d   b a c k   f r o m   a   f u n d   t h a t   i n   r e a l i t y   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   t a p s   t o   h e l p   s t a b i l i z e   f o r e i g n   c u r r e n c i e s   M r   M o r t o n   s a i d   h e   w a r n e d   M s   L a v e n d e r   L o o k   I   d o n t   k n o w   i f   t h i s   i s   g o i n g   t o   w o r k   I m   n o t   a   l a w y e r   H e   a d d e d   I t s   a l l   g o i n g   t o   d e p e n d   o n   w h e t h e r   o r   n o t   t h e y   a c c e p t   i t
A   m o n t h   a f t e r   t h e   M o r t o n s   m a i l e d   t h e   b o n d   p a c k a g e   M s   L a v e n d e r   c h e c k e d   h e r   e d u c a t i o n a l   l o a n   b a l a n c e   s a w   i t   h a d n t   b u d g e d   a n d   w r o t e   M s   M o r t o n   a n   e m a i l   S h e   d i d n t   g e t   a   r e s p o n s e   M s   L a v e n d e r   s e n t   f o l l o w u p   a f t e r   f o l l o w u p   T h i s   i s   b e g i n n i n g   t o   f e e l   i n c r e a s i n g l y   m o r e   l i k e   a   s c a m   s h e   w r o t e   t h a t   O c t o b e r   w h e r e   w e   w e r e   b i l k e d   o u t   o f   h a r d e a r n e d   m o n e y   w e   d i d   n o t   h a v e   t o   s p a r e
M s   M o r t o n   f i n a l l y   r e p l i e d   a n d   s a i d   s h e d   b e e n   r e c o v e r i n g   f r o m   k n e e   s u r g e r y   M s   L a v e n d e r   s e n t   a n   a l m o s t   a p o l o g e t i c   r e s p o n s e   H e r   a t t e n t i o n   w a s   e l s e w h e r e     h e r   h u s b a n d   h a d   d i e d   s u d d e n l y   f r o m   a   b r a i n   m a s s   O n c e   y o u   h e a r   f r o m   S e a n   c a n   y o u   l e t   m e   k n o w   w h a t   h e   t h i n k s   w e   s h o u l d   d o   n e x t   s h e   w r o t e   W i t h   m y   h u s b a n d   g o n e   t h i s   d e b t   i s   n o w   a n   e v e n   g r e a t e r   b u r d e n   f o r   m e   a s   h e   w a s   t h e   m a i n   b r e a d w i n n e r
N o t h i n g   c a m e   o f   t h e   e x c h a n g e   T h a t   w i n t e r   t w o   m e n   i n   j a c k e t s   s h o w e d   u p   a t   M s   L a v e n d e r s   h o m e   a n d   q u e s t i o n e d   h e r   a b o u t   t h e   M o r t o n s   t h e   b o n d   p r o c e s s   t h e   o u t c o m e   A f t e r w a r d   M s   L a v e n d e r   t o o k   o n e   o f   t h e i r   b u s i n e s s   c a r d s   t o   h e r   n e p h e w   w h o   w o r k s   f o r   t h e   l o c a l   s h e r i f f s   o f f i c e   Y e s   h e   r e a s s u r e d   h e r   T h e y   r e a l l y   a r e   f r o m   t h e   I R S
O n   J a n   3 1   2 0 1 6   a   n e a r l y   2 0 0 f o o t t a l l   w h i t e a n d b l u e   c r u i s e   s h i p   c a l l e d   t h e   R u b y   P r i n c e s s   d o c k e d   a t   t h e   P o r t   o f   L o s   A n g e l e s   A b o u t   1 0 0   g u e s t s   o n   b o a r d   h a d   p a i d   3 0 0 0   e a c h   f o r   w h a t   w a s   m a r k e t e d   a s   t h e   C o n s p i r a S e a   C r u i s e     a   w e e k l o n g   j a u n t   t h r o u g h   M e x i c a n   w a t e r s   a n d   A m e r i c a n   p a r a n o i a   f r o m   V a c c i n a t i o n s   D o   Y o u   R e a l l y   K n o w   W h a t s   C o m i n g   T h r o u g h   T h a t   N e e d l e   t o   C o n s p i r a c y   t o   S t e a l   Y o u r   B o d y   a n d   S o u l   A s   t h e   M o r t o n s   p r e p a r e d   t o   d i s e m b a r k   t h e y   w e r e   a r r e s t e d   b y   f e d e r a l   a g e n t s
A f t e r   y e a r s   o f   d i g g i n g   b y   I R S   i n v e s t i g a t o r s   t h e   M o r t o n s   f a c e d   a   s u i t e   o f   c h a r g e s   r e l a t e d   t o   t h e i r   t a x   f i l i n g s   a n d   f a k e   b o n d s   O n c e   o f f   t h e   R u b y   P r i n c e s s   w h e r e   M r   M o r t o n   h a d   l e d   a   w o r k s h o p   c a l l e d   F r o m   F a s c i s m   t o   F r e e d o m   t h e y   w e r e   s e p a r a t e d   p a t t e d   d o w n   a n d   a s k e d   w h a t   m e d i c a t i o n s   t h e y   t o o k   M r   M o r t o n   s a i d   t o   a s k   M e l i s s a   a b o u t   h i s   A n   a g e n t   d i d   C y a n i d e   s h e   s a i d   s e e t h i n g   O n   t h e   w a y   t o   j a i l   s h e   a d d e d   D o   m e   a   f a v o r   a n d   t e l l   S e a n   t h i s   T h a n k   y o u   a n d   I l l   s e e   y o u   i n   t h e   n e x t   l i f e
T h e i r   t r i a l   b e g a n   j u s t   b e f o r e   T a x   D a y   2 0 1 7   T h e   p r o s e c u t i o n   t o l d   a   s i m p l e   s t o r y   o f   g r e e d   I   s u b m i t   t h e   I R S   w a s   a   s l o t   m a c h i n e   o n e   p r o s e c u t o r   V a l e r i e   M a k a r e w i c z   s a i d   K e e p   h i t t i n g   s p i n   K e e p   p l a y i n g   u n t i l   y o u   h i t   t h a t   j a c k p o t   T h e   s a m e   d a y   t h e   M o r t o n s   g o t   t h e i r   4 8 0 3 2 2 5 5   r e f u n d   s h e   s a i d   t h e y   w e n t   t o   t h e   b a n k   a n d   d r a i n e d   n e a r l y   a l l   o f   t h e i r   a c c o u n t   O n c e   t h e   I R S   r e a l i z e d   i t s   m i s t a k e   a n d   t r i e d   t o   r e c o u p   t h e   m o n e y   t h e   M o r t o n s   f i l e d   t w o   m o r e   r o u n d s   o f   b o g u s   r e t u r n s   a n d   a   s e t   o f   f a k e   b o n d s
M s   M o r t o n s   l a w y e r   p r e s e n t e d   a   g o o d f a i t h   d e f e n s e   S h e   w a s   u n d e r   t h e   t h r a l l   o f   s o v e r e i g n   g u r u s   h e   s a i d   p e o p l e   w h o   k i n d   o f   s t r u t t e d   b a c k   a n d   f o r t h   o n   t h e   s t a g e   w i t h   a n   a n s w e r   f o r   e v e r y t h i n g   H e   s h o w e d   t h e   j u r y   3 7   p a g e s   o f   p e r f e c t c u r s i v e   n o t e s   M s   M o r t o n   t o o k   a t   a   B r a n d o n   A d a m s   l e c t u r e   I n   t h i s   c o u r t r o o m   i t s   o b v i o u s l y   n o n s e n s e   B u t   a t   t h a t   t i m e   p e o p l e   b e l i e v e d   i t   a n d   M e l i s s a   M o r t o n   b e l i e v e d   i t
M r   M o r t o n   r e p r e s e n t e d   h i m s e l f   I m   n o t   a   r a p i s t   a   t h u g   a   w a r   c r i m i n a l   h e   s a i d   d u r i n g   h i s   o p e n i n g   s t a t e m e n t   I   d i d n t   r u n   a   N a z i   c o n c e n t r a t i o n   c a m p   a n d   m u r d e r   m i l l i o n s   o f   c h i l d r e n
S e r v i n g   a s   h i s   o w n   l a w y e r   a l s o   m e a n t   h e   c r o s s e x a m i n e d   w i t n e s s e s   A r e   y o u   f a m i l i a r   w i t h   t h e   b a n k r u p t c y   o f   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   i n   1 9 3 3   h e   a s k e d   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t s   f r a u d   e x p e r t   I t   w a s   a   r e f e r e n c e   t o   t h e   s o v e r e i g n   c o n s p i r a c y   t h e o r y
N o   t h e   w i t n e s s   s a i d   I m   n o t
D u r i n g   h i s   c l o s i n g   a r g u m e n t   o n   t h e   t r i a l s   f o u r t h   d a y   M r   M o r t o n   t o l d   t h e   j u r y   a b o u t   t h e   N o r w e g i a n   f o r e s t   c a t s   E a r l i e r   i n   t h e   w e e k   h e   s a i d   h e   a n d   h i s   w i f e   t r i e d   t o   s a v e   a   p r e m a t u r e   k i t t e n   T h e y   s t a y e d   u p   l a t e   s w a d d l e d   h e r   i n   c l o t h   f e d   h e r   m i l k   w i t h   a n   e y e   d r o p p e r   T h e   k i t t e n   d i e d   a n y w a y   A s k   y o u r s e l v e s   h e   i m p l o r e d   t h e   j u r o r s   D o   w e   s e n d   t h e s e   n i c e   p e o p l e   w h o   c a r e   f o r   k i t t e n s   a n d   r a i s e   c a t s   t o   j a i l   f o r e v e r   T h e   p a n e l   d e l i b e r a t e d   f o r   t w o   h o u r s   W h e n   t h e y   r e t u r n e d   M s   M o r t o n   g r e e t e d   t h e m   w i t h   a   h o p e f u l   s m i l e   T h e   v e r d i c t   g u i l t y   o n   a l l   c o u n t s   S h e   f a i n t e d
A r o u n d   t h i s   t i m e   o t h e r   p r o m i n e n t   s o v e r e i g n s   w e r e   f a c i n g   a   r e c k o n i n g   A   c o u r t   h a d   p e r m a n e n t l y   b a r r e d   M r   A d a m s   f r o m   p r e p a r i n g   t a x   r e t u r n s   o r   p r o m o t i n g   t h e   O I D   s c h e m e   h e   e n d e d   u p   i n   p r i s o n   f o r   p e d d l i n g   f a k e   m o n e y   o r d e r s   A n o t h e r   g u r u   o n   t h e   C o n s p i r a S e a   C r u i s e   n a m e d   W i n s t o n   S h r o u t   w o r k s h o p   C o n s p i r a c y   o f   t h e   C o u r t   S y s t e m   w a s   a w a i t i n g   t r i a l   i n   O r e g o n
M r   M o r t o n s   s e n t e n c i n g   w a s   s e t   f o r   t h a t   J u n e   B u t   w h e n   t h e   1 1   a m   h e a r i n g   s t a r t e d   h e   d i d n t   s h o w
A g e n t s   s p o t t e d   h i m   t h a t   a f t e r n o o n   o u t s i d e   a   D o m i n o s   i n   H e r m o s a   B e a c h   a   g r a y   h o o d   a n d   s u n g l a s s e s   s h r o u d i n g   m u c h   o f   h i s   f a c e   H e   h o p p e d   i n   h i s   w h i t e   F o r d   E s c a p e   a n d   h e a d e d   s o u t h   T h e   n e x t   m o r n i n g   h e   t w e e t e d   a   p l e a   f o r   d o n a t i o n s   M e l i s s a   a n d   t h e   c a t s   n e e d   h e l p   r e l o c a t i n g
T w o   m o n t h s   p a s s e d   M r   M o r t o n   r e s u r f a c e d   v i a   v i d e o   o n   a   f r i e n d s   o n l i n e   t a l k   s h o w   P r o j e c t   C a m e l o t   G e t t i n g   t h e   T r u t h   O u t   O n e   W h i s t l e b l o w e r   a t   a   T i m e   H i s   h a i r   w a s   m u s s e d   a s   i f   h e d   b e e n   s t a r t l e d   a w a k e   a n d   h e   w o r e   a   h e a d s e t   a   b l a c k   V n e c k   a n d   d a r k r i m m e d   g l a s s e s   t h a t   h e   t o o k   o n   a n d   o f f
H i s   v e r s i o n   o f   h e l l o   w a s   r i p p i n g   h i s   j u d g e   a n d   p r o s e c u t o r s   a s   t h e   b i g g e s t   g a n g   o f   c r i m i n a l s   y o u r e   e v e r   g o i n g   t o   s e e   S o o n   h e   t u r n e d   h i s   a t t e n t i o n   t o   t h e   i m p e n d i n g   s o l a r   e c l i p s e   T h i s   i s   o n e   o f   t h e   b i g g e s t   t u r n i n g   p o i n t s   i n   A m e r i c a n   h i s t o r y   h e   s a i d   T h e   v i d e o   c l o c k e d   m o r e   t h a n   4 0 0 0 0   v i e w s   I t   w a s   v i n t a g e   S e a n   D a v i d   M o r t o n   w h i c h   i s   t o   s a y   i t   w a s   i m p o s s i b l e   t o   t e l l   w h a t   i f   a n y t h i n g   h e   b e l i e v e d
I   o n c e   a s k e d   W i l l   C h a p p e l l   w h o   h a s   k n o w n   t h e   M o r t o n s   f o r   m o r e   t h a n   a   d e c a d e   w h e t h e r   t h e y   w e r e   a c t u a l   s o v e r e i g n   d o g m a t i s t s   H e   s a i d   S h e   d e f i n i t e l y   b e l i e v e d   i n   t h e   s t o r y   t h a t   S e a n   w a s   t e l l i n g   I   b e l i e v e   t h a t   S e a n   b e l i e v e d   i n   t h e   s t o r y   t h a t   h e   w a s   t e l l i n g   A   l i t t l e   b i t   I   b e l i e v e d   i n   i t   A n d   n o w   a f t e r   t h e i r   c o n v i c t i o n s   M e l i s s a   o f   c o u r s e   k n o w i n g   w h a t   s h e   k n e w   n o w   s h e   w o u l d   h a v e   b e e n   g o n e   a   l o n g   t i m e   a g o   I   t h i n k   S e a n   w o u l d   h a v e   s t i l l   d o n e   w h a t   h e   d i d   H e   s t i l l   t h i n k s   h e   j u s t   m i s s e d   a   s t e p
T h e   s o l a r   e c l i p s e   t o o k   p l a c e   i n   A u g u s t   t h e   w e e k   a f t e r   M r   M o r t o n s   o n t h e l a m   i n t e r v i e w   T h o u g h   M s   M o r t o n   p r o m i s e d   t h e   c o u r t   s h e   w o u l d   h a v e   n o   c o n t a c t   w i t h   h e r   f u g i t i v e   h u s b a n d   t h e   c o u p l e   r e n d e z v o u s e d   a t   a   h o t e l   j u s t   o u t s i d e   P a l m   S p r i n g s   T h a t   m o r n i n g   a f t e r   t h e   m o o n   b r i e f l y   b l o t t e d   o u t   t h e   s u n   M r   M o r t o n   w a s   l o u n g i n g   p o o l s i d e   i n   s w i m   t r u n k s   p u r p l e   m o u n t a i n s   a r r a y e d   a b o v e   h i m   e c l i p s e   g l a s s e s   a t   h i s   s i d e   A n   I R S   a g e n t   w a l k e d   u p   I t   w a s   o v e r
A t   t h e i r   s e n t e n c i n g   M s   M o r t o n   d i s t a n c e d   h e r s e l f   f r o m   h i m   I   a m   a   l i v i n g   e m b o d i m e n t   o f   l o v e   i s   b l i n d   s h e   w r o t e   t o   t h e   j u d g e   I f   I   e v e r   q u e s t i o n e d   t h e   t e a c h i n g s   a n d   p r o c e s s e s   b y   o t h e r s   I   w a s   t o l d   w h o   w a s   I   t o   q u e s t i o n   o t h e r s   w h o   w e r e   f a r   s m a r t e r   t h a n   I   T h e r e   w e r e   t h o u s a n d s   o f   a t t e n d e e s   t o   t h e   w o r k s h o p s   a n d   s e m i n a r s   I t   w a s   s o   c o n v i n c i n g   w e l l o r g a n i z e d   a n d   v e r y   b e l i e v a b l e   H o w   c o u l d   t h o u s a n d s   o f   p e o p l e   b e   w r o n g   S h e   w a s   s e n t e n c e d   t o   t w o   y e a r s   i n   p r i s o n   a n d   h a s   f i l e d   a n   a p p e a l   B e h i n d   b a r s   s h e   p a s s e d   t i m e   t a k i n g   c l a s s e s     r é s u m é w r i t i n g   w a t e r c o l o r p a i n t i n g   e m b r o i d e r y     a n d   w a t c h i n g   t h e   F o o d   N e t w o r k   s h e   w a s   r e c e n t l y   t r a n s f e r r e d   t o   a   h a l f w a y   h o u s e   E m a i l s   p o s t e d   o n   t h e   P r o j e c t   C a m e l o t   s i t e   s u g g e s t   s h e   a n d   h e r   h u s b a n d   a r e   s t i l l   i n   t o u c h
M r   M o r t o n   w a s   s e n t e n c e d   t o   s i x   y e a r s   i n   p r i s o n   H e s   r e p r e s e n t i n g   h i m s e l f   o n   a p p e a l   a n d   i n   c o u r t   p a p e r s   h e   a r g u e d   t h a t   h e d   b e e n   i m p r o p e r l y   p r o f i l e d   a s   a   t e r r o r i s t   s o v e r e i g n   c i t i z e n   O n   P r o j e c t   C a m e l o t   h e s   u n r e p e n t a n t     e v e n   s h a r i n g   a   p a r d o n   r e q u e s t   h e   s a i d   h e   s e n t   t o   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p
I t s   b e c a u s e   o f   m y   w o r k   i n   R A D I O   a n d   T V   I N V E S T I G A T I V E   J O U R N A L I S M   t h a t   D E E P   S T A T E   f o r c e s   w i t h i n   t h e   D O J   p u t   m y   w i f e   a n d   I   i n   p r i s o n   f o r   Y E A R S   h e   w r o t e   O f   c o u r s e   h e   h a d   a   s u g g e s t i o n   f o r   h o w   t o   c o r r e c t   t h i s   i n j u s t i c e   d o n a t e   t o   h i s   P a y P a l   a c c o u n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   R a p h a e l   M i n d e r
M A D R I D     T h e   s i m m e r i n g   c o n f l i c t   o v e r   C a t a l a n   i n d e p e n d e n c e   r o a r e d   b a c k   t o   t h e   c e n t e r   o f   S p a n i s h   a t t e n t i o n   o n   T u e s d a y   a s   1 2   p e o p l e   w e n t   o n   t r i a l   f o r   t h e i r   r o l e s   i n   t h e   b o t c h e d   s e c e s s i o n   a t t e m p t   o f   2 0 1 7   a n d   P r i m e   M i n i s t e r   P e d r o   S á n c h e z   s c r a m b l e d   t o   k e e p   t h e   i s s u e   f r o m   t o p p l i n g   h i s   g o v e r n m e n t
T h e   e a g e r l y   a n t i c i p a t e d   t r i a l   b e f o r e   t h e   S p a n i s h   S u p r e m e   C o u r t   i n   M a d r i d   h a s   d r a w n   e n o r m o u s   a t t e n t i o n   a n d   i s   b e i n g   b r o a d c a s t   l i v e   o n   n a t i o n a l   t e l e v i s i o n   b u t   i t   c o u l d   s o o n   b e   o v e r s h a d o w e d   b y   t h e   p o l i t i c a l   c r i s i s   u n f o l d i n g   j u s t   b l o c k s   a w a y   i n   P a r l i a m e n t
O n   W e d n e s d a y   M r   S á n c h e z s   m i n o r i t y   S o c i a l i s t   g o v e r n m e n t   f a c e s   a   c r u c i a l   p a r l i a m e n t a r y   v o t e   o n   h i s   n a t i o n a l   b u d g e t   I f   a   m a j o r i t y   o f   l a w m a k e r s   r e j e c t   i t   i n c l u d i n g   C a t a l a n   l a w m a k e r s   w h o   h a v e   s o   f a r   b a c k e d   t h e   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r   h e   w i l l   a l m o s t   c e r t a i n l y   b e   f o r c e d   t o   c a l l   e l e c t i o n s
W i t h   S p a i n s   g o v e r n m e n t   h a n g i n g   i n   t h e   b a l a n c e   t h e   S u p r e m e   C o u r t   i s   u n d e r   i n t e n s e   p r e s s u r e   t o   d e m o n s t r a t e   t h a t   i t   c a n   r e m a i n   i m p a r t i a l   a n d   a b o v e   p o l i t i c s   i n   a   c a s e   t h a t   h a s   i g n i t e d   p a s s i o n s   a n d   r e c r i m i n a t i o n s   T h e   C a t a l a n   s e p a r a t i s t   l e a d e r s   w e r e   i n d i c t e d   o n   c h a r g e s   t h a t   i n c l u d e   r e b e l l i o n   a f t e r   h o l d i n g   a n   i n d e p e n d e n c e   r e f e r e n d u m   a n d   t h e n   d e c l a r i n g   i n d e p e n d e n c e   i n   O c t o b e r   2 0 1 7     m o v e s   t h e   S p a n i s h   c o u r t s   r u l e d   u n c o n s t i t u t i o n a l
T h e   s e c e s s i o n i s t   c o n f l i c t   h a s   s p l i t   C a t a l a n   s o c i e t y   b u t   i t   h a s   a l s o   h e l p e d   r e s h a p e   S p a i n s   p o l i t i c s   M r   S á n c h e z   c a m e   i n t o   o f f i c e   u n e x p e c t e d l y   i n   J u n e   a f t e r   w i n n i n g   a   v o t e   o f   n o c o n f i d e n c e   a g a i n s t   t h e   p r e v i o u s   c o n s e r v a t i v e   g o v e r n m e n t   w i t h   t h e   b a c k i n g   o f   B a s q u e   a n d   C a t a l a n   n a t i o n a l i s t   l a w m a k e r s
T o   s t a y   i n   o f f i c e   h e   n e e d s   t o   m a i n t a i n   t h e   s u p p o r t   o f   t h e   s e p a r a t i s t   p a r t i e s   t h a t   h a v e   g o v e r n e d   i n   C a t a l o n i a   t h e   w e a l t h y   n o r t h e a s t e r n   r e g i o n   o f   S p a i n   s i n c e   2 0 1 5   B u t   Q u i m   T o r r a   t h e   l e a d e r   o f   t h e   r e g i o n a l   g o v e r n m e n t   h a s   i n s i s t e d   t h a t   h i s   p a r t y   w o u l d   n o t   b a c k   t h e   n a t i o n a l   b u d g e t   u n l e s s   M r   S á n c h e z   a g r e e d   t o   c o n s i d e r   a n o t h e r   i n d e p e n d e n c e   r e f e r e n d u m   w h i c h   t h e   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r   h a s   r e f u s e d   t o   d o
O n   T u e s d a y   M a r í a   J e s ú s   M o n t e r o   S p a i n s   b u d g e t   m i n i s t e r   t o l d   l a w m a k e r s   t h a t   t h e   t r i a l   a n d   c o n f l i c t   o v e r   C a t a l o n i a   h a d   p o l a r i z e d   t h e   d e b a t e   o v e r   t h e   b u d g e t   b u t   i n s i s t e d   t h a t   t h i s   g o v e r n m e n t   w i l l   n o t   c e d e   t o   a n y   b l a c k m a i l   f r o m   s e p a r a t i s t   l a w m a k e r s
W e   h a v e   a l w a y s   b e e n   b e t t i n g   o n   p o l i t i c a l   d i a l o g u e   w i t h i n   o u r   c o n s t i t u t i o n a l   f r a m e w o r k   b u t   w e   h a v e   t o   m a k e   c l e a r   t h e   f r a m e w o r k     n o t h i n g   o u t s i d e   o u r   c o n s t i t u t i o n a l   o r d e r   s h e   s a i d
M r   S á n c h e z s   a t t e m p t   t o   r e n e w   p o l i t i c a l   d i a l o g u e   w i t h   t h e   s e p a r a t i s t s   w a s   r e c e n t l y   l a b e l e d   a s   t r e a s o n   b y   t h e   l e a d e r   o f   S p a i n s   c o n s e r v a t i v e   p a r t y   P a b l o   C a s a d o
A l m o s t   e v e r y   a s p e c t   o f   t h e   c r i m i n a l   c a s e   h a s   b e e n   t h e   s u b j e c t   o f   i n t e n s e   p o l i t i c a l   f e u d i n g   f r o m   t h e   l o c a t i o n   o f   t h e   t r i a l     i n   M a d r i d   r a t h e r   t h a n   B a r c e l o n a     t o   t h e   d e c i s i o n   b y   S p a i n s   j u d i c i a r y   t o   d e n y   b a i l   f o r   m o s t   o f   t h e   d e f e n d a n t s   a n d   t o   k e e p   t h e m   i n   p r i s o n   s i n c e   l a t e   2 0 1 7
T h e   d e f e n d a n t s   s u p p o r t e r s   s e e   t h e   c o n d i t i o n s   a s   r e i n f o r c i n g   t h e   i n d e p e n d e n c e   m o v e m e n t s   c o m p l a i n t s   a b o u t   a n   o p p r e s s i v e   c e n t r a l   g o v e r n m e n t   O p p o n e n t s   o f   s e c e s s i o n i s m   o n   t h e   o t h e r   h a n d   h o p e   t h a t   p r i s o n   s e n t e n c e s   f o r   C a t a l a n   l e a d e r s   w i l l   d e t e r   i l l e g a l   a t t e m p t s   t o   b r e a k   u p   S p a i n
W i t h i n   t h e   m a i n   c h a m b e r   o f   t h e   f r e s c o e d   S u p r e m e   C o u r t   b u i l d i n g   w h i c h   w a s   b u i l t   i n   t h e   1 8 t h   c e n t u r y   a   p a n e l   o f   s e v e n   j u s t i c e s   a n d   t h e   1 2   d e f e n d a n t s   l i s t e n e d   t o   o p e n i n g   a r g u m e n t s   o n   T u e s d a y   O r i o l   J u n q u e r a s   t h e   f o r m e r   d e p u t y   l e a d e r   o f   C a t a l o n i a   o c c u p i e d   t h e   f r o n t b e n c h
A n d r e u   V a n   d e n   E y n d e   a   l a w y e r   f o r   M r   J u n q u e r a s   w h o   o p e n e d   t h e   p r o c e e d i n g s   c a s t   t h e   c a s e   a s   a   m a t t e r   o f   f r e e   e x p r e s s i o n   t h e   r i g h t   t o   p r o t e s t   a n d   t h e   r i g h t   t o   v o t e
W e   w i l l   n o t   m a k e   a   p o l i t i c a l   d e f e n s e   b u t   w e   w i l l   d e f e n d   h u m a n   v a l u e s   a n d   r i g h t s   M r   V a n   d e n   E y n d e   s a i d   T h e   d e f e n d a n t s   h e   a r g u e d   h a v e   a l r e a d y   f a c e d   l e g a l   p r o c e e d i n g   i n   w h i c h   e v e r y   c o n s t i t u t i o n a l   r i g h t   h a s   b e e n   r e s t r i c t e d
A   h a n d f u l   o f   i n d i c t e d   p o l i t i c i a n s   a r e   m i s s i n g   f r o m   t h e   t r i a l   h o w e v e r   i n c l u d i n g   C a r l e s   P u i g d e m o n t   t h e   f o r m e r   l e a d e r   o f   C a t a l o n i a   w h o   f l e d   t o   B r u s s e l s   a n d   h a s   s u c c e s s f u l l y   r e s i s t e d   S p a i n s   a t t e m p t s   t o   e x t r a d i t e   h i m
O u t s i d e   t h e   S u p r e m e   C o u r t   b u i l d i n g   t e l e v i s i o n   c r e w s   u n d e r   h e a v y   p o l i c e   s u r v e i l l a n c e   j o s t l e d   f o r   s p a c e   s o m e   6 0 0   j o u r n a l i s t s   h a v e   b e e n   a c c r e d i t e d   t o   c o v e r   t h e   t r i a l
I n   t h e   s u r r o u n d i n g   s t r e e t s   a   f e w   p r o t e s t e r s   s o m e   o f   w h o m   c a r r i e d   S p a n i s h   f l a g s   d e n o u n c e d   M r   S á n c h e z   f o r   h i s   h a n d l i n g   o f   t h e   C a t a l a n   c o n f l i c t   a n d   c a l l e d   f o r   h i s   o u s t e r     a   s m a l l   e c h o   o f   t h e   a n t i g o v e r n m e n t   d e m o n s t r a t i o n   t h a t   d r e w   t e n s   o f   t h o u s a n d s   o f   p e o p l e   o n   S u n d a y
I   r e l y   o n   t h e   j u d g e s   t o   d o   w h a t   t h e   p o l i t i c i a n s   h a v e n t   d o n e   a n d   p u t   a n   e n d   t o   a n y   a t t e m p t   t o   d e s t r o y   S p a i n   s a i d   S a n t i a g o   P u l i d o   a   h o u s e   p a i n t e r   w h o   h e l d   a   s i g n   w i t h   a   d r a w i n g   o f   t w o   d e f e n d a n t s   w i t h   d e v i l s   h o r n s
S o m e   o f   t h e   d e f e n d a n t s   f a c e   u p   t o   2 5   y e a r s   i n   p r i s o n   i f   f o u n d   g u i l t y   b u t   t h e   s e n t e n c e s   s h o u l d   b e   m u c h   h e a v i e r   M r   P u l i d o   s a i d   T h e y   a r e   r e s p o n s i b l e   f o r   d i v i d i n g   t h e   S p a n i s h   p e o p l e   a n d   m a k i n g   p e o p l e   f i g h t   e a c h   o t h e r   w i t h i n   t h e i r   o w n   c o u n t r y     I   c a n n o t   t h i n k   o f   a   m o r e   s e r i o u s   c r i m e
T h e   t r i a l   i s   e x p e c t e d   t o   l a s t   a t   l e a s t   t h r e e   m o n t h s   B u t   b u d g e t a r y   d e f e a t   o n   W e d n e s d a y   c o u l d   f o r c e   M r   S á n c h e z   t o   c a l l   e l e c t i o n s   b e f o r e   t h e   s u m m e r   w h i c h   m e a n s   t h e y   c o u l d   t a k e   p l a c e   b e f o r e   v e r d i c t s   a r e   m a d e   p u b l i c
O p p o s i t i o n   p o l i t i c i a n s   w a n t   M r   S á n c h e z   t o   h o l d   a   g e n e r a l   e l e c t i o n   o n   M a y   2 6   w h e n   S p a i n   i s   a l r e a d y   t o   h o l d   m u n i c i p a l   a n d   r e g i o n a l   e l e c t i o n s   a s   w e l l   a s   v o t e s   f o r   t h e   E u r o p e a n   P a r l i a m e n t
S p e a k i n g   o u t s i d e   t h e   c o u r t r o o m   M r   V a n   d e n   E y n d e   t h e   d e f e n s e   l a w y e r   s a i d   a   t r i a l   t h a t   h e   v i e w s   a s   a l r e a d y   p o l i t i c i z e d   c o u l d   b e   i n f l u e n c e d   b y   a   s n a p   e l e c t i o n
W e r e   t r y i n g   t o   s t a y   f o c u s e d   o n   t h i s   t r i a l   h e   s a i d   b u t   w e   k n o w   t h a t   w h e n   p o l i t i c s   c h a n g e   e v e r y t h i n g   c a n   c h a n g e



A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   P a u l   M o z u r   a n d   A u s t i n   R a m z y
H O N G   K O N G     T h e   C h i n e s e   e l e c t r o n i c s   g i a n t   H u a w e i   s u e d   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   g o v e r n m e n t   o n   W e d n e s d a y   a r g u i n g   t h a t   i t   h a d   b e e n   u n f a i r l y   a n d   i n c o r r e c t l y   b a n n e d   a s   a   s e c u r i t y   t h r e a t
T h e   l a w s u i t   w i l l   f o r c e   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   t o   m a k e   i t s   c a s e   a g a i n s t   t h e   c o m p a n y   m o r e   p u b l i c   b u t   i t   c o u l d   a l s o   l e a v e   H u a w e i   v u l n e r a b l e   t o   d e e p e r   s c r u t i n y   o f   i t s   b u s i n e s s   p r a c t i c e s   a n d   r e l a t i o n s h i p   w i t h   t h e   C h i n e s e   g o v e r n m e n t
T h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   h a s   a r g u e d   t h a t   H u a w e i   p o s e s   a   r i s k   b e c a u s e   i t s   e q u i p m e n t   c o u l d   b e   u s e d   b y   t h e   C h i n e s e   a u t h o r i t i e s   t o   s p y   o n   c o m m u n i c a t i o n s   a n d   d i s r u p t   t e l e c o m m u n i c a t i o n s   n e t w o r k s   T h a t   p o s i t i o n   h a s   l e d   m a j o r   w i r e l e s s   c a r r i e r s   i n   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   t o   a v o i d   H u a w e i s   e q u i p m e n t
H u a w e i   d e n i e s   t h e   a l l e g a t i o n s   a n d   s a y s   t h e   l a w s u i t   i s   m e a n t   t o   p r o v e   i t   d o e s   n o t   e n g a g e   i n   s u c h   p r a c t i c e s   T h e   c o m p a n y s   p l a n s   t o   f i l e   t h e   l a w s u i t   w e r e   f i r s t   r e p o r t e d   o n   M o n d a y   b y   T h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s
T h e   U S   C o n g r e s s   h a s   r e p e a t e d l y   f a i l e d   t o   p r o d u c e   a n y   e v i d e n c e   t o   s u p p o r t   i t s   r e s t r i c t i o n s   o n   H u a w e i   p r o d u c t s   G u o   P i n g   H u a w e i s   r o t a t i n g   c h a i r m a n   s a i d   i n   a   s t a t e m e n t   a n n o u n c i n g   t h e   f i l i n g   o f   t h e   l a w s u i t   W e   a r e   c o m p e l l e d   t o   t a k e   t h i s   l e g a l   a c t i o n   a s   a   p r o p e r   a n d   l a s t   r e s o r t
T h e   l a w s u i t   w h i c h   w a s   f i l e d   i n   a   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   D i s t r i c t   C o u r t   i n   P l a n o   T e x   w h e r e   H u a w e i   h a s   i t s   A m e r i c a n   h e a d q u a r t e r s   a r g u e s   t h a t   p a r t   o f   t h e   2 0 1 9   N a t i o n a l   D e f e n s e   A u t h o r i z a t i o n   A c t   i s   u n c o n s t i t u t i o n a l   b e c a u s e   i t   s i n g l e s   o u t   H u a w e i   T h e   a c t   b a n s   g o v e r n m e n t   a g e n c i e s   f r o m   c o n t r a c t i n g   w i t h   H u a w e i   o r   c o m p a n i e s   t h a t   u s e   t h e   c o m p a n y s   e q u i p m e n t
H u a w e i   C h i n a s   b i g g e s t   m a k e r   o f   t e l e c o m m u n i c a t i o n s   e q u i p m e n t   h a s   b e e n   u n d e r   p r e s s u r e   f o r   m o n t h s   b y   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   a u t h o r i t i e s   N o w   i t s   s t r i k i n g   b a c k   T h e   s u i t   i s   p a r t   o f   a   m a r k e d l y   a g g r e s s i v e   l e g a l   a n d   p u b l i c   r e l a t i o n s   o f f e n s i v e   t h a t   H u a w e i   h a s   r e c e n t l y   m o u n t e d   t o   p u s h   b a c k   a g a i n s t   s p y i n g   a c c u s a t i o n s
D u r i n g   a   n e w s   b r i e f i n g   b r o a d c a s t   o n   a n   o f f i c i a l   H u a w e i   f e e d   o n   T w i t t e r   M r   G u o   p u l l e d   n o   p u n c h e s
T h e   U S   g o v e r n m e n t   h a s   l o n g   b r a n d e d   H u a w e i   a s   a   t h r e a t   i t   h a s   h a c k e d   o u r   s e r v i c e   a n d   s t o l e n   o u r   e m a i l s   a n d   s o u r c e   c o d e   h e   s a i d   r e f e r r i n g   t o   N a t i o n a l   S e c u r i t y   A g e n c y   d o c u m e n t s   p r o v i d e d   b y   t h e   f o r m e r   c o n t r a c t o r   E d w a r d   J   S n o w d e n   t h a t   s h o w e d   t h e   a g e n c y   h a d   p r i e d   i t s   w a y   i n t o   H u a w e i s   s y s t e m s
S t i l l   t h e   U S   g o v e r n m e n t   i s   s p a r i n g   n o   e f f o r t   t o   s m e a r   t h e   c o m p a n y   a n d   m i s l e a d   t h e   p u b l i c   a b o u t   H u a w e i   h e   a d d e d   T h e   b r i e f i n g   s t r e a m e d   o n   T w i t t e r     a n   A m e r i c a n   i n t e r n e t   p l a t f o r m   b l o c k e d   i n   C h i n a     r e a c h e d   m o r e   t h a n   t w o   m i l l i o n   p e o p l e
I n   D e c e m b e r   M e n g   W a n z h o u   t h e   d a u g h t e r   o f   H u a w e i s   f o u n d e r   a n d   t h e   c h i e f   f i n a n c i a l   o f f i c e r   o f   t h e   c o m p a n y   w a s   d e t a i n e d   i n   C a n a d a   a t   t h e   b e h e s t   o f   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   w h i c h   i s   s e e k i n g   t o   e x t r a d i t e   h e r
H e r   f a t h e r   R e n   Z h e n g f e i   t h e   c o m p a n y s   f o u n d e r   h a s   s i n c e   r e j e c t e d   t h e   c l a i m s   a g a i n s t   h i s   d a u g h t e r   a n d   s a i d   t h a t   h e   w o u l d   w a i t   t o   s e e   i f   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   w o u l d   i n t e r v e n e   i n   t h e   c a s e   M s   M e n g   h a s   b e e n   i n   c o u r t   t h i s   w e e k   i n   V a n c o u v e r   B r i t i s h   C o l u m b i a   a s   p a r t   o f   a n   e x t r a d i t i o n   h e a r i n g
I n   t h e   m e a n t i m e   H u a w e i   h a s   b a t t l e d   a g a i n s t   m a n y   o f   i t s   c u s t o m e r s   a n d   n a t i o n s   t h a t   h a v e   s a i d   t h e y   w o u l d   p u l l   b a c k   f r o m   b u y i n g   i t s   p r o d u c t s   C h i n a   h a s   a l s o   r e t a l i a t e d   a g a i n s t   C a n a d a   b y   d e t a i n i n g   s e v e r a l   C a n a d i a n   c i t i z e n s   T h i s   w e e k   C a n a d i a n   o f f i c i a l s   a l s o   c o m p l a i n e d   t h a t   C h i n a   h a d   b e g u n   t o   s u s p e n d   t h e   i m p o r t   o f   c a n o l a   f r o m   t h e   c o u n t r y
L u   K a n g   t h e   s p o k e s m a n   f o r   C h i n a s   M i n i s t r y   o f   F o r e i g n   A f f a i r s   s a i d   o n   T h u r s d a y   t h a t   t h e   C h i n e s e   d e c i s i o n   w a s   b a s e d   o n   t h e   d i s c o v e r y   o f   p e s t s   i n   C a n a d i a n   c a n o l a
C h i n a   h a s   a   l o n g   h i s t o r y   o f   i n t e r r u p t i n g   t r a d e   w i t h   o t h e r   c o u n t r i e s   i n   t h e   m i d d l e   o f   d i p l o m a t i c   s p a t s   I n   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0   C h i n a   h a l t e d   t h e   e x p o r t   o f   r a r e   e a r t h   m e t a l s   t o   J a p a n   f o r   t w o   m o n t h s   d u r i n g   a   d i s p u t e   o v e r   t h e   s o v e r e i g n t y   o f   a   c l u s t e r   o f   t i n y   i s l a n d s   b e t w e e n   J a p a n   a n d   T a i w a n   W e e k s   l a t e r   C h i n a   s u s p e n d e d   t r a d e   t a l k s   w i t h   N o r w a y   a n d   t h e n   h a l t e d   t h e   i m p o r t   o f   N o r w e g i a n   s a l m o n   a f t e r   t h e   N o b e l   P e a c e   P r i z e   w a s   a w a r d e d   t o   a   C h i n e s e   d i s s i d e n t   b y   a   N o r w e g i a n   c o m m i t t e e
H u a w e i s   l a w s u i t   a r g u e s   t h a t   b y   s i n g l i n g   o u t   t h e   c o m p a n y   C o n g r e s s   h a s   v i o l a t e d   c o n s t i t u t i o n a l   p r i n c i p l e s   o n   t h e   s e p a r a t i o n   o f   p o w e r s   a n d   a l s o   t h e   b i l l   o f   a t t a i n d e r   c l a u s e   w h i c h   p r o h i b i t s   l e g i s l a t i o n   t h a t   s i n g l e s   o u t   a   p e r s o n   o r   e n t i t y   f o r   p u n i s h m e n t   w i t h o u t   t r i a l
T h e   a c t u a l   a n d   i n t e n d e d   e f f e c t   o f   t h e s e   p r o h i b i t i o n s   i s   t o   b a r   H u a w e i   f r o m   s i g n i f i c a n t   s e g m e n t s   o f   t h e   U S   m a r k e t   f o r   t e l e c o m m u n i c a t i o n s   e q u i p m e n t   a n d   s e r v i c e s   t h e r e b y   i n f l i c t i n g   i m m e d i a t e   a n d   o n g o i n g   e c o n o m i c   c o m p e t i t i v e   a n d   r e p u t a t i o n a l   h a r m s   o n   H u a w e i   t h e   c o m p a n y s   l a w y e r s   w r o t e   i n   t h e   s u i t
T h e y   a d d e d   t h a t   t h e   p r o h i b i t i o n s   h a v e   b e e n   c a r r i e d   o u t   w i t h o u t   a   f a i r   h e a r i n g   o r   t h e   o p p o r t u n i t y   t o   r e b u t   t h e   a l l e g a t i o n s   a g a i n s t   i t   a n d   w i t h o u t   o p p o r t u n i t y   f o r   e s c a p e
T h e   R u s s i a n   c y b e r s e c u r i t y   f i r m   K a s p e r s k y   L a b   f i l e d   a n d   u l t i m a t e l y   l o s t   a   s i m i l a r   l e g a l   c h a l l e n g e   t w o   y e a r s   a g o   A f t e r   t h e   D e p a r t m e n t   o f   H o m e l a n d   S e c u r i t y   d i r e c t e d   f e d e r a l   a g e n c i e s   t o   b a n   K a s p e r s k y   p r o d u c t s   f r o m   t h e i r   s y s t e m s   C o n g r e s s   c o d i f i e d   t h e   d i r e c t i v e   i n t o   a   l a w
K a s p e r s k y   f i l e d   t w o   l a w s u i t s   a r g u i n g   i t   h a d   b e e n   s i n g l e d   o u t   f o r   p u n i s h m e n t   w i t h o u t   a   t r i a l   A   j u d g e   u l t i m a t e l y   d i s m i s s e d   t h e   l a w s u i t s   p o i n t i n g   o u t   t h e y   c a m e   f r o m   a   l e g i t i m a t e   d e s i r e   t o   p r o t e c t   A m e r i c a n   n e t w o r k s
T h e   J u s t i c e   D e p a r t m e n t   f i l e d   c r i m i n a l   c h a r g e s   a g a i n s t   H u a w e i   i n   J a n u a r y   b u t   t h o s e   c a s e s   f o c u s   o n   t h e   c o m p a n y s   c o n n e c t i o n s   t o   e v a d i n g   A m e r i c a n   s a n c t i o n s   o n   I r a n   a n d   i t s   t h e f t   o f   i n t e l l e c t u a l   p r o p e r t y   N e i t h e r   r e l a t e s   t o   t h e   c o r e   q u e s t i o n   f a c e d   b y   g o v e r n m e n t s   a r o u n d   t h e   w o r l d   a b o u t   w h e t h e r   u s i n g   H u a w e i s   e q u i p m e n t   i n   n e w   5 G   n e t w o r k s   c a u s e s   s e c u r i t y   c o n c e r n s
T h e   n e w   l a w s u i t   s e e k s   t o   f o c u s   o n   t h a t   q u e s t i o n   a n d   t o   p u s h   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   g o v e r n m e n t   t o   m a k e   i t s   c a s e   W h i l e   H u a w e i   i s   u n l i k e l y   t o   r e v e r s e   A m e r i c a n   o p p o s i t i o n   t o   t h e   c o m p a n y   i t   m a y   h o p e   t o   w i n   o v e r   g o v e r n m e n t   o f f i c i a l s   i n   o t h e r   c o u n t r i e s   i n c l u d i n g   s o m e   i n   E u r o p e   w h o   w i l l   p r o b a b l y   b e   f o l l o w i n g   t h e   A m e r i c a n   l a w s u i t   c l o s e l y
D e b a t e   a b o u t   t h e   s e c u r i t y   o f   H u a w e i s   s y s t e m s   h a s   c o m e   a t   a   c r i t i c a l   m o m e n t   w i t h   c o u n t r i e s   a r o u n d   t h e   w o r l d   p r e p a r i n g   t o   s p e n d   h u n d r e d s   o f   b i l l i o n s   o f   d o l l a r s   o n   e x p a n d i n g   c e l l u l a r   n e t w o r k s   t o   n e x t   g e n e r a t i o n   5 G   t e c h n o l o g y
T h e   n e w   n e t w o r k s   w i l l   h a v e   f a s t e r   s p e e d s   b u t   a l s o   b e   u s e d   t o   c o n n e c t   a   b e w i l d e r i n g   n u m b e r   o f   n e w   s e n s o r s   a n d   d a t a c o l l e c t i o n   s y s t e m s   a l o n g s i d e   s m a r t p h o n e s   T h a t   w o u l d   m a k e   v u l n e r a b i l i t i e s   i n   t h e   n e t w o r k s   p o t e n t i a l l y   m o r e   s e r i o u s   t h a n   w i t h   t h e   c e l l u l a r   n e t w o r k s   o f   t h e   p a s t
M r   L u   t h e   C h i n e s e   F o r e i g n   M i n i s t r y   s p o k e s m a n   e x p r e s s e d   s u p p o r t   f o r   H u a w e i s   l e g a l   a c t i o n
W e   b e l i e v e   t h a t   i t   i s   p e r f e c t l y   j u s t i f i e d   a n d   f u l l y   u n d e r s t a n d a b l e   f o r   c o m p a n i e s   t o   s a f e g u a r d   t h e i r   l e g i t i m a t e   r i g h t s   a n d   i n t e r e s t s   t h r o u g h   l e g a l   m e a n s   h e   s a i d
M a n y   C h i n e s e   e x p r e s s e d   s u p p o r t   o n   s o c i a l   m e d i a   f o r   H u a w e i s   l e g a l   s t a n d   a g a i n s t   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   S o m e   o t h e r s   n o t e d   w i t h   s a r c a s m   t h e   d i f f i c u l t i e s   o f   s i m i l a r   l e g a l   r e c o u r s e   f o r   c o m p a n i e s   o r   i n d i v i d u a l s   w i t h i n   C h i n a s   s y s t e m
S o   y o u   c a n   s u e   a   g o v e r n m e n t   w r o t e   o n e   u s e r   o n   W e i b o   t h e   C h i n e s e   s o c i a l   m e d i a   s e r v i c e   I n t e r e s t i n g   A l l   o f   a   s u d d e n   I m   t h i n k i n g   a c t u a l l y   I   d o n t   d a r e   t h i n k   a b o u t   i t
K e i t h   B r a d s h e r   c o n t r i b u t e d   r e p o r t i n g   f r o m   S h a n g h a i   Z o e   M o u   c o n t r i b u t e d   r e s e a r c h   f r o m   B e i j i n g   a n d   Q i q i n g   L i n   f r o m   S h a n g h a i



A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   A s s o c i a t e d   P r e s s
M O G A D I S H U   S o m a l i a     G u n m e n   f r o m   a n   I s l a m i s t   m i l i t a n t   g r o u p   s t o r m e d   a   g o v e r n m e n t   b u i l d i n g   i n   S o m a l i a s   c a p i t a l   M o g a d i s h u   a f t e r   a   s u i c i d e   c a r   b o m b i n g   o n   S a t u r d a y   k i l l i n g   a t   l e a s t   f i v e   p e o p l e   i n c l u d i n g   t h e   c o u n t r y s   d e p u t y   l a b o r   m i n i s t e r   t h e   p o l i c e   s a i d
S o m a l i   s e c u r i t y   f o r c e s   f o u g h t   a n   h o u r s l o n g   g u n   b a t t l e   w i t h   a t   l e a s t   f i v e   a s s a i l a n t s   t o   r e t a k e   c o n t r o l   o f   t h e   b u i l d i n g   w h i c h   h o u s e s   t h e   m i n i s t r i e s   o f   l a b o r   a n d   w o r k s   a   p o l i c e   o f f i c e r   C a p t   M o h a m e d   H u s s e i n   s a i d
T h e   R e u t e r s   n e w s   a g e n c y   c i t i n g   p o l i c e   s o u r c e s   p u t   t h e   d e a t h   t o l l   a t   t h e   e n d   o f   t h e   b a t t l e   a t   1 5
S a q a r   I b r a h i m   A b d a l l a   S o m a l i a s   d e p u t y   m i n i s t e r   o f   l a b o r   a n d   s o c i a l   a f f a i r s   w a s   k i l l e d   i n   h i s   g r o u n d f l o o r   o f f i c e   s h o r t l y   a f t e r   t h e   g u n m e n   s t o r m e d   t h e   b u i l d i n g   C a p t a i n   H u s s e i n   s a i d
S a t u r d a y   i s   a   w o r k i n g   d a y   i n   S o m a l i a   a n d   d o z e n s   o f   p e o p l e   w e r e   b e l i e v e d   t o   b e   i n   t h e   b u i l d i n g   a t   t h e   t i m e   o f   t h e   a t t a c k
T h e   S h a b a b   c l a i m e d   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   f o r   t h e   a t t a c k   a t   t h e   b u i l d i n g   w h i c h   i s   n o t   f a r   f r o m   t h e   h e a d q u a r t e r s   o f   t h e   S o m a l i   i n t e l l i g e n c e   a g e n c y   A s   t h e   a t t a c k   u n f o l d e d   g u n f i r e   c o u l d   b e   h e a r d   f r o m   i n   t h e   b u i l d i n g   W h i t e   s m o k e   b i l l o w e d   f r o m   t h e   s c e n e   w i t n e s s e s   s a i d
A   s i m i l a r   a t t a c k   t a r g e t i n g   a   b u s y   a r e a   i n   M o g a d i s h u   i n   F e b r u a r y   k i l l e d   a t   l e a s t   2 4   p e o p l e   T h a t   a t t a c k   a l s o   b e g a n   w i t h   a   p a i r   o f   c a r   b o m b s   e x p l o d i n g   i n   a   p o p u l a r   a r e a   o f   M o g a d i s h u   w h e r e   S o m a l i s   w e r e   r e l a x i n g   a t   r e s t a u r a n t s
T h e   S h a b a b   w h o   h a v e   l i n k s   t o   A l   Q a e d a   f r e q u e n t l y   c a r r y   o u t   s u i c i d e   b o m b i n g s   t a r g e t i n g   p u b l i c   p l a c e s   h o t e l s   a n d   g o v e r n m e n t   o f f i c e s   T h e y   a r e   A f r i c a s   m o s t   a c t i v e   I s l a m i s t   m i l i t a n t   g r o u p   a n d   h a v e   b e e n   f i g h t i n g   f o r   y e a r s   t o   t a k e   p o w e r   a n d   c r e a t e   a n   I s l a m i c   s t a t e   i n   S o m a l i a
T h e   g r o u p   c o n t i n u e s   t o   m o u n t   l e t h a l   a t t a c k s   d e s p i t e   b e i n g   p u s h e d   o u t   o f   M o g a d i s h u   i n   p a r t   b y   A f r i c a n   U n i o n   p e a c e k e e p e r s   I t   m o s t l y   o p e r a t e s   f r o m   r u r a l   a r e a s   i n   t h e   c o u n t r y s   s o u t h
T h e   g r o u p   h a s   c a r r i e d   o u t   m a n y   d e a d l y   a t t a c k s   i n   n e i g h b o r i n g   K e n y a   i n   r e t a l i a t i o n   o v e r   K e n y a s   d e p l o y m e n t   i n   2 0 1 1   o f   p e a c e k e e p e r s   i n   S o m a l i a
T h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   m i l i t a r y   h a s   c a r r i e d   o u t   a   n u m b e r   o f   d e a d l y   a i r s t r i k e s   i n   r e c e n t   m o n t h s   a g a i n s t   t h e   S h a b a b


A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
F r a n c e   D i s p a t c h
B y   A d a m   N o s s i t e r
B A Y O N N E   F r a n c e     T h e   g o v e r n m e n t   i n   P a r i s   d i s a p p r o v e s   B u t   t h e   l o c a l   m a y o r   d o e s n t   c a r e   H e   s a y s   h e   w i l l   c o n t i n u e   s h e l t e r i n g   t h e   A f r i c a n s   c r o s s i n g   t h e   S p a n i s h   b o r d e r   i n t o   F r a n c e
F o r   J e a n R e n é   E t c h e g a r a y   m a y o r   o f   B a y o n n e   a   q u i e t   a n d   r e f i n e d   c i t y   i n   t h e   F r e n c h   B a s q u e   C o u n t r y   2 2   m i l e s   f r o m   t h e   b o r d e r   i t   i s   a   m a t t e r   o f   n e c e s s i t y   a n d   h u m a n i t a r i a n   o b l i g a t i o n
S i n c e   I t a l y   a l l   b u t   c l o s e d   i t s   b o r d e r s   t o   m i g r a n t s   a n d     F r a n c e   h a s   t r i e d   t o   c l o s e   i t s   b o r d e r   t o   m i g r a n t s   c o m i n g   f r o m   I t a l y   S p a i n   h a s   b e c o m e   t h e   p r i m e   g a t e w a y   i n t o   E u r o p e   f o r   m i g r a n t s   f r o m   A f r i c a   w i t h   m o r e   t h a n   5 7 0 0 0   a r r i v i n g   l a s t   y e a r
M a n y   a r e   n o w   c r o s s i n g   i n t o   F r a n c e   a n d   t r a n s i t i n g   t h r o u g h   B a y o n n e   a   p l a c e   w h e r e   e v e r y t h i n g   i s   r e a s o n a b l e   S t e n d h a l   w r o t e   i n   t h e   m i d 1 9 t h   c e n t u r y
B u t   w h a t   M r   E t c h e g a r a y   s e e s   a s   h i s   r e a s o n a b l e   s t a n c e   h a s   p u t   h i m   a t   w a r   w i t h   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   o f   P r e s i d e n t   E m m a n u e l   M a c r o n   e v e n   a s   t h e   m a y o r   h a s   b e c o m e   a   c a s e   s t u d y   i n   t h e   f r o n t l i n e   m a n a g e m e n t   o f   E u r o p e s   m i g r a t i o n   c r i s i s   a n d   i t s   c o n t r a d i c t i o n s
T h e   m a y o r   d o e s n t   n e c e s s a r i l y   w a n t   t h e s e   y o u n g   m e n   p r e d o m i n a n t l y   f r o m   F r e n c h s p e a k i n g   W e s t   A f r i c a n   c o u n t r i e s   l i k e   G u i n e a   M a l i   a n d   I v o r y   C o a s t   h a n g i n g   a r o u n d   f o r e v e r   H e   a l s o   d o e s n t   w a n t   t h e m   c a m p i n g   o u t   o n   h i s   s t r e e t s   o f   t a l l   o l d   h a l f t i m b e r e d   B a s q u e   h o u s e s   n e s t l e d   a l o n g   s l o w m o v i n g   r i v e r s
B u t   h e   w a n t s   t h e   m i g r a n t s   t o   e x i s t   w h i l e   i n   h i s   c i t y   i n   a   c o n d i t i o n   o f   d i g n i t y   a s   h e   p u t   i t   I   d o n t   t h i n k   I   c a n   d o   l e s s   h e   s a i d
S o   M r   E t c h e g a r a y   t o o k   t h e   y o u n g   m e n   o f f   t h e   s t r e e t s   r e q u i s i t i o n e d   a n   o l d   m i l i t a r y   b a r r a c k s   n e a r   t h e   t r a i n   s t a t i o n   p u t   c a m p   b e d s   i n   i t   b r o u g h t   i n   h o t   m e a l s   a n d   k e e p s   t h e   p l a c e   h e a t e d
T h e   y o u n g   m e n   g r e e t   h i m   w a r m l y   w h e n   h e   s h o w s   u p   s e v e r a l   t i m e s   a   d a y
G o o d   m a n   s a i d   o n e   o f   h i s   t e m p o r a r y   g u e s t s   A b d u l   S y l l a   a   2 9 y e a r o l d   f r o m   G u i n e a   w h o   h a r b o r s   v a g u e   h o p e s   o f   s t u d y i n g   C l o s e   t o   t h e   p e o p l e
O f f i c i a l   F r a n c e   k e e p s   w a g g i n g   i t s   f i n g e r   a t   t h e   c i t y s   m a y o r
I t   i s   a b s o l u t e l y   o u t   o f   t h e   q u e s t i o n   t h a t   t h e   s t a t e   w o u l d   g i v e   t h e   s l i g h t e s t   a i d   t o   t h e   m a y o r s   s h e l t e r   G i l b e r t   P a y e t   w h o   u n t i l   r e c e n t l y   w a s   M r   M a c r o n s   r e g i o n a l   r e p r e s e n t a t i v e   f o r   t h e   I n t e r i o r   M i n i s t r y   t e s t i l y   t o l d   l o c a l   r e p o r t e r s   l a s t   m o n t h
T h e   m a y o r   w a s   u n f a z e d
I   s a w   t h a t   t h e   f r o n t i e r s   w e r e   c l o s i n g   a n d   a s   f a r   a s   I m   c o n c e r n e d   t h e r e   a r e   s o m e   f u n d a m e n t a l   r i g h t s   t h a t   c a n t   b e   t r a m p l e d   o n   M r   E t c h e g a r a y   s a i d   e v o k i n g   B a y o n n e s   h e r i t a g e   a s   a   r e f u g e   f o r   J e w s   f l e e i n g   t h e   S p a n i s h   I n q u i s i t i o n   a n d   a s   t h e   b i r t h p l a c e   o f   t h e   g r e a t   J e w i s h   j u r i s t   R e n é   C a s s i n   w h o   h e l p e d   d r a f t   t h e   U n i v e r s a l   D e c l a r a t i o n   o f   H u m a n   R i g h t s
T h e   F r e n c h   s t a t e s   a t t i t u d e   t o w a r d   t h e   m a y o r   i l l u s t r a t e s   M r   M a c r o n s   o w n   a m b i g u i t i e s   o n   t h e   s u b j e c t   o f   m i g r a t i o n
g e r m a n y
2 0 0   m i l e s
P a r i s
s w i t z
F r a n c e
A t l a n t i c
O c e a n
i t a l y
M e d i t e r r a n e a n   S e a
s p a i n
3 0   m i l e s
B a y o n n e
B a y   o f   B i s c a y
f r a n c e
I r u n
b a s q u e   c o u n t r y
s p a i n
B y   T h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s
O n   t h e   o n e   h a n d   h e   h a s   e x a l t e d   F r a n c e s   h u m a n i t a r i a n   t r a d i t i o n s   a n d   a s k e d   t h e   p o l i c e   t o   t r e a t   m i g r a n t s   w i t h   f a i r n e s s
O n   t h e   o t h e r   h i s   g o v e r n m e n t   h a s   r e f u s e d   a d m i s s i o n   t o   m i g r a n t   s h i p s   p u t   m i g r a n t   r i g h t s   a d v o c a t e s   o n   t r i a l   a n d   b o a s t e d   a b o u t   h o w   m a n y   f o r e i g n e r s   h a v e   b e e n   e x p e l l e d   o r   t u r n e d   b a c k   a t   f r o n t i e r s
T h e   I t a l i a n s   h a v e   a n g r i l y   a c c u s e d   t h e   F r e n c h   o f   h y p o c r i s y   a n d   M r   E t c h e g a r a y   h a s   u s e d   t h e   s a m e   w o r d
T h e   p r e f e c t   s a i d   N o   n o   n o   n o   n o   n o     r e c a l l e d   M a ï t é   E t c h e v e r r y   a   y o u n g   v o l u n t e e r   w h o   r u n s   t h e   s h e l t e r   i n   B a y o n n e
B u t   t h e   m a y o r   m e r e l y   c a r r i e d   o n     d i s t r i b u t i n g   b l a n k e t s   i n q u i r i n g   a b o u t   t h e   m i g r a n t s   w e l l b e i n g   a n d   p a y i n g   f o r   t h e   c e n t e r   o u t   o f   t h e   b u d g e t   o f   t h e   l o c a l   a g g l o m e r a t i o n   o f   t o w n s   w h i c h   h e   r u n s
T h e y   s a i d   Y o u r e   j u s t   g o i n g   t o   c r e a t e   a   p u l l   f a c t o r   f o r   e v e n   m o r e   m i g r a n t s     M r   E t c h e g a r a y   s a i d   w i t h   a   l a u g h   d u r i n g   a n   i n t e r v i e w   i n   h i s   o f f i c e   h e r e   t h i s   p a s t   w e e k
T h e y   s a i d   Y o u r e   g o i n g   t o   c r e a t e   a n o t h e r   C a l a i s   h e   s a i d   r e f e r r i n g   t o   s q u a l i d   e n c a m p m e n t s   i n   n o r t h e r n   F r a n c e   s i n c e   d e m o l i s h e d   w h e r e   t h o u s a n d s   o f   m i g r a n t s   w a i t e d   i n   m u d   c o l d   a n d   m i s e r y   h o p i n g   t o   g e t   t o   E n g l a n d
S o   f a r   i t   h a s n t   t u r n e d   o u t   t h a t   w a y
I   d o n t   f e e l   I m   d o i n g   a n y t h i n g   c o n t r a r y   t o   t h e   l a w   M r   E t c h e g a r a y   s a i d   m i l d l y
L o o k   I m   n o t   s o m e   k i n d   o f   r a d i c a l   c r a z y   p e r s o n   h e   c o n t i n u e d   n o t i n g   t h a t   m o s t   m i g r a n t s   s t a y   a   f e w   d a y s   t h e n   m o v e   o n
H e   e v e n   m o v e d   a   b u s   s t o p   f o r   l o w c o s t   t r a v e l   s e r v i c e s   i n   f r o n t   o f   t h e   s h e l t e r   t o   m a k e   i t   e a s i e r   f o r   m i g r a n t s   t o   l e a v e   A n d   h e   w e n t   t o   w a r   w i t h   t h e   b u s   c o m p a n y   b e c a u s e   i t s   d r i v e r s   w e r e   d e m a n d i n g   i l l e g a l l y   t h a t   t h e   A f r i c a n s   p r o d u c e   i d e n t i t y   p a p e r s
W e   a r e   t h e   o n l y   s q u a t t e r s   i n   F r a n c e   s u p p o r t e d   b y   C i t y   H a l l   M s   E t c h e v e r r y   s a i d   g r i n n i n g
T h a t   m a y o r   h e s   i n   d e e p   a g a i n s t   t h e   p r e f e c t   a n d   v i s i b l y   a g a i n s t   t h e   i n t e r i o r   m i n i s t e r   s a i d   M s   E t c h e v e r r y   a   l a w   s t u d e n t   I t s   r e a l l y   k i n d   o f   e x t r a o r d i n a r y
A   s e l f d e s c r i b e d   r a d i c a l   p r o B a s q u e   i n d e p e n d e n c e   l e f t i s t   s h e   h a s   f o u n d   h e r s e l f   i n   p o l i t i c a l   o p p o s i t i o n   t o   t h e   6 6 y e a r o l d   c e n t e r r i g h t   m a y o r   b e f o r e   N o t   t h i s   t i m e
T h e   m i g r a n t s   c o m e   a n d   g o   a t   t h e   c e n t e r   a l l   d a y   m o s t   o f t e n   a r r i v i n g   i n   i n c o n s p i c u o u s   c a r s   w i t h   t r a f f i c k e r s   T h e   l o c a l   p o l i c e   s a y   t h e   s e e d y   d i s t r i c t   a r o u n d   t h e   t r a i n   s t a t i o n   i n   t h e   n e a r b y   S p a n i s h   b o r d e r   c i t y   o f   I r ú n   h a s   b e c o m e   a   h i v e   o f   t r a f f i c k i n g
O n e   r e c e n t   d a y   a   g r o u p   o f   s i x   y o u n g   A f r i c a n   m e n   w i t h   b a c k p a c k s   h u r r i e d   i n   s i n g l e   f i l e   a c r o s s   a   p l a z a   i n   I r ú n   a n d   d o w n   a   f l i g h t   o f   s t a i r s
T h e y   w e r e   b u n d l e d   i n t o   a   w a i t i n g   c a r   t h a t   q u i c k l y   d r o v e   o f f   W a t c h i n g   f r o m   t h e   p l a z a   a b o v e   w e r e   s e v e r a l   s p o t t e r s   t a l k i n g   f u r t i v e l y   i n t o   t h e i r   p h o n e s   A l l   o f   i t   h a p p e n e d   r i g h t   u n d e r   t h e   n o s e s   o f   a   g r o u p   o f   S p a n i s h   p o l i c e   o f f i c e r s   2 0   y a r d s   a w a y   w h o   d i d   n o t   s t i r
F r e n c h   a n d   S p a n i s h   o f f i c e r s   w a i t   o n   o p p o s i t e   s i d e s   o f   a   b r i d g e   c r o s s i n g   t h e   r i v e r   t h a t   s e p a r a t e s   S p a i n   a n d   F r a n c e   i n   t h i s   c o r n e r   T h e   b o r d e r   i s   o p e n   u n l e s s   y o u   a r e   a   m i g r a n t     i n   w h i c h   c a s e   y o u   m i g h t   g e t   s t o p p e d   c h e c k e d   a n d   s e n t   b a c k
I f   t h e   m i g r a n t s   m a k e   i t   t o   t h e   s h e l t e r   i n   B a y o n n e   h o w e v e r   t h e y   h a v e   a   t e m p o r a r y   r e f u g e
T h e   l o c a l   p o l i c e   d o   n o t   e n t e r   t h e   c o u r t y a r d   t h a t   w a s   c o n v e r t e d   i n t o   t h e   s h e l t e r   w h e r e   a   l o n g   l o w   h a l l   i s   s t a f f e d   w i t h   v o l u n t e e r s   a n d   s t o c k e d   w i t h   d o n a t i o n s   o f   f o o d   a n d   c l o t h i n g   T h e   y o u n g   m e n   s t a y i n g   t h e r e   p l a y   s c r a b b l e   o r   l i e   q u i e t l y   o n   c a m p   b e d s   g r a t e f u l   t h a t   t h e   w o r s t   s e e m s   b e h i n d   t h e m
I   n e v e r   w a n t   t o   s e e   t h e   s e a   a g a i n   s a i d   I b r a h i m a   D o u m b i a   a   y o u n g   G u i n e a n   w h o   c r o s s e d   t h e   M e d i t e r r a n e a n   b y   b o a t   I   h a d   t h e   f r i g h t   o f   m y   l i f e
W i t h   t h e   a r r i v a l   o f   c o l d   w e a t h e r   i n   t h e   f a l l   h e   k n e w   t h e   g r o w i n g   m i g r a n t   p o p u l a t i o n   i n   B a y o n n e   c o u l d   n o   l o n g e r   s t a y   i n   o n e   o f   t h e   c i t y s   m a i n   s q u a r e s   w h e r e   p e o p l e   h a d   b e e n   c a m p i n g   o u t
I t   w a s   c o l d   a n d   r a i n i n g   M r   E t c h e g a r a y   s a i d   W e   c o u l d n t   l e a v e   t h e m   t h e r e   a n y m o r e   T h e y   w e r e   c o l d   s i c k   a n d   h u n g r y
T h e   m a y o r   f o r m e d   p l a n s   f o r   t h e   i n i t i a t i v e   q u i c k l y   H e   c a m e   d i r e c t l y   t o   t h e   s q u a r e   M s   E t c h e v e r r y   r e c a l l e d   a d d i n g   t h a t   s h e   r e m e m b e r e d   h i m   s a y i n g   I l l   b e   b a c k   i n   a   h a l f h o u r
W h e n   h e   r e t u r n e d   h e   l e d   v o l u n t e e r s   a n d   m i g r a n t s   t o   a n   u n d e r g r o u n d   p a r k i n g   l o t   f o r   t h e   m u n i c i p a l   p o l i c e     a   t e m p o r a r y   s o l u t i o n   u n t i l   s o m e t h i n g   b e t t e r   c o u l d   b e   f o u n d
H e   a c c o m p a n i e d   t h e m   a n d   s h o w e d   t h e m   w h e r e   t h e   t o i l e t s   w e r e   M s   E t c h e v e r r y   r e c o u n t e d   H e   s a w   t h a t   t h e y   w e r e   q u i e t   a n d   t h a t   w e   w e r e   j u s t   y o u n g   p e o p l e   h e l p i n g   o t h e r   y o u n g   p e o p l e   B u t   w e   n e v e r   i m a g i n e d   t h a t   i t   w o u l d   e n d   l i k e   t h i s   i n   a   c e n t e r   f i n a n c e d   b y   t h e   m u n i c i p a l i t y
I t   i s   a   m a y o r s   d u t y   M r   E t c h e g a r a y   s a i d
T h e   s t a t e   j u s t   d o e s n t   w a n t   t o   k n o w   h e   a d d e d   B u t   m e   I v e   g o t   t o   k n o w   A n d   t h i s   w a s   a n   e m e r g e n c y



A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B i t s
B y   J a m i e   C o n d l i f f e
H i   I m   J a m i e   C o n d l i f f e   G r e e t i n g s   f r o m   L o n d o n   H e r e s   a   l o o k   a t   t h e   w e e k s   t e c h   n e w s
T h e r e   i s   l i t t l e   a s   f a s h i o n a b l e   i n   2 0 1 9   a s   t h e   d e s i r e   t o   c u r b   B i g   T e c h s   p o w e r   B u t   k n o w i n g   h o w   f a r   r e g u l a t o r s   s h o u l d   g o   i n   p u t t i n g   l i m i t s   o n   S i l i c o n   V a l l e y s   l a r g e s t   c o m p a n i e s   i s n t   s t r a i g h t f o r w a r d
A t   o n e   e x t r e m e   t h e r e   a r e   c a l l s   t o   b r e a k   u p   B i g   T e c h     S e n a t o r   E l i z a b e t h   W a r r e n   g r a b b e d   h e a d l i n e s   d u r i n g   t h e   w e e k   w h e n   s h e   c a l l e d   f o r   j u s t   t h a t   M s   W a r r e n   a   M a s s a c h u s e t t s   D e m o c r a t   a r g u e d   t h a t   c o m p a n i e s   s h o u l d n t   o f f e r   t h e i r   o w n   p r o d u c t s   o n   p l a t f o r m s   t h e y   c o n t r o l l e d   l i k e   A p p l e s   s e l l i n g   a p p s   o n   i t s   A p p   S t o r e     s o m e t h i n g   S p o t i f y   c a l l e d   o u t   t o   E u r o p e a n   r e g u l a t o r s   o n   W e d n e s d a y   S h e   a l s o   s a i d   s h e   w o u l d   r o l l   b a c k   a n t i c o m p e t i t i v e   a c q u i s i t i o n s   s u c h   a s   F a c e b o o k s   t a k e o v e r s   o f   I n s t a g r a m   a n d   W h a t s A p p
H e r   p i t c h   i s n t   p e r f e c t   a s   T h e   N e w   Y o r k   T i m e s s   K e v i n   R o o s e   p o i n t e d   o u t     i t s   t o o   g e n e r i c   m i s s e s   e a s y   w i n s   a n d   o v e r l o o k s   s o m e   b i g   i s s u e s   B u t   i t   i s   a   b o l d   i n s p i r i n g   r a l l y   c r y   f o r   B i g   T e c h s   b i g g e s t   c r i t i c s
A t   t h e   o t h e r   e n d   o f   t h e   s p e c t r u m   t e c h   c o m p a n i e s   I d e a l l y   t h e   l i k e s   o f   F a c e b o o k   a n d   G o o g l e   w o u l d   l o v e   t o   p e r p e t u a l l y   o p e r a t e   i n   t h e   l i g h t l y   r e g u l a t e d   w o r l d   t h a t   h e l p e d   t h e m   g r o w   s o   q u i c k l y   B u t   e v e n   M a r k   Z u c k e r b e r g   F a c e b o o k s   c h i e f   e x e c u t i v e   a c k n o w l e d g e d   t h a t   i t   w a s   i n e v i t a b l e   t h a t   t h e r e   w i l l   b e   s o m e   r e g u l a t i o n   w h e n   h e   t e s t i f i e d   t o   t h e   H o u s e   E n e r g y   a n d   C o m m e r c e   C o m m i t t e e   i n   A p r i l
T h e r e s   p l e n t y   o f   r o o m   b e t w e e n   t h o s e   e x t r e m e s   T a k e   f o r   e x a m p l e   a   r e p o r t   p u b l i s h e d   W e d n e s d a y   b y   t h e   B r i t i s h   g o v e r n m e n t   w h i c h   c a l l e d   f o r   a n   o v e r h a u l   o f   a n t i t r u s t   p o l i c i e s   f o r   B i g   T e c h   I t s   m a i n   p r o p o s a l   t h a t   a   n e w   r e g u l a t o r   i d e n t i f y   c o m p a n i e s   w i t h   s t r a t e g i c   m a r k e t   s t a t u s   t h e n   b l o c k   s o m e   a c t i v i t i e s     s u c h   a s   p r o m o t i n g   t h e i r   o w n   p r o d u c t s   o r   s e r v i c e s   i n   s e a r c h   r e s u l t s   o v e r   t h o s e   b e l o n g i n g   t o   c o m p e t i t o r s   h e l l o   G o o g l e
T h a t   t h e   r e p o r t s   a u t h o r s   s a y   i s   a   m o r e   p r o b u s i n e s s   a n d   p r o c o n s u m e r   s o l u t i o n   t h a n   c h a n g i n g   a n t i t r u s t   l a w   t o   d r i v e   b r e a k u p   o f   b u s i n e s s e s
S o   w h o s   r i g h t   M r   Z u c k e r b e r g   a t   l e a s t   w h e n   h e   s a y s   r e g u l a t o r y   i n t e r v e n t i o n   i s   i n e v i t a b l e   T h e r e s   s t r o n g   b i p a r t i s a n   s u p p o r t   f o r   s u c h   r e g u l a t i o n   A s   f o r   w h e r e   a   l i n e   s h o u l d   b e   d r a w n   t h a t s   h a r d e r   t o   s a y
B r e a k i n g   u p   b i g   c o m p a n i e s   i s n t   e a s y   I t s   e x p e n s i v e   a n d   t a k e s   a   l o n g   t i m e   A n d   i t   d o e s n t   a l w a y s   g o   t o   p l a n   T h e   l a s t   n o t a b l e   a t t e m p t   t o   d o   s o   w h e n   a   j u d g e   r u l e d   t w o   d e c a d e s   a g o   t h a t   M i c r o s o f t   b e   c l e a v e d   f o r   h a v i n g   v i o l a t e d   a n t i t r u s t   l a w   w a s   o v e r t u r n e d   o n   a p p e a l   S o   M s   W a r r e n   c o u l d   h a v e   h e r   w o r k   c u t   o u t   f o r   h e r
B u t   i t   m a y   u l t i m a t e l y   b e c o m e   a   q u e s t i o n   o f   b a l a n c i n g   a m b i t i o n   w i t h   n e e d   I s   i t   b e t t e r   t o   g a m b l e   o n   b r e a k i n g   u p   b i g   c o m p a n i e s   o r   g u a r a n t e e   t h a t   n e w   r u l e s   c u r b   s o m e   o f   t h e i r   b e h a v i o r   T h a t s   s o m e t h i n g   t h a t   l a w m a k e r s   a r e   g o i n g   t o   h a v e   t o   w r e s t l e   w i t h
W h e n   O p e n A I   w a s   f o u n d e d   t h r e e   y e a r s   a g o   i t   h a d   a   h u g e   g o a l   t o   b u i l d   a r t i f i c i a l   i n t e l l i g e n c e   s o f t w a r e   t h a t   w a s   a s   c a p a b l e   a s   t h e   h u m a n   b r a i n   I t s   f o u n d e r s   s a i d   t h a t   b e c a u s e   i t   w a s   a   n o n p r o f i t   w i t h   n o b l e   a m b i t i o n s     i t   h a d   1   b i l l i o n   i n   f u n d i n g   f r o m   b a c k e r s   t o   p a y   i t s   w a y     t h e   p u b l i c   c o u l d   t r u s t   i t   t o   b u i l d   t h a t   s o c a l l e d   g e n e r a l   a r t i f i c i a l   i n t e l l i g e n c e
O n l y   1   b i l l i o n   d o e s n t   g o   f a r   w i t h   g o a l s   l i k e   t h a t   H u g e   c o m p u t i n g   r e s o u r c e s   a n d   b i g   s a l a r i e s   t o   a t t r a c t   t a l e n t   b u r n   t h r o u g h   c a s h   A c t u a l l y   i t   t u r n s   o u t   s o m e   p r o f i t s   m i g h t   b e   u s e f u l
S o   W i r e d   r e p o r t e d   O p e n   A I   a n n o u n c e d   t h a t   i t   w a s   c h a n g i n g   i t s   b u s i n e s s   m o d e l   T o   k e e p   u p   w i t h   F a c e b o o k   a n d   G o o g l e   i t   c r e a t e d   a   O p e n A I   L P   a   c o m p a n y   t h a t   c a n   t a k e   m o n e y   f r o m   i n v e s t o r s   t h a t   n e e d   t o   r e t u r n   a   p r o f i t   l i k e   v e n t u r e   f u n d s   T h a t   w i l l   m a k e   i t   e a s i e r   t o   r a i s e   f u n d s   D o w n   t h e   l i n e   i t   m i g h t   m o n e t i z e   s o m e   o f   t h e   t e c h n o l o g y   i t   d e v e l o p s   B u t   t h e   c o m p a n y   d e c i d e d   t o   c a p   t h e   r e t u r n s   t h a t   i n v e s t o r s   w i l l   s e e     t o   1 0 0   f o r   e v e r y   d o l l a r   i n v e s t e d
O n e   w a y   t o   t h i n k   o f   t h a t   f i g u r e   i s   t h a t   O p e n A I   d e e m s   a   1 0 0 t i m e s   r e t u r n   t o   b e   a n   e t h i c a l   m a r g i n   o n   b u i l d i n g   a   g e n e r a l   A I     e n o u g h   t o   m a k e   i t   a   f e a s i b l e   e n d e a v o r   b u t   n o t   s o   m u c h   a s   t o   t a r   i t   w i t h   t h e   B i g   T e c h   b r u s h   T h a t   r e a s o n i n g   c l e a r l y   h o l d s   i f   y o u   i n h a b i t   S i l i c o n   V a l l e y   B u t   i t   w i l l   b e   i n t e r e s t i n g   t o   s e e   i f   t h a t   p r o f i t   c a p   i s   e n o u g h   t o   p u t   e v e r y o n e   a t   e a s e
O n   M a r c h   1 2   1 9 8 9   T i m   B e r n e r s L e e   p r o p o s e d   a n   i d e a   f o r   l i n k i n g   d i g i t a l   f i l e s   t h a t   h i s   b o s s   M i k e   S e n d a l l   c a l l e d   v a g u e   b u t   e x c i t i n g   I t   u l t i m a t e l y   b e c a m e   t h e   W o r l d   W i d e   W e b   a n d   3 0   y e a r s   l a t e r   w e r e   l e f t   w i t h   m u c h   t o   l o v e     a n d   h a t e     a b o u t   i t s   e x i s t e n c e
A t   a n   e v e n t   a t   L o n d o n s   S c i e n c e   M u s e u m   o n   T u e s d a y   t o   m a r k   t h e   w e b s   p a s s a g e   i n t o   i t s   f o u r t h   d e c a d e   M r   B e r n e r s L e e   w a s   a s k e d   w h a t   i t   m i g h t   l o o k   l i k e   i n   a n o t h e r   3 0   y e a r s   H e r e s   w h a t   h e   s a i d
  I t s   n o t   I   t h i n k   f o r   u s   t o   t r y   a n d   g u e s s
  L o o k   a t   w h a t s   h a p p e n e d   o v e r   t h e   l a s t   3 0   y e a r s   T h e   w e b   h a s   c h a n g e d   r e a l l y   d r a m a t i c a l l y   a n d   a   l o t   o f   t h a t   w e   c o u l d n t   h a v e   p r e d i c t e d
  W h a t   w e   c a n   d o   i s   w e   c a n   s a y   w h a t   w e b   w e   w a n t
  W e   w a n t   a   w e b   w h i c h   i s   o p e n   W e   w a n t   a   w e b   w h i c h   i s   r o y a l t y f r e e   W e   w a n t   a   w e b   w h i c h   i s   d i s c r i m i n a t i o n f r e e
W o r t h y   g o a l s   A n d   i n   a n   a r t i c l e   h e   w r o t e   t h i s   p a s t   w e e k   M r   B e r n e r s L e e   l a i d   o u t   s t e p s   t h a t   m a y   b e   r e q u i r e d   t o   e n s u r e   t h e y   h a p p e n
  G o v e r n m e n t s   m u s t   t r a n s l a t e   l a w s   a n d   r e g u l a t i o n s   f o r   t h e   d i g i t a l   a g e   T h e y   m u s t   e n s u r e   m a r k e t s   r e m a i n   c o m p e t i t i v e   i n n o v a t i v e   a n d   o p e n
  C o m p a n i e s   m u s t   d o   m o r e   t o   e n s u r e   t h e i r   p u r s u i t   o f   s h o r t t e r m   p r o f i t   i s   n o t   a t   t h e   e x p e n s e   o f   h u m a n   r i g h t s   d e m o c r a c y   s c i e n t i f i c   f a c t   o r   p u b l i c   s a f e t y
  P l a t f o r m s   a n d   p r o d u c t s   m u s t   b e   d e s i g n e d   w i t h   p r i v a c y   d i v e r s i t y   a n d   s e c u r i t y   i n   m i n d  
  A n d   m o s t   i m p o r t a n t   o f   a l l   c i t i z e n s   m u s t   h o l d   c o m p a n i e s   a n d   g o v e r n m e n t s   a c c o u n t a b l e
T h i r t y   y e a r s   o n   M r   S e n d a l l s   a n a l y s i s   m i g h t   a p p l y   e q u a l l y   w e l l   t o   t h i s   p r o p o s a l   t o o
E l o n   M u s k   r e a l l y   d i s l i k e s   w h i s t l e b l o w e r s   A c c o r d i n g   t o   B u s i n e s s w e e k   M r   M u s k   t h e   T e s l a   c h i e f   e x e c u t i v e   s e t   o u t   t o   d e s t r o y   o n e   e m p l o y e e   w h o   l e a k e d   d e t a i l s   a b o u t   r a w   m a t e r i a l s   w a s t a g e   a t   t h e   c o m p a n y
H o w   d o e s   G o o g l e   p a y   o f f   e x e c u t i v e s   a c c u s e d   o f   m i s c o n d u c t   H a n d s o m e l y   T w o   s h a r e d   a   t o t a l   o f   1 3 5   m i l l i o n   a c c o r d i n g   t o   d e t a i l s   t h a t   e m e r g e d   f r o m   a   l a w s u i t   d u r i n g   t h e   w e e k
W h o   w i l l   f u n d   t h e   n e x t   w a v e   o f   t e c h   s t a r t u p s   T h a t l l   b e   t h e   m i l l i o n a i r e s   w h o   a r e   c r e a t e d   w h e n   c o m p a n i e s   l i k e   A i r b n b   a n d   U b e r   g o   p u b l i c
Y o u   s h o u l d   c a r e   a b o u t   T i k T o k   Y o u   m i g h t   n e v e r   u s e   i t   b u t   i t   c o u l d   r e s h a p e   s o c i a l   m e d i a   a s   y o u   k n o w   i t
S c i e n t i s t s   d r o p p e d   a   s m a r t p h o n e   i n t o   a   b l e n d e r   B e c a u s e   t h a t   a p p a r e n t l y   i s   t h e   b e s t   w a y   t o   w o r k   o u t   h o w   m u c h   c o b a l t   g o l d   a n d   o t h e r   s u b s t a n c e s   a r e   i n   t h e r e
H o w   t o   d i s a p p e a r   a l m o s t   c o m p l e t e l y   A   B i t c o i n   e v a n g e l i s t   o f f e r e d   1 5   s t e p s   t o   g o i n g   d a r k   w h i l e   s t a y i n g   o n l i n e
S i l i c o n   V a l l e y   w a n t s   t o   b u i l d   a   m o n u m e n t   T o   S i l i c o n   V a l l e y   o b v i o u s l y
J a m i e   C o n d l i f f e   i s   e d i t o r   o f   t h e   D e a l B o o k   n e w s l e t t e r   H e   a l s o   w r i t e s   t h e   w e e k l y   B i t s   n e w s l e t t e r   F o l l o w   h i m   o n   T w i t t e r   h e r e   j m e _ c
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   V i v i a n   Y e e   a n d   H w a i d a   S a a d
B E I R U T   L e b a n o n     L e b a n o n s   n e w l y   f o r m e d   g o v e r n m e n t   w h i c h   g i v e s   t h e   I s l a m i s t   m o v e m e n t   H e z b o l l a h   k e y   m i n i s t r i e s   h a s   r a i s e d   c o n c e r n s   t h a t   t h e   c o u n t r y   c o u l d   r u n   a f o u l   o f   s a n c t i o n s   b y   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   t h a t   p r o h i b i t   m a t e r i a l   s u p p o r t   f o r   t h e   I r a n b a c k e d   g r o u p
O n   F r i d a y   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   w a r n e d   H e z b o l l a h   a g a i n s t   p r o p p i n g   u p   i t s   a g e n d a   w i t h   i t s   n e w   p o s i t i o n   w h i c h   i n c l u d e s   k e y   p o s t s   i n   L e b a n o n s   g o v e r n m e n t   i n c l u d i n g   i n   t h e   M i n i s t r y   o f   H e a l t h
A m e r i c a n   o f f i c i a l s   a r e   c o n c e r n e d   H e z b o l l a h   w i l l   u s e   t h e   m i n i s t r y   t o   p r o v i d e   s t a t e s u b s i d i z e d   h e a l t h   c a r e   a n d   p a t r o n a g e   j o b s   t o   i t s   s u p p o r t e r s   a n d   p o s s i b l y   e v e n   i t s   f i g h t e r s   h e l p i n g   i t   e n d u r e   p u n i s h i n g   A m e r i c a n   s a n c t i o n s   t h a t   h a v e   m a d e   i t   d i f f i c u l t   f o r   t h e   g r o u p   t o   o f f e r   i t s   u s u a l   s o c i a l   s e r v i c e s   t o   i t s   S h i i t e   M u s l i m   b a s e
W e   c a l l   o n   t h e   n e w   g o v e r n m e n t   t o   e n s u r e   t h e   r e s o u r c e s   a n d   s e r v i c e s   o f   t h e s e   m i n i s t r i e s   d o   n o t   p r o v i d e   s u p p o r t   t o   H e z b o l l a h   s a i d   a   S t a t e   D e p a r t m e n t   s p o k e s m a n   R o b e r t   P a l l a d i n o
A s   t h e   n e w   c a b i n e t   c o a l e s c e d   o n   T h u r s d a y   a f t e r   n e a r l y   n i n e   m o n t h s   o f   p o l i t i c a l   d e a d l o c k   t h e   a s s i s t a n t   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   T r e a s u r y   s e c r e t a r y   f o r   t e r r o r i s t   f i n a n c i n g   M a r s h a l l   B i l l i n g s l e a   w a r n e d   H e z b o l l a h   t h a t   i f   i t   t r i e d   t o   e x p l o i t   t h e s e   m i n i s t r i e s   t o   f u n n e l   m o n e y   o r   u n d e r t a k e   o t h e r   a c t i v i t i e s   i n   s u p p o r t   o f   t h e i r   t e r r o r i s t   a g e n d a   t h e n   w e   w i l l   h a v e   s i g n i f i c a n t   c o n c e r n s
H e z b o l l a h   h a d   b e e n   e x p e c t e d   t o   g a i n   s t r e n g t h   i n   g o v e r n m e n t   a f t e r   t h e   g r o u p   a n d   i t s   a l l i e s   e x p a n d e d   t h e i r   s h a r e   o f   s e a t s   i n   L e b a n o n s   p a r l i a m e n t a r y   e l e c t i o n s   l a s t   M a y   s i g n i f i c a n t l y   w e a k e n i n g   t h e   W e s t e r n b a c k e d   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r   S a a d   H a r i r i   a n d   h i s   b l o c   N o w   t h a t   i t   h a s   w o n   c o n t r o l   o f   t h e   H e a l t h   M i n i s t r y   w h i c h   h a s   t h e   f o u r t h l a r g e s t   b u d g e t   i n   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   i t s   a b i l i t y   t o   e m b e d   i t s e l f   i n   L e b a n e s e   s t a t e   i n s t i t u t i o n s   h a s   m a d e   i t   b o t h   a   b i g g e r   t a r g e t   a n d   a   m o r e   e l u s i v e   p r e y   f o r   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   w h i c h   h a s   d e s i g n a t e d   i t   a   t e r r o r i s t   g r o u p
L e b a n o n s   p o l i t i c a l   s y s t e m   a w a r d s   p o s t s   a n d   p a t r o n a g e   s p o i l s   t o   p o l i t i c i a n s   o f   d i f f e r e n t   r e l i g i o u s   a f f i l i a t i o n s   i n   o r d e r   t o   m a i n t a i n   a   b a l a n c e   a m o n g   t h e   c o u n t r y s   1 8   o f f i c i a l l y   r e c o g n i z e d   r e l i g i o u s   s e c t s   T h e r e   i s   a   l o n g   h i s t o r y   o f   m i n i s t e r s   o f   a l l   s t r i p e s   u s i n g   t h e   H e a l t h   M i n i s t r y   t o   p r o v i d e   f r e e   o r   s u b s i d i z e d   h e a l t h   c a r e   t o   s u p p o r t e r s   A n a l y s t s   b e l i e v e   H e z b o l l a h   m a y   t r y   t o   d o   t h e   s a m e   w h e t h e r   f o r   i t s   S h i i t e   b a s e   o r   m o r e   t r o u b l i n g l y   f o r   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   f o r   H e z b o l l a h   f i g h t e r s   w o u n d e d   i n   t h e   S y r i a n   c i v i l   w a r   n e x t   d o o r
T h i s   i s   y e t   a n o t h e r   e x a m p l e   o f   H e z b o l l a h   o p e n l y   h o l d i n g   L e b a n o n s   s e c u r i t y   a n d   p r o s p e r i t y   h o s t a g e   s a i d   R a c h e l   M i k e s k a   a   s p o k e s w o m a n   f o r   t h e   A m e r i c a n   E m b a s s y   i n   L e b a n o n   S h e   a d d e d   t h a t   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   w a s   p r e p a r e d   t o   t a k e   w h a t e v e r   a c t i o n s   a r e   n e c e s s a r y   t o   p r o t e c t   t h e   i n t e r e s t s   o f   t h e   L e b a n e s e   p e o p l e
S h e   d e c l i n e d   t o   s a y   w h a t   t h o s e   a c t i o n s   m i g h t   b e   B u t   a n a l y s t s   s a i d   t h e   p o s s i b i l i t i e s   r a n g e d   f r o m   t h e   r e l a t i v e l y   r e s t r a i n e d     s u c h   a s   r e d u c i n g   f u n d i n g   t o   t h e   H e a l t h   M i n i s t r y   a n d   s q u e e z i n g   o t h e r   i n t e r n a t i o n a l   d o n o r s   l i k e   t h e   W o r l d   H e a l t h   O r g a n i z a t i o n   t o   d o   t h e   s a m e     t o   t h e   d i r e   T h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   c o u l d   t h e o r e t i c a l l y   i m p o s e   s a n c t i o n s   o n   L e b a n e s e   h o s p i t a l s   p r e v e n t i n g   t h e   e x p o r t   o f   A m e r i c a n   m e d i c a t i o n s   t o   L e b a n o n   o r   c u t   o f f   A m e r i c a n   m i l i t a r y   a i d   t o   t h e   L e b a n e s e   A r m y
I t   i s   u n c l e a r   w h a t   H e z b o l l a h   m i g h t   d o   a t   t h e   H e a l t h   M i n i s t r y   t h a t   t h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   w o u l d   c o n s i d e r   a   v i o l a t i o n   o f   t h e   s a n c t i o n s   l a w   P r e s i d e n t   T r u m p   s i g n e d   i n   O c t o b e r   A n a l y s t s   s a i d   H e z b o l l a h   m a y   h a v e   c h o s e n   D r   J a m i l   J a b a k   a   6 3 y e a r o l d   i n t e r n i s t   w i t h   c l o s e   t i e s   t o   H e z b o l l a h   a s   h e a l t h   m i n i s t e r   t o   t r y   t o   a v o i d   d i r e c t   s a n c t i o n s   o n   t h e   m i n i s t r y   D r   J a b a k   i s   n o t   a   m e m b e r   o f   H e z b o l l a h   b u t   i s   s a i d   t o   h a v e   o n c e   s e r v e d   a s   a   p e r s o n a l   p h y s i c i a n   t o   t h e   g r o u p s   l e a d e r
W o u l d   W a s h i n g t o n   c o n s i d e r   f r e e   h e a l t h   c a r e   t o   H e z b o l l a h   m e m b e r s   p r o v i d e d   b y   t h e   H e a l t h   M i n i s t r y   a s   a n   e x a m p l e   o f   s i g n i f i c a n t   f i n a n c i a l   s u p p o r t   w r o t e   M i c h a e l   Y o u n g   a   p o l i t i c a l   o b s e r v e r   a n d   j o u r n a l i s t   w i t h   t h e   C a r n e g i e   M i d d l e   E a s t   C e n t e r   i n   B e i r u t   i n   a n   o p i n i o n   c o l u m n   l a s t   y e a r   I t s   d i f f i c u l t   t o   s a y   t h a t   i t   w o u l d   n e v e r   d o   s o
T h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   v a r i o u s   i n t e r e s t s   i n   L e b a n o n   o f t e n   e n d   u p   i n   c o n f l i c t   i n c l u d i n g   w h e n   i t   c o m e s   t o   H e z b o l l a h   I t   w a n t s   t o   c o u n t e r   I r a n   a n d   i t s   p r o x i e s   b u t   a l s o   m a i n t a i n   L e b a n o n s   s t a b i l i t y   a s   t h e   w a r   i n   S y r i a   c o n t i n u e s   t o   b u r n   i t   a l s o   w a n t s   t o   b a t t l e   t e r r o r i s m   a n d   p u s h   b a c k   o n   R u s s i a n   i n f l u e n c e   i n   t h e   M i d d l e   E a s t
T h o u g h   W a s h i n g t o n   h a s   d e s i g n a t e d   H e z b o l l a h   a s   a   t e r r o r i s t   o r g a n i z a t i o n   f o r   i t s   a c t i o n s   a r o u n d   t h e   w o r l d   a n d   i t s   c l o s e   r e l a t i o n s h i p   t o   I r a n   t h e   g r o u p   h a s   a l s o   b a k e d   i t s e l f   i n t o   l e g i t i m a t e   p a r t s   o f   t h e   L e b a n e s e   s t a t e   m a k i n g   i t   d i f f i c u l t   f o r   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   t o   t a r g e t   i t   w i t h o u t   a l s o   a f f e c t i n g   t h e   r e s t   o f   t h e   c o u n t r y
T h e   d e b a t e   i n   t h e   U S   a b o u t   L e b a n o n   i s   a l w a y s   a b o u t   w h i c h   t o   p r i o r i t i z e   a n d   h o w   t o   b a l a n c e   t h e s e   c o m p e t i n g   p r i o r i t i e s   s a i d   F i r a s   M a k s a d   t h e   d i r e c t o r   o f   t h e   A r a b i a   F o u n d a t i o n   a   W a s h i n g t o n b a s e d   t h i n k   t a n k   t h a t   l e a n s   t o w a r d   p r o S a u d i   A r a b i a   a n d   a n t i I r a n   p o l i c i e s
O n   o n e   s i d e   o f   t h e   d e b a t e   a r e   a n t i I r a n   h a r d l i n e r s   w h o   a r g u e   t h a t   t h i s   i s   I r a n   o n   t h e   M e d i t e r r a n e a n   t h a t   H e z b o l l a h   u s e s   t h e   L e b a n e s e   p o l i t i c a l   e l i t e   a n d   t h e   L e b a n e s e   g o v e r n m e n t   a s   a   t h i n   v e i l   f o r   p o l i t i c a l   c o v e r   M r   M a k s a d   s a i d
T h o s e   v o i c e s   w h i c h   i n c l u d e   s o m e   R e p u b l i c a n s   i n   C o n g r e s s   a n d   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   T r u m p   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   m a y   p u s h   f o r   c u t t i n g   o f f   a i d   t o   t h e   L e b a n e s e   A r m y     a   s i g n i f i c a n t   s o u r c e   o f   s u p p o r t   t o   t h e   a r m e d   f o r c e s     a s   w e l l   a s   t o   t h e   H e a l t h   M i n i s t r y
O p p o s i n g   t h e s e   h a w k i s h   v i e w s   a r e   t h o s e   i n c l u d i n g   m u c h   o f   t h e   t r a d i t i o n a l   f o r e i g n   p o l i c y   e s t a b l i s h m e n t   w h o   p r e f e r   a   m o r e   m e a s u r e d   r e s p o n s e
G i v e n   L e b a n o n s   f l o u n d e r i n g   e c o n o m y   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   i n s t a b i l i t y   M r   M a k s a d   s a i d   t h e y   d o n t   w a n t   t h e   w h o l e   p l a c e   t o   c o m e   d o w n   T h e   p r o s p e c t   o f   e c o n o m i c   c o l l a p s e   g r e a t l y   i n c r e a s e d   p r e s s u r e   o n   t h e   c o u n t r y s   p o l i t i c a l   f a c t i o n s   t o   s t r i k e   a   p o w e r s h a r i n g   a g r e e m e n t
T h e y   a l s o   a r g u e   t h a t   r e d u c i n g   m i l i t a r y   a i d   w o u l d   l e a v e   r o o m   f o r   R u s s i a   w h i c h   h a s   e x p a n d e d   i t s   i n f l u e n c e   a c r o s s   t h e   M i d d l e   E a s t   t o   m a k e   i n r o a d s   i n   L e b a n o n
I n   g e n e r a l   s a n c t i o n s   a n d   f i n a n c i a l   t o o l s   h a v e   c o m e   t o   b e   t h e   p r i m a r y   s t i c k   u s e d   b y   t h e   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   a g a i n s t   I r a n   a n d   i t s   r e g i o n a l   p a r t n e r s   O n   a   t r i p   t o   B e i r u t   l a s t   w e e k   M r   B i l l i n g s l e a   u r g e d   L e b a n e s e   o f f i c i a l s   t o   e x c l u d e   H e z b o l l a h   f r o m   i n v o l v e m e n t   i n   t h e   c o u n t r y s   b a n k i n g   a n d   f i n a n c i a l   s e c t o r s   a n d   c a l l e d   f o r   r e f o r m s   t h a t   w o u l d   a l l o w   t h e   L e b a n e s e   a u t h o r i t i e s   t o   b l o c k   a n d   f r e e z e   a c c o u n t s   a s s o c i a t e d   w i t h   t h e   g r o u p
B u t   a s   H e z b o l l a h   c o n t i n u e s   t o   e x p a n d   i t s   i n f l u e n c e   i n   L e b a n e s e   i n s t i t u t i o n s   s a n c t i o n s   m a y   p r o v e   t o   b e   a n   o v e r l y   b l u n t   t o o l   h i t t i n g   l e g i t i m a t e   g o v e r n m e n t   s e r v i c e s   a n d   c i v i l i a n s   i n   a d d i t i o n   t o   t h e   p a r t y
I n   t h e   p a s t   w h e n   H e z b o l l a h   p l a y e d   a   s m a l l e r   r o l e   i n   g o v e r n m e n t   y o u   c o u l d   e a s i l y   s e p a r a t e   b e t w e e n   H e z b o l l a h   a n d   s t a t e   i n s t i t u t i o n s   s a i d   H a n i n   G h a d d a r   a   L e b a n e s e A m e r i c a n   a n a l y s t   a t   t h e   W a s h i n g t o n   I n s t i t u t e   f o r   N e a r   E a s t   P o l i c y   a n d   a   f r e q u e n t   c r i t i c   o f   H e z b o l l a h
N o w   w i t h   H e z b o l l a h   c o m m a n d i n g   a   b r o a d   s w a t h   o f   g o v e r n m e n t   s h e   a s k e d   H o w   d o   y o u   k e e p   t h e   s t a b i l i t y   o f   L e b a n e s e   i n s t i t u t i o n s   w h i l e   g o i n g   a f t e r   H e z b o l l a h   w i t h   e v e r y t h i n g   y o u   h a v e
B u t   K a s s e m   Q a s s i r   a   L e b a n e s e   p o l i t i c a l   a n a l y s t   c l o s e   t o   H e z b o l l a h   s a i d   t h e   c o n c e r n s   a b o u t   H e z b o l l a h s   d o m i n a n c e   w e r e   o v e r b l o w n
N o b o d y   c a n   h a v e   s o l e   c o n t r o l   o v e r   L e b a n o n   n e i t h e r   H e z b o l l a h   n o r   a n y b o d y   e l s e   h e   s a i d   L e b a n o n   i s   a   d i v e r s e   c o u n t r y
I n   a   t e l e v i s e d   i n t e r v i e w   o n   S a t u r d a y   H a s s a n   N a s r a l l a h   t h e   o r g a n i z a t i o n s   s e c r e t a r y   g e n e r a l   s a i d   t h e   g r o u p   d i d   n o t   i n t e n d   t o   m e d d l e   w i t h   L e b a n o n s   b a l a n c e   o f   p o w e r
B u t   M r   M a k s a d   n o t e d   t h a t   H e z b o l l a h   h a d   m a n a g e d   t o   f o r g e   p a c t s   w i t h   C h r i s t i a n   a n d   S u n n i   p o l i t i c i a n s   a s   w e l l   a s   S h i i t e   o n e s   t h e n   h e l d   u p   t h e   f o r m a t i o n   o f   t h e   n e w   g o v e r n m e n t   u n t i l   t h e   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r   a   S u n n i   a g r e e d   t o   a l l o w   H e z b o l l a h s   S u n n i   a l l i e s   i n t o   t h e   c a b i n e t     a n   u n m i s t a k a b l e   m a r k   o f   i t s   s t r e n g t h
O f   t h e   n e w   f a c e s   i n   t h e   3 0 s e a t   c a b i n e t   i t   w a s   D r   J a b a k   t h e   p h y s i c i a n   l e a d i n g   a   m i n i s t r y   c l o s e l y   w a t c h e d   b y   t h e   W e s t   w h o   a t t r a c t e d   t h e   m o s t   i m m e d i a t e   a t t e n t i o n
I   d o n t   b e l o n g   t o   a n y   p o l i t i c a l   p a r t y   h e   s a i d   i n   a   r a d i o   i n t e r v i e w   o n   F r i d a y


A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   J u l i a   J a c o b s
F o r t y   y e a r s   a g o   C S p a n   w e n t   l i v e   w i t h   i t s   f i r s t   p u b l i c   b r o a d c a s t   f r o m   t h e   H o u s e   o f   R e p r e s e n t a t i v e s   c h a m b e r   g i v i n g   A m e r i c a n s   a   t e l e v i s i o n s h a p e d   w i n d o w   i n t o   h o w   l a w m a k e r s   b e h a v e   i n   t h e   o r n a t e   r o o m   w h e r e   h i s t o r y   i s   o f t e n   m a d e
U s h e r i n g   i n   t h e   C S p a n   e r a   o n   M a r c h   1 9   1 9 7 9   w a s   A l   G o r e   t h e n   a   r e p r e s e n t a t i v e   f r o m   T e n n e s s e e   w h o   h a d   p u s h e d   f o r   t h e   n e t w o r k s   a c c e s s   t o   t h e   C a p i t o l
F r o m   t h i s   d a y   f o r w a r d   M r   G o r e   s a i d   a t   t h e   t i m e   e v e r y   m e m b e r   o f   t h i s   b o d y   m u s t   a s k   h i m s e l f   o r   h e r s e l f   h o w   m a n y   A m e r i c a n s   a r e   l i s t e n i n g   t o   t h e   d e b a t e s   w h i c h   a r e   m a d e
S i n c e   t h a t   d a y   w h e n   C S p a n   d e b u t e d   w i t h   f o u r   e m p l o y e e s   t h e   n e t w o r k   h a s   b e c o m e   a   m a i n s t a y   i n   A m e r i c a n   p o l i t i c s   W e   s p o k e   w i t h   S u s a n   S w a i n   o n e   o f   C S p a n s   t w o   c h i e f   e x e c u t i v e s   a b o u t   t h e   b i r t h   o f   t h e   n e t w o r k   W a s h i n g t o n s   i n i t i a l   r e s i s t a n c e   t o   b e i n g   c a u g h t   o n   c a m e r a   a n d   h o w   t h e   n e t w o r k   h a s   a d a p t e d   t o   t h e   s o c i a l   m e d i a   a g e
T h i s   i n t e r v i e w   w i t h   M s   S w a i n   w h o   j o i n e d   C S p a n   t h r e e   y e a r s   a f t e r   i t   s t a r t e d   h a s   b e e n   e d i t e d   f o r   b r e v i t y   a n d   c l a r i t y
I n   t h e   m o m e n t   t h a t   A l   G o r e   a p p r o a c h e d   t h e   l e c t e r n   i n   t h e   H o u s e   c h a m b e r   a n d   C S p a n   w e n t   l i v e   w h a t   c h a n g e d   i n   A m e r i c a n   p o l i t i c s
T h e   f a c t   t h a t   p e o p l e   c o u l d   a c t u a l l y   s e e   t h e i r   e l e c t e d   r e p r e s e n t a t i v e s   i n   t h e i r   l i v i n g   r o o m     a n d   n o w   o n   t h e i r   p h o n e s     w a s   a   f u n d a m e n t a l   c h a n g e   I n   t h e   p a s t   p e o p l e   m i g h t   p u l l   t h e   l e v e r   e v e r y   t w o   y e a r s   f o r   t h e i r   m e m b e r   o f   C o n g r e s s   a n d   i f   t h e y   w e r e   s u p e r   e n g a g e d   m i g h t   r e a d   a   n e w s l e t t e r   t h a t   c a m e   i n   t h e   m a i l   o r   g o   t o   a n   o c c a s i o n a l   t o w n   h a l l   m e e t i n g
T h i s   m e a n t   t h a t   a n y   t i m e   y o u   w e r e   i n t e r e s t e d   y o u   c o u l d   w a t c h   w h a t   y o u r   m e m b e r   o f   C o n g r e s s   h a d   t o   s a y   P r i o r   t o   t e l e v i s i o n   i n   C o n g r e s s   t h e   o n l y   t i m e   t h a t   m e m b e r s   r e a l l y   g o t   a t t e n t i o n   i s   i f   t h e y   h a d   b i g   n a m e s   l i k e   K e n n e d y   o r   i f   t h e y   d i d   s o m e t h i n g   o u t r a g e o u s   e i t h e r   p o s i t i v e l y   o r   n e g a t i v e l y   o r   i f   t h e y   w e r e   a   m e m b e r   o f   t h e   l e a d e r s h i p
I n i t i a l l y   t h e r e   w a s   a   l o t   o f   r e s i s t a n c e   i n   W a s h i n g t o n   t o   t h e   i d e a   o f   C S p a n   b r o a d c a s t i n g   H o u s e   f l o o r   d e b a t e s   A n d   t h e   S e n a t e   d i d n t   a l l o w   C S p a n   i n   f o r   a n o t h e r   s e v e n   y e a r s   W h y   w a s   t h e r e   s u c h   r e s i s t a n c e
M e m b e r s   h a d   c o n c e r n s   t h a t   t h e   c a m e r a s   w o u l d   b e   s w i n g i n g   a r o u n d   a n d   t a k i n g   p i c t u r e s   o f   m e m b e r s   w h i l e   t h e y   w e r e   n o t   f o c u s e d   a t t e n t i v e l y   o n   t h e   d e b a t e s   o r     h e a v e n   f o r b i d     c l o s i n g   t h e i r   e y e s   f o r   a   s e c o n d   O r   t o d a y   p e r h a p s   t h e y   m i g h t   b e   s e n d i n g   o u t   a   t w e e t
O n e   o f   t h e   w a y s   t h i s   f i n a l l y   c a m e   t o   b e a r   w a s   t h a t   t h e y   c r e a t e d   a   c o m p r o m i s e   t h a t   m e m b e r s   c o u l d   l i v e   w i t h   T h e   c o m p r o m i s e   w a s   t h a t   t h e   H o u s e   o f   R e p r e s e n t a t i v e s   t h e   s p e a k e r s   o f f i c e   w o u l d   c o n t r o l   t h e   c a m e r a s   t h a t   w e r e   o n   t h e   f l o o r   o f   t h e   H o u s e   A l l   t h e   r e s t   o f   C o n g r e s s   p r e s s   c o n f e r e n c e s   a n d   h e a r i n g s   i t s   C S p a n   o r   o t h e r   n e w s   o r g a n i z a t i o n s   c o v e r i n g   t h e m   i n d e p e n d e n t l y
E v e r y   t i m e   t h e r e s   a   c h a n g e   o f   s p e a k e r   w e   h a v e   s e n t   a   l e t t e r   s a y i n g   N o w s   t h e   t i m e   A l l o w   C S p a n   o r   o t h e r   j o u r n a l i s t i c   o r g a n i z a t i o n s   t o   p u t   o u r   o w n   c a m e r a s   i n   s i d e   b y   s i d e   T h a t   a r g u m e n t   c o n t i n u e s   t o   g o   n o w h e r e
W e r e   p o l i t i c i a n s   s e l f c o n s c i o u s   a b o u t   h o w   t h e y d   a p p e a r   o n   c a m e r a  
I   t h i n k   m o r e   s o   t h e r e   w a s   t h e   c o n c e r n   t h a t   t h e y   w o u l d n t   b e   i n   c o n t r o l   o f   t h e   p i c t u r e   T h e   S e n a t e   f i n a l l y   a c q u i e s c e d   a n d   i t s   a   c l a s s i c   s t o r y   o f   A m e r i c a n   p o l i t i c s
T h e   H o u s e   w a s   c o m i n g   i n t o   p e o p l e s   l i v i n g   r o o m s   v i a   C S p a n   a n d   t h e n   r e g u l a r l y   o n   t h e   n i g h t l y   n e w s   b e c a u s e   w h a t   w e   d i d   c o u l d   b e   p i c k e d   u p   r e g u l a r l y   f o r   n i g h t l y   s t o r i e s   a b o u t   t h e   H o u s e   T e l e v i s i o n   l o v e s   p i c t u r e s   s o   t h e y   w o u l d   d o   m o r e   s t o r i e s   a b o u t   t h e   H o u s e   T h e   S e n a t e   w a s   b e c o m i n g   c o n c e r n e d   t h a t   i t   w a s   b e c o m i n g   t h e   s e c o n d t i e r   c i t i z e n   o f   C o n g r e s s
T h e   p e r s o n   w h o   w a s   r e a l l y   m o s t   i n s t r u m e n t a l   i s   S e n a t o r   R o b e r t   B y r d   o f   W e s t   V i r g i n i a   w h o   h a d   b e e n   o n e   o f   t h e   o l d l i n e   m e m b e r s   w h o   w a s   v e r y   m u c h   a n   i n s t i t u t i o n a l i s t   a n d   v e r y   m u c h   c o n c e r n e d   a b o u t   h o w   t h e   S e n a t e   w o u l d   c h a n g e   H e   w e n t   h o m e   t o   W e s t   V i r g i n i a   t o   s p e a k   a n d   w a s   i n t r o d u c e d   i n   W e s t   V i r g i n i a   h i s   h o m e   s t a t e   a s   t h e   s p e a k e r   o f   t h e   H o u s e   A n d   i t s   b e c a u s e   h e   h a d   a   b i g   s h o c k   o f   w h i t e   h a i r   a s   d i d   t h e   t h e n S p e a k e r   o f   t h e   H o u s e   T i p   O N e i l l   A n d   t h i s   b r o u g h t   i t   a l l   h o m e   t o   h i m   S o   h e   c o n v i n c e d   s o m e   o f   t h e   r e c a l c i t r a n t   m e m b e r s   t h e y   d i d   a   v o t e   a n d   C S p a n   w e n t   o n   i n   J u n e   o f   1 9 8 6
W h a t   i s   o n e   o f   y o u r   m o s t   s i g n i f i c a n t   m e m o r i e s   f r o m   y o u r   t i m e   a t   C S p a n
T h e   d a y   t h a t   t h e   C h a l l e n g e r   s h u t t l e   e x p l o d e d   w e   w e r e   t e l e v i s i n g   i t   l i v e   a n d   I   b e l i e v e   I   w a s   o n   t h e   a i r   a s   t h e   s h u t t l e   w a s   g o i n g   u p   A n d   i t   b e c a m e   v e r y   c l e a r   a s   y o u   w a t c h e d   t h a t   p i c t u r e   o f   t h e   s h u t t l e   t h a t   t h i s   w a s   a   m a j o r   c a t a s t r o p h e
W e   s a t   a n d   w a t c h e d   a s   l o n g   a s   N A S A   t o o k   p i c t u r e s   a n d   t h e n   t h e   s t o r y   b e g a n   t o   u n f o l d   T h e n   w e   o p e n e d   u p   o u r   p h o n e   l i n e s   T h e r e   w a s   j u s t   a n   i n c r e d i b l e   o u t p o u r i n g   f r o m   a r o u n d   t h e   c o u n t r y   o f   p e o p l e   w i t n e s s i n g   t h i s   a b s o l u t e   t r a g e d y   h u m a n   t r a g e d y   a n d   a l s o   t e c h n o l o g i c a l   t r a g e d y   u n f o l d   i n   f r o n t   o f   t h e i r   e y e s
C S p a n   h a s   g i v e n   p o l i t i c i a n s   a   p l a t f o r m   t o   c o n n e c t   d i r e c t l y   w i t h   t h e i r   c o n s t i t u e n t s   b u t   n o w   t h e y   c a n   d o   t h a t   o n   s o c i a l   m e d i a   I s   C S p a n   s t i l l   r e l e v a n t
C S p a n s   r e l e v a n c e   c o m e s   i n   t h e   f o r m   o f   n o t   o n l y   a l l   o f   t h e   e v e n t s   t h a t   w e   c o v e r   e v e r y   d a y   b u t   w i t h i n   m i n u t e s   a f t e r   w e   t e l e v i s e   t h e m   t h e y   a r e   d i g i t i z e d   a n d   s t o r e d   o n   o u r   v i d e o   a r c h i v e s   I t   h a s   2 5 0 0 0 0   h o u r s   o f   p o l i t i c a l   v i d e o   t h a t   w e v e   c o v e r e d   s i n c e   1 9 8 7
T h a t   m e a n s   a   m e m b e r   o f   C o n g r e s s   c a n   p u l l   a   c l i p   f r o m   t h e i r   h e a r i n g   a n d   s e n d   i t   o u t   t o   c o n s t i t u e n t s   I t   a l s o   m e a n s   t h a t   p e o p l e   o n   s o c i a l   m e d i a   o r   l a t e n i g h t   c o m e d i a n s   h a v e   i m m e d i a t e   a c c e s s   t o   t h i s
I   t h i n k   m o s t   p e o p l e   w h o   a r e   i n   t h e i r   2 0 s   o r   y o u n g e r   i f   t h e y   h a v e   a n   e x p e r i e n c e   w i t h   C S p a n   i t   i s   t h r o u g h   s o c i a l   m e d i a   i t   i s   t h r o u g h   t h e   l a t e n i g h t   c o m e d i a n s   T h e   c r e a t i o n   o f   o u r   v i d e o   l i b r a r y   i n   1 9 8 7   w a s   e v e r y   b i t   a s   s i g n i f i c a n t   a s   t h e   o r i g i n a l   c r e a t i o n   o f   C S p a n
C S p a n   h a s   l o n g   f o u g h t   f o r   c a m e r a s   t o   b e   a l l o w e d   i n   t h e   S u p r e m e   C o u r t   c h a m b e r   W h a t   a r e   t h e   c h a n c e s   t h a t   y o u l l   s u c c e e d
I   f e e l   a   l i t t l e   b i t   l i k e   i t s   S i s y p h u s   p u s h i n g   t h e   r o c k   u p   t h e   h i l l   W h a t   w e   h a v e   d o c u m e n t e d   o v e r   t h e   y e a r s   i s   t h a t   w h e n   p e o p l e   a r e   n o m i n a t e d   t o   t h e   S u p r e m e   C o u r t   t h e y   g o   i n t o   t h e i r   c o m m i t t e e   h e a r i n g s   e x p r e s s i n g   t h e i r   o p e n   m i n d   t o   t h e   c o n c e p t   a n d   t h e n   o n c e   t h e y   g e t   i n s i d e   t h a t   c h a m b e r   o f   n i n e   t h e y   m a n a g e   t o   b e   c o n v i n c e d   b y   t h e   o t h e r s   t h e r e   t h a t   i t   w o u l d   b e   d e t r i m e n t a l   t o   t h e   i n s t i t u t i o n
W e   k e e p   h o p i n g   t h a t   a s   t h e   g e n e r a t i o n s   c h a n g e   a n d   y o u n g e r   a p p o i n t e e s   c o m e   i n   w h o   a r e   v e r y   f a m i l i a r   w i t h   m e d i a   a n d   e v e n   s o c i a l   m e d i a   t h a t   t h e   a t t i t u d e   w i l l   c h a n g e   B u t   t h e   i n s t i t u t i o n   c o n t i n u e s   t o   p r e v a i l
F o l l o w   J u l i a   J a c o b s   o n   T w i t t e r   j u l i a r e b e c c a j



A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A d v e r t i s e m e n t
S u p p o r t e d   b y
B y   B e n j a m i n   M u e l l e r
L O N D O N     B r i t a i n s   t o t t e r i n g   e f f o r t s   t o   l e a v e   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n   r e m a i n e d   a t   a n   i m p a s s e   o n   T h u r s d a y   a s   a l l i e s   o f   P r i m e   M i n i s t e r   T h e r e s a   M a y   t r i e d   t o   k e e p   h e r   d e a l   a l i v e   i n   t h e   f a c e   o f   u n b e n d i n g   o p p o s i t i o n
T h e   d e a l   a l r e a d y   d e f e a t e d   t w i c e   i n   P a r l i a m e n t   w a s   g i v e n   n e w   l i f e   o n   W e d n e s d a y   a f t e r   M r s   M a y   p r o m i s e d   C o n s e r v a t i v e   P a r t y   c o l l e a g u e s   w h o   a r e   h a r d l i n e   s u p p o r t e r s   o f   l e a v i n g   t h e   b l o c   t h a t   s h e   w o u l d   s t e p   d o w n   i f   i t   w e r e   p a s s e d   a n d   l e t   s o m e o n e   e l s e   t a k e   o v e r   t h e   n e x t   s t a g e   o f   t a l k s   w i t h   B r u s s e l s   f o r   t h e   p r o c e s s   k n o w n   a s   B r e x i t
W h o   c o u l d   b e   B r i t a i n s   n e x t   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r   H e r e   a r e   s o m e   c o n t e n d e r s
B u t   e v e n   h e r   o f f e r   t o   r e s i g n   w a s   n o t   e n o u g h   t o   a s s u a g e   h a r d l i n e   C o n s e r v a t i v e s   o r   h e r   p u t a t i v e   a l l i e s   i n   t h e   D e m o c r a t i c   U n i o n i s t   P a r t y   o f   N o r t h e r n   I r e l a n d   o r   D U P   w h o   h a t e   t h e   d e a l
S o   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   t r i e d   a   n e w   t a c k   o n   T h u r s d a y   M i n i s t e r s   s a i d   t h e y   w o u l d   d i s a s s e m b l e   M r s   M a y s   d e a l   i n t o   i t s   t w o   p a r t s     o n e   c a l l e d   t h e   w i t h d r a w a l   a g r e e m e n t   a n d   t h e   o t h e r   t h e   p o l i t i c a l   d e c l a r a t i o n     a n d   a s k   P a r l i a m e n t   t o   v o t e   F r i d a y   o n l y   o n   t h e   f i r s t
T h e   w i t h d r a w a l   a g r e e m e n t   o u t l i n e s   t h e   t e r m s   o f   B r i t a i n s   e x i t   f r o m   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n   w h i l e   t h e   p o l i t i c a l   d e c l a r a t i o n   d e a l s   w i t h   t h e   t a n g l e d   q u e s t i o n   o f   i t s   f u t u r e   r e l a t i o n s h i p   w i t h   t h e   b l o c
T h e   b a s i c s   o f   B r e x i t   t h e   t r o u b l e d   p l a n   f o r   B r i t a i n   t o   q u i t   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n
T h e   s p e a k e r   o f   t h e   H o u s e   o f   C o m m o n s   J o h n   B e r c o w   h a s   s a i d   h e   w o u l d   a l l o w   P a r l i a m e n t   t o   v o t e   a g a i n   o n l y   i f   t h e   p l a n   h a d   c h a n g e d   s u b s t a n t i a l l y   s i n c e   i t   h a d   b e e n   r e j e c t e d   r e s o u n d i n g l y     t w i c e     a n d   o n   T h u r s d a y   h e   s a i d   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t   h a d   m e t   t h a t   t e s t
M i n i s t e r s   w e r e   p i t c h i n g   t h e   v o t e   t o   p r o B r e x i t   h a r d l i n e r s   a s   t h e i r   l a s t   o p p o r t u n i t y   t o   s e c u r e   B r i t a i n s   e x i t   f r o m   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n   i n   t h e   c o m i n g   m o n t h s   l e s t   p r o E u r o p e a n s   i n   P a r l i a m e n t   t a k e   c o n t r o l   a n d   t r y   t o   f r u s t r a t e   B r e x i t   o r   f o r c e   a   l o n g e r   d e l a y
M i n i s t e r s   a l s o   h o p e d   t h e   d a t e   o f   t h e   v o t e     M a r c h   2 9   t h e   o r i g i n a l l y   s c h e d u l e d   d a y   f o r   B r i t a i n s   e x i t     w o u l d   p u t   s o m e   s y m b o l i c   p r e s s u r e   o n   p r o B r e x i t   C o n s e r v a t i v e s   t o   s w a l l o w   t h e i r   o b j e c t i o n s   a n d   b a c k   M r s   M a y
B u t   t h e   w i t h d r a w a l   a g r e e m e n t   c o n t a i n s   s o m e   o f   t h e   m o s t   c o n t e n t i o u s   p i e c e s   o f   M r s   M a y s   p l a n
A m o n g   t h e m   i s   t h e   s o c a l l e d   b a c k s t o p   t h a t   a t   l e a s t   t e m p o r a r i l y   b i n d s   B r i t a i n   a n d   t o   a   g r e a t e r   e x t e n t   N o r t h e r n   I r e l a n d   t o   E u r o p e a n   t r a d i n g   r u l e s   s o   a s   t o   a v o i d   c u s t o m s   c h e c k s   o n   t h e   h i s t o r i c a l l y   c o n t e n t i o u s   b o r d e r   b e t w e e n   I r e l a n d   p a r t   o f   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n   a n d   N o r t h e r n   I r e l a n d   w h i c h   i s   p a r t   o f   t h e   U n i t e d   K i n g d o m
U n i o n i s t s   i n   N o r t h e r n   I r e l a n d   r e j e c t   t h e   b a c k s t o p   b e c a u s e   t h e y   b e l i e v e   i t   w o u l d   c r e a t e   r e g u l a t o r y   d i f f e r e n c e s   b e t w e e n   N o r t h e r n   I r e l a n d   a n d   t h e   r e s t   o f   t h e   U n i t e d   K i n g d o m   p u t t i n g   t h e   u n i o n   a t   r i s k
A n d   B r i t i s h   n e w s   m e d i a   r e p o r t s   l a t e   T h u r s d a y   s a i d   u n i o n i s t s   i n t e n d e d   t o   v o t e   a g a i n s t   M r s   M a y s   p l a n   a g a i n   o n   F r i d a y   c o n s i d e r a b l y   n a r r o w i n g   t h e   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r s   p a t h   t o   v i c t o r y
T h e r e   w a s   s o m e   h o p e   a m o n g   C o n s e r v a t i v e s   t h a t   s p l i t t i n g   M r s   M a y s   p l a n   i n   t w o   w o u l d   s t r e n g t h e n   h e r   c a s e   w i t h   o p p o s i t i o n   L a b o u r   l a w m a k e r s   w h o s e   m a i n   o b j e c t i o n s   a r e   t o   t h e   p o l i t i c a l   d e c l a r a t i o n   a n d   n o t   t h e   w i t h d r a w a l   a g r e e m e n t
B u t   L a b o u r   l e a d e r s   r e a c t e d   a n g r i l y   t o   t h e   i d e a   o n   T h u r s d a y   n o t i n g   t h a t   M r s   M a y   h a d   p r e v i o u s l y   s a i d   t h e   t w o   p i e c e s   o f   h e r   p l a n   w e r e   i n e x t r i c a b l y   l i n k e d
K e i r   S t a r m e r   a   s e n i o r   L a b o u r   o f f i c i a l   w a r n e d   o n   T h u r s d a y   t h a t   s p l i t t i n g   t h e m   w o u l d   l e a v e   u s   w i t h   t h e   b l i n d e s t   o f   b l i n d f o l d   B r e x i t s   H e   w a s   r e f e r r i n g   t o   L a b o u r s   f e a r   t h a t   i f   P a r l i a m e n t   p a s s e d   p a r t   o f   M r s   M a y s   p l a n   a n d   t h e   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r   r e s i g n e d   a   h a r d l i n e   p r o B r e x i t   p o l i t i c i a n   l i k e   B o r i s   J o h n s o n   w o u l d   t a k e   o v e r   a n d   s h a p e   t h e   c r u c i a l   n e x t   s t a g e   o f   n e g o t i a t i o n s
S t e p h e n   D o u g h t y   a   L a b o u r   m e m b e r   o f   P a r l i a m e n t   s a i d   T h i s   l o o k s   t o   m e   l i k e   t r i c k e r y   o f   t h e   h i g h e s t   o r d e r
C o n f u s i o n   s w i r l e d   a l l   d a y   i n   P a r l i a m e n t   a b o u t   t h e   g o v e r n m e n t s   p l a n s   w i t h   m i n i s t e r s   l e a v i n g   l a w m a k e r s   i n   t h e   d a r k   a b o u t   w h a t   t h e y   w o u l d   b e   v o t i n g   o n   F r i d a y   u n t i l   l a t e   i n   t h e   a f t e r n o o n
A t   t h e   s a m e   t i m e   a n t i B r e x i t   l a w m a k e r s   w e r e   w o r k i n g   b e h i n d   t h e   s c e n e s   t o   p i c k   a   f e w   a l t e r n a t e   p l a n s   t o   p u t   b e f o r e   P a r l i a m e n t   o n   M o n d a y   i n   c a s e   M r s   M a y s   d e a l   d i d   n o t   p a s s   b e f o r e   t h e n
T h e   a n t i B r e x i t   l a w m a k e r s   w e r e   b u o y e d   b y   v o t e s   i n   P a r l i a m e n t   o n   W e d n e s d a y   n i g h t   o n   a   c a t a l o g   o f   p r o p o s a l s   t h a t   c l a s h e d   w i t h   M r s   M a y s
T h o s e   i n c l u d e d   o n c e r a d i c a l   i d e a s   l i k e   h o l d i n g   a   s e c o n d   p u b l i c   v o t e   o n   B r e x i t   o r   r e v o k i n g   B r i t a i n s   d e c i s i o n   t o   l e a v e   a l t o g e t h e r   a s   w e l l   a s   B r e x i t   p l a n s   t h a t   w o u l d   s e e   B r i t a i n   k e e p   c l o s e r   t i e s   t o   E u r o p e   t h a n   M r s   M a y s   p r o p o s a l   e n v i s i o n e d
T h e   v o t e s   r e p r e s e n t e d   t h e   f i r s t   t i m e   i n   t w o   y e a r s   o f   B r e x i t   n e g o t i a t i o n s   t h a t   P a r l i a m e n t   w a s   a l l o w e d   t o   e x p r e s s   i t s   f e e l i n g s   a b o u t   a l t e r n a t e   p l a n s   a n d   s o m e   l a w m a k e r s   h o p e d   t h e y   w o u l d   s h o w   a   p a t h   t o   c o m p r o m i s e
B u t   t o   t h e   c h a g r i n   o f   M r s   M a y s   o p p o n e n t s   a l l   e i g h t   a l t e r n a t e   p l a n s   f a i l e d   t o   m u s t e r   a   m a j o r i t y   l e a d i n g   t h e   B r i t i s h   n e w s p a p e r   T h e   G u a r d i a n   t o   r u n   t h i s   h e a d l i n e   o n   i t s   f r o n t   p a g e   o n   T h u r s d a y   N o   N o   N o   N o   N o   N o   N o   N o
S o m e   p r o p o s a l s   g o t   c l o s e   A   p l a n   f o r   a   c u s t o m s   u n i o n   b e t w e e n   B r i t a i n   a n d   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n   l o s t   b y   s i x   v o t e s   M r   B e r c o w   s a i d   a   t a l l y i n g   e r r o r   h a d   o r i g i n a l l y   l e d   h i m   t o   s a y   i t   w a s   a n   e i g h t v o t e   m a r g i n
A n d   t h e   o p t i o n   o f   h o l d i n g   a n o t h e r   r e f e r e n d u m   t o   t e s t   B r i t o n s   v i e w s   a b o u t   l e a v i n g   t h e   b l o c   a t t r a c t e d   m o r e   s u p p o r t   t h a n   e x p e c t e d   2 6 8   m e m b e r s   v o t e d   i n   f a v o r   a n d   2 9 5   a g a i n s t
T h e   r e s u l t   o n   t h e   p r o p o s a l   f o r   a   s e c o n d   r e f e r e n d u m   c o m i n g   a f t e r   a   w e e k e n d   w h e n   h u n d r e d s   o f   t h o u s a n d s   o f   p e o p l e   m a r c h e d   i n   L o n d o n   f o r   a n o t h e r   v o t e   a n d   m o r e   t h a n   f i v e   m i l l i o n   s i g n e d   a   p e t i t i o n   a s k i n g   t o   c a n c e l   B r e x i t   w a s   a   s i g n   o f   h o w   t h e   v i e w s   o f   a n t i B r e x i t   p o l i t i c i a n s   h a v e   g r o w n   m o r e   i n t e n s e   a s   t h e   p r o c e s s   d r a g s   o n
T h e   n o n b i n d i n g   v o t e s   s e t   t h e   s t a g e   f o r   a n o t h e r   r o u n d   o f   d e b a t e   i n   P a r l i a m e n t   o n   M o n d a y   w h e n   t h e   m e n u   o f   a l t e r n a t e   o p t i o n s   i s   t o   b e   w h i t t l e d   a n d   p o l i t i c i a n s   g i v e n   a   s e c o n d   c h a n c e   t o   c o a l e s c e   b e h i n d   a   n e w   p l a n
I f   M r s   M a y s   w i t h d r a w a l   a g r e e m e n t   p a s s e s   o n   F r i d a y   P a r l i a m e n t   w o u l d   m e e t   t h e   E u r o p e a n   U n i o n s   d e a d l i n e   f o r   c o m p l e t i n g   t h e   B r e x i t   p r o c e s s   a n d   e x t r a c t i n g   B r i t a i n   f r o m   t h e   b l o c   b y   M a y   2 2
I f   n o t   B r i t a i n   c o u l d   c r a s h   o u t   o f   t h e   b l o c   w i t h o u t   a   d e a l   o n   A p r i l   1 2   i n   w h a t   a n a l y s t s   s a y   w o u l d   b e   a   c a l a m i t o u s   e x i t   o r   i t   c o u l d   a s k   f o r   a   l o n g e r   e x t e n s i o n
M r s   M a y s   o f f e r   t o   r e s i g n   w a s   a n o t h e r   r e m i n d e r   t h a t   f o r   a l l   t h e   a n x i e t y   i n   B r i t a i n   o v e r   B r e x i t   C o n s e r v a t i v e   P a r t y   p o l i t i c s   a r e   s t i l l   d i c t a t e d   t o   a   l a r g e   d e g r e e   b y   m e m b e r s   l e a d e r s h i p   a m b i t i o n s
P r o B r e x i t   p o l i t i c i a n s   l i k e   M r   J o h n s o n   h a v e   l o n g   b e e n   a n g l i n g   t o   t a k e   o v e r   f r o m   M r s   M a y   a n d   t h e   c h a n c e   t o   d o   s o   s o o n e r   r a t h e r   t h a n   l a t e r   s e e m e d   t o   b e   e n o u g h   f o r   m a n y   t o   b a c k   d o w n   f r o m   m o n t h s   o f   f i e r c e   o p p o s i t i o n   t o   h e r   d e a l
M r   J o h n s o n   o n c e   s a i d   t h a t   M r s   M a y s   d e a l   h a d   s t r a p p e d   a   s u i c i d e   v e s t   a r o u n d   t h e   c o u n t r y   A n o t h e r   h a r d l i n e   p r o B r e x i t   l a w m a k e r   J a c o b   R e e s M o g g   s a i d   t h e   p r i m e   m i n i s t e r s   p l a n   w o u l d   t u r n   B r i t a i n   i n t o   a   s l a v e   s t a t e
O n   W e d n e s d a y   b o t h   s a i d   t h e y   w o u l d   b a c k   h e r   d e a l



A d v e r t i s e m e n t
A
S
I
B
O
T
P
B
A
L
T
T
A
T
I
I
I
F
D
A
A
S
W
B
O
S
U
T
I
T
F
M
B
T
T
B
E
P
R
T
A
A
I
T
A
Y
I
T
F
R
Y
A
A
S
E
B
L
E
T
I
T
T
G
W
C
E
E
A
A
A
S
G
B
W
W
W
T
H
A
W
B
F
W
D
A
M
A
H
W
P
T
W
W
B
C
S
A
B
P
T
C
B
S
A
K
T
D
 
 
 
 
P
 
 
 
 
T
 
 
 
T
 
 
 
 
B
 
 
 
 
 
T
W
A
A
S
B
M
T
T
O
A
L
T
C
W
A
I
T
T
T
N
T
F
Advertisement
Supported
Its another sign President Trumps weakness
By David Leonhardt
Opinion Columnist
This article part David Leonhardts newsletter You sign receive weekday
President Trumps emergency declaration border wall based obvious falsehood There emergency USMexico border And goaded declaration Sean Hannity episode makes mockery federal government
But relative scheme Trumps misbehavior emergency declaration doesnt rank high Its corruption obstruction justice Its attempt undermine Americas alliance Western Europe And doesnt even matter much immigration policy If youre trying calibrate Trumprelated outrage take deep breath morning
A presidential declaration emergency order construct wall would stupid Lawfares Quinta Jurecic wrote It would wasteful It would test limits presidents authority law question But would step toward authoritarianism Heres longer version case
Listen The Argument podcast every Thursday morning Ross Douthat Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt
This challenged courts immediately pretty easy throw thing Neal Katyal former acting solicitor general predicted Lawrence ODonnells MSNBC show last night
Trumps fake emergency sign weakness strength tweeted The New Yorkers John Cassidy He ran wall two years Republican control Congress still couldnt get financed Weak president
And Philip Klein The Washington Examiner made conservative case declaration The hope limited government conservatives emergency declaration gets quickly enjoined eventually nixed federal court At least silver lining would legal precedent would set president attempt end around Congress
The China rivalry
Ive always thought Americans would come together realized faced dangerous foreign foe colleague David Brooks writes And lo behold one China Its become increasingly clear China grave economic technological intellectual threat United States world order
I agree United States complacent geopolitical challenge China poses
If subscriber newsletter subscribe You also join Twitter DLeonhardt Facebook
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
David Leonhardt former Washington bureau chief Times founding editor The Upshot head The 2020 Project future Times newsroom He 2011 Pulitzer Prize commentary columns financial crisis DLeonhardt Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Why American conservatism Trump may learn like state
By Ross Douthat
Opinion Columnist
Since conservatism became movement 1950s American right understood defending written American Constitution unwritten one well kind cultural social constitution deeply rooted national history checks balances official political system help sustain
Under constitution America three branches government great diversity power centers religious corporate familial philanthropic Under constitution important institutions national life arent political ones theyre institutions civil society flourished conservative argument goes precisely government kept within limits state hasnt coopted crushed rivals influence power
Thus conservatives preach virtues limited government isnt Herbert Hoovers rugged individual imagine defending They envision larger communitarian panoply civic associations religious denominations charities universities private schools needs protection jealousy centralizing state And tend assume keeping American corporation embedded communitarian system better way balance productivity innovation publicspiritedness trying regulate micromanage businesses good behavior
If wanted summarize intellectual uncertainties conservatives Trump era could say right trying figure whether unwritten American constitution imagines defending still exists And doesnt failing whether means limited government slogan strategy increasingly irrelevant comes shaping society conservatives would like America
The latter argument Donald Trump implicitly pressed optimistic opponents 2016 primaries They defenders American dream conservatives long defined dark conspiratorial tones businessman rival raised set uncomfortable questions Is America still nation thriving local communities energetic civic life Is America still deeply religious country strong churches growing denominations Are American businessmen basically public spirited eager compete equal terms government removes heavy hand natural allies political movement wedded patriotism religion
For years conservative critics sociologists intellectuals acknowledging answers might countrys oncerich associational civic religious life declining dissolving corporate America embraces conservative slogans keep taxes low unions weak otherwise seems postpatriotic performatively woke silent majority hardworking pious culturally conservative bluecollar families essentially defunct
Many best conservative books last decade Coming Apart Charles Murray The Fractured Republic Yuval Levin describe emerging America doesnt much resemble Tocquevillian familychurchcommunity landscape familiar past conservative descriptions American exceptionalism The latest example Alienated America Why Some Places Thrive While Others Collapse Tim Carney mix sociology shoeleather reporting convincingly situates rise Trump context Middle Americas communitarian collapse
But accounts like Carneys acknowledge role economic forces globalization trade deindustrialization dissolution family community also tend insist contra liberals new socialist vanguard also contra Trump cultural collapse isnt primarily driven economic policy decisions cant reversed public policies programs Instead tend suggest state interventions often replace community instead strengthening cast communitarian revival necessarily local project government play best supporting dontmakemattersworse kind role
These kind arguments still continuity basic conservative posture last generations But also increasingly partisans rupture right loose group statepower conservatives hint Tocquevillian dream dying cause limited government increasingly irrelevant turn would require conservatives become comfortable using power state engaged centralized policymaking specific social cultural ends mind
This argument visible controversy surrounding Tucker Carlsons monologue month ago stirred libertarian backlash calling Republicans use government policy make American life friendlier families particularly singleearner households It also informs difference Carneys book smart rightofcenter volume moment Oren Casss The Once Future Worker The two authors share certain common ground end Carney concludes current economic social ills solved even significantly ameliorated president central government Casss whole thesis wiser policymaking could make big difference unhappy heartlanders Carney profiles
But fullest case rupture declaring era limited government offered two recent essays conservative intellectual journals Dan McCarthys A New Conservative Agenda First Things Gladden Pappins Toward Party State American Affairs Both envision conservatism oriented less toward stateasenemy stateasdanger much toward stateasshaper stateasharmonizer For instance McCarthys account economic nationalism Donald Trump transmuted something less inchoate effective
Economic nationalism tariffs It less economic nationalism takes account different needs different walks life regions country serving whole serving parts drawing together In past challenge harmonize farmers urban capital labor The challenge balance groups postindustrial classes well strengthen productive economy largely fictional economy administrators clerks All sake prosperity raw dollar terms national economy provides basis healthy culture citizens families flourish
Pappin makes similar argument political coalitions especially right adapt current challenge illiberal postliberal forces populist socialist
Rather asking question What conservativesprogressives considerable advances made certain purely practical considerations How integrity national political community assured How commercial activity technological development continue turned toward common good toward strategic advantage What reins power state ensure common good citizens
The likely answers practical questions Pappin contends require conservatives make practical use administrative state rightwing ends rather constantly returning plaintive nostalgic counterproductive calls abolition
A hostile reader essays libertarian liberal might respond vision rightwing governments seek reshape culture mediate classes resembles nothing much early20th century fascism A sympathetic reader would say plenty space statefriendly conservative politics movement conservatism Mussolini McCarthy Pappin envisioning might better described blend American Hamiltonian tradition 21stcentury update French Gaullism
And subtle reader might say theyre trying provide theory move Republican Party power tends make anyway last two GOP presidents sense big government conservatives far without strategy seriousness selfconsciousness required make project success
I enough skepticism efficacy state power uncertain project succeed But postTrump conservatives likely drawn statepower conservatism theoretical ambition sense political necessity
The earlier conservative selfunderstanding right defending nongovernmental institutions power state tacitly depended assumption many nongovernmental institutions would friendly conservative values But civil society decayed recent decades remaining power centers also become increasingly leftwing
Alreadyliberal institutions universities Hollywood big foundations mass media uniformly allied left even recent past Corporate America happily donates Republicans fears Bernie Sanders presidency cultural issues big business courts younger customers progressive lobbying propaganda In religion Catholicism Pope Francis aspires scandals permitting ease way leftward well leaving evangelical Christianity isolated bastion little cultureshaping power
Yet conservatives still win White House Congress means one power center hope control one notionally organized limit administrative state
If assume people tend seek power devise justifications seeking power plausibly exercised statepower conservatives may need strongest intellectual arguments change way right thinks state Instead limited government conservatism may give way attempt improve Trumpism clearer blueprints smarter cadres reason changes often happen political ideology people whose thinking changing feel dont choice
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTOpinion Instagram join Facebook political discussion group Voting While Female
Ross Douthat Opinion columnist The Times since 2009 He author several books recently To Change Church Pope Francis Future Catholicism You follow Twitter DouthatNYT
You follow Twitter DouthatNYT
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Eurotunnel sued Department Transport handling contracts provide extra freight capacity
By Amie Tsang
LONDON Add list headaches faced Britains government frantically tries prepare Brexit 33 million pound 44 million payment settle lawsuit brought Eurotunnel company operates rail link France Britain
Eurotunnel sued Britains Department Transport handling contracts provide extra transportation capacity event country leaves European Union without deal place
The company accused British government limiting competition open bidding contracts worth millions dollars according court filings
In December Britains government signed contracts DFDS Danish shipping company Brittany Ferries French company supply extra freight capacity bring essential goods medicines country event nodeal Brexit
The government also signed contract Seaborne Freight ferry company later found BBC run ferry service The deal came heavy criticism one lawmaker calling shell company The firm also ridiculed echoing website terms conditions business specializing takeout meals Seaborne Freight pulled contract
The government settled case Eurotunnel avoid prolonged legal tussle tries make arrangements March 29 country scheduled exit European Union
Government departments Britains businesses furiously preparing case country leaves European Union without agreement setting terms separation There fears lack clarity port arrangements could lead gridlock roads problems getting food medicine people Britain
We taking steps ensure supply chains continue function whatever circumstances departure mitigation place avoid disruption borders Stephen Barclay Brexit secretary said statement Friday
Chris Grayling transport secretary added While disappointing Eurotunnel chose take legal action contracts place ensure smooth supply vital medicines I pleased agreement ensure Channel Tunnel ready postBrexit world
Eurotunnel agreed withdraw case take unspecified actions improve security traffic flow
Eurotunnel concluded outofcourt agreement secretary state transport ensure Channel Tunnel remains preferred route vital goods travel EU UK company said
Amie Tsang general assignment business reporter based London covered variety topics including gender pay gap aviation London Fatberg amietsang
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday Want email Sign
Bipartisan negotiations forge border security deal broke yesterday potentially setting federal government another shutdown ahead Friday deadline
What happened The impasse appears center Democratic demands limit number unauthorized immigrants already country could detained Immigration Customs Enforcement officers according aides familiar talks according NYT Republicans wanted exception cap criminals Democrats said proposed 16500bed cap left enough room
Whats stake The last shutdown longest US history cost American economy 11 billion tanked President Trumps political standing public Another shutdown could cause economic harm hitting IRS tax season starts
Whats next Lawmakers could pass another shortterm spending bill though many reluctant punt final budget agreement Meanwhile Mr Trump preparing hold rally supporters El Paso Many city arent happy But really two choices according Axios shut government declare national emergency get border wall money options horrible
The Amazon founder risked embarrassment going public said extortion attempt The National Enquirer So far hes scoring big points Saturday Night Live jokes aside
His disclosure gotten results Federal prosecutors reviewing extortion claim NYT reports citing unnamed sources If The Enquirers parent company broke law would violation nonprosecution agreement paying hush money help President Trump 2016 A lawyer publishers chairman said yesterday company committed crime
And hes winning PR battle At time billionaires reviled Maureen Dowd NYT writes richest dude earth managed come traumatic week inspiring admiration Glenn Greenwald The Intercept counters would odd Mr Bezos gain pity given Amazon critical partner US government building evermore invasive militarized sprawling surveillance state
Where The Enquirer go wrong Danny Westneat The Seattle Times points picked fight head company powerful got Seattle change tax policies 3 billion tax incentives New York office space You dont pressure Amazon It goes way around Mr Westneat writes
But Mr Bezos could still lose Jon Swartz Barrons notes Amazon shares fell 26 percent Friday His handson management considered crucial success company anything pulls attention away daytoday management least concern investors Mr Swartz writes
Fears Britains withdrawal EU could roil economies officially spread across Atlantic
Wall Street warned Brexits impact With less seven weeks go UK due leave EU several SP 500 groups first time put Wall Street formal notice risks London Brussels fail reach divorce deal FT reports Companies like Lockheed Martin McCormick Expedia Cadbury spoken
Driving concern fears depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable Britain costs imported British goods could rise Theres also fear broader effect Brexit global political economic stability
American banks also nervous While US banks want Britain maintain closest possible ties EU Brexit UK banks insurers anxious dont become beholden new laws made Brussels Bloomberg reports
More Brexit news The EUs chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said reopen existing Brexit deal open reworking political declaration accompanies The British government trying secure extra two weeks win concessions Europe promising lawmakers another vote Britains withdrawal options And Prime Minister Theresa May also offered concessions opposing Labour Party break current impasse Parliament
Americans getting rude surprise Their refunds appear getting smaller despite President Trump Republicans passing huge set tax cuts year ago
How big drop The average refund 1865 84 percent smaller average refund period last year Reuters reports citing figures IRS Heather Long WaPo adds number people receiving refund fallen nearly 25 percent far The IRS warns read much figures part data result delayed processing due government shutdown
Why happening Its actually sign Americans paying taxes People generally got piece tax cut last year gradually form lower withholding paychecks Joseph Rosenberg UrbanBrookings Tax Policy Center told WaPo
People angry nonetheless The WaPo reports People already taken social media using hashtag GOPTaxScam vent anger Many blame President Trump Republicans shrinking refunds Some Twitter even said wouldnt vote Trump seeing refunds slashed
The last class tech companies gained valuations 1 billion including Uber Airbnb remade entire industries Dont expect next wave nearly flashy according Erin Griffith NYT
Who They names like Benchling Checkr Zola many create software specific industries including data analysis systems farmers background checks gig workers
Why arent exciting predecessors Ms Griffith points Uber Airbnb peers built global empires simply taking existing businesses like taxis food delivery hotels making mobile Easy opportunities disrupt traditional businesses dried forcing new companies find smaller niches
But dont underestimate potential Maybe sexy companies first wave venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded NYT But Anand Sanwal data provider CB Insights said still growing fast adding If one highmomentum companies investors going beating door much interest investing next big winner
Christine Lagarde managing director International Monetary Fund warned yesterday global economy growing slowly anticipated
She sees four big risks Trade tensions tariff escalations financial tightening uncertainty related Brexit outcome spillover impact accelerated slowdown Chinese economy clouds horizon told World Government Summit Dubai
And could spell trouble When many clouds added takes one lighting bolt start storm
But IMF thinks Fed playing smart The fact Fed put pause raising rates going provide lot support economy Gita Gopinath IMFs top economist told FT We endorse Fed view datadriven approach
President Trump expected sign executive order today meant spur development regulation artificial intelligence Cade Metz NYT writes
The news Mr Trump introduce American AI Initiative aims better educate workers field improve access cloud computing services data needed build AI systems promote cooperation foreign powers
Context AI experts across industry academia government long called Trump administration make development artificial intelligence major priority Mr Metz writes adding concerned China could surpass United States development technologies
But The order set aside funds AI research development Mr Metz adds administration provided details put new policies effect
Steve Mandel stepped head hedge fund Lone Pine Capital
Among reasons Santander rescinded offer hire investment banker Andrea Orcel Reportedly desire attend World Economic Forum Davos Switzerland
Kristina Salen former chief financial officer shopping site Etsy joined Moda Operandi luxury fashion startup CFO
The English Premier League looking America successor CEO Richard Scudamore British candidates appear uninterested job
Deals
The aluminumparts maker Arconic plans break WSJ
Apollo Global Management reportedly near deal buy Cox Enterprisess 14 regional TV stations 3 billion Reuters
The medical equipment maker Smith Nephew reportedly held talks buy NuVasive maker medical instruments spinal surgeries 3 billion FT
TPG Capital closed seventh Asiafocused private equity fund 46 billion Reuters
Politics policy
Democratic lawmakers proposing steep new taxes superrich public loves NYT
Senator Michael Bennet Democrat Colorado potential presidential candidate says cutting private health insurance part Medicare bad opening offer Politico
President Trump succeeded dividing Democrats warning socialism Hill
The biggest star Clive Daviss exclusive preGrammys gala Speaker Nancy Pelosi AP
Trade
Trade talks US China resume today Beijing Straits Times
White House officials reportedly discussed summit meeting President Trump President Xi Jinping China MaraLago next month resolve trade fight Axios
The trade agreement replace Nafta faces uphill climb Congress Axios
Tech
Some Amazon executives reportedly reconsidering decision set campus New York opponents think might bluff WSJ Recode
Huawei threatened sue Czech Republic countrys cybersecurity agency rescind warning risk company poses nations critical infrastructure NYT
Sprint accused ATT false advertising saying rival incorrectly telling customers receiving 5G data service WSJ
Tesla may finally delivering Model 3s cant keep servicing WSJ
Best rest
A new activist hedge fund Impactive Capital rarity Its female minorityled WSJ
Household staples diapers baking soda may get expensive WSJ
US colleges raised 467 billion year ended last June led Harvard 14 billion Bloomberg
Heres rundown 100 sustainable US companies according Barrons Barrons
How Feds recent Uturn rates cascaded global markets NYT
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ivan Nechepurenko
MOSCOW Russian lawmakers moving restrict freedom speech passed bills Thursday would introduce jail terms fines insulting government online spreading socalled fake news
The bills seen effort preempt control public criticism Russias prolonged economic stagnation pushes Kremlins approval ratings They reflect nearly twodecadelong project President Vladimir V Putin put information flow state control push made difficult growth internet
The new measures await final passage upper chamber parliament Mr Putins signature He expressed support restrictions insulting state online
One set bills passed lower house Duma would subject private individuals fines 3000 15 days administrative arrest insulting government online Individuals would face fines 6000 posting termed fake news
Another bill would demand news media outlets websites remove information shows clear disrespect society state symbols Russian Constitution government Internet service providers website owners would one day remove insults face complete block
Lawmakers also passed bill would force websites immediately remove false publicly important information government watchdog deems threat public order
The measures stipulate clearly would considered fake news The authors said interviews would determined state prosecutors government communications watchdog
Critics said measures loosely defined allow government block information online finds undesirable
With bills wording vague possible Vladimir A Ryzhkov opposition politician said Facebook create possibilities widest possible arbitrariness law enforcement As result societys trust government fall public atmosphere poisoned
As Russians switch television largely controlled state Kremlin allies internet main source information government made keeping web control top priority
In February lawmakers proposed creating infrastructure separate Russia global internet altogether Last year state banned Telegram popular messaging app
The Russian government opened assault socalled fake news even United States accused Moscow engaging practice disinformation campaign intended sway 2016 American presidential election
The new bills passed Russians trust government agencies Mr Putin particular steadily declining For first time since annexation Crimea 2014 number Russians say country heading wrong direction surpassed say opposite The finding came poll conducted January independent pollster Levada
The share people approve Mr Putins work president declined 20 percentage points since reached postCrimea peak 86 percent 2015
Nikolai F Uskov editor Forbes Russia magazine frequent commentator said bills governments weapon media
The government clearly getting ready protest moods grow reflected publications social networks media said speaking Ekho Moskvy radio station I dont think save state added wave anger sweep away restrictions
Follow Ivan Nechepurenko Twitter INechepurenko


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By David Zucchino Fahim Abed
KABUL Afghanistan Afghanistans coalition government fired Tuesday commissioners directed fraudtainted parliamentary elections last fall country prepares presidential race summer watches leaders sidelines peace talks unfold Americans Taliban
The move follows push opposition politicians postpone election form interim government part peace deal could include Taliban President Ashraf Ghani fumed governments exclusion AmericanTaliban talks insisted election held time
The firings came series meetings government civil society groups political parties portrayed badly needed consensus electoral reform The commissioners called dismissal political decision officials hope serve new government
The election already pushed back April July The panel behind decision Independent Election Commission one two whose members removed Tuesday
Replacement commissioners named Mr Ghani coalition partner Abdullah Abdullah charged preparing presidential election feature men candidates
Mr Ghani said central government strong mandate negotiate behalf country The Taliban dealing directly Americans refused include Afghan government consider illegitimate
Zalmay Khalilizad leader American delegation said last week hoped secure peace deal July election He said last month United States Taliban agreed principle framework peace deal
The Afghan election commission widely accused sowing confusion disarray October parliamentary elections three years late tainted accusations voterigging bribery incompetence Winners certified third 250 seats Parliament
The attorney generals office prosecuted 313 people accused violations including forging selling election stickers national ID cards needed cast vote
In statement late Tuesday office said 12 commissioners two election bodies barred leaving country investigators appointed look charges abuse authority
The firings set legal confrontation dismissed members saying move violated election law
The amendment election law presidential decree president also candidate Constitution commissioners said joint statement This political decision legal constitutional one
Mr Ghanis deputy spokesman Shahhusain Murtazawi said election results remain place He said protests could lodged second affected commission called Independent Election Complaint Commission judicial groups The head commissions secretariat remains place acting director
Given officials administered election fired roughly 2000 losing candidates expected protest If results reexamined canceled would affect preparations presidential election already behind schedule assurance required funding place
One losing parliamentary candidate Fawad Aman said anyone seated Parliament would remain cloud suspicion And commissioners punished said Afghans could lose faith electoral process refrain voting
If dismissed prosecuted means political game president influence election commissions presidential election Mr Aman said
Nayim Ayubzada head Transparent Election Foundation Afghanistan independent election monitoring group said firings made hastily government paid little attention legal process addressing fraud accusations
We worry decision president candidate may things turn things favor Mr Ayubzada said If decides hastily election issues raise questions transparency elections
Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah appoint new heads members commissions selected candidates put forward civil society groups political parties within next week
Supporters firings said necessary make commissioners accountable bungling expensive election process secured Afghan forces amid raging war Each Afghan election bankrolled international donations proved least problematic last
The 2014 presidential election fraudulent two leading candidates claimed victory nearly tore country apart prompted Western officials step mediators John Kerry secretary state negotiated powersharing government top two candidates Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah promise would prioritize election reforms avoid another fiasco
The two men slow make progress reforms given infighting government war Taliban Now Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah get name new commissioners oversee election peak summer fighting season peace process plays
Those challenges left many Afghans skeptical new commissioners Mr Ayubzada election observer said doubted presidential election would even held year process overshadowed ongoing peace talks political dealing
Mujib Mashal contributed reporting Kandahar Afghanistan




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Tuesday Want email Sign
Democratic Republican negotiators said last night agreement principle border security funding could keep federal government open
The deal includes 138 billion pay 55 miles new fencing technology staffing border protection Its 57 billion President Trump demanded build 200mile wall Democrats waived demand limits detention capacity immigrants
But theres guarantee go The House Senate would vote pact Mr Trump would sign I think everyone say Good work Representative Kay Granger Texas one Republican negotiators said Still rally Texas last night Mr Trump insisted build wall And influential Republican commentators like Fox News host Sean Hannity called deal garbage compromise
The remaining alternatives hugely unattractive Politico notes potential White House plan redirect unspent federal funds toward wall would create firestorm And another government shutdown could hit US economy endanger aviation safety
The British prime minister scheduled update lawmakers later today progress negotiations withdrawing EU
She big favor ask Mrs May focused making changes socalled backstop exit deal designed prevent hard border Ireland Northern Ireland She made little headway Bloomberg explains plan today
Mrs May update Parliament progress talks EU outline motion shell put MPs debate Thursday office said
She expected ask Parliament restate demand remove backstop Withdrawal Agreement promise vote hasnt brought renegotiated deal back Parliament Feb 27
The aim reassure members across House Commons concerned May deliberately running clock risking potentially disastrous nodeal divorce
But EU still isnt budging Its chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said yesterday something give British side
Yet Mrs May could force plan Parliament Bloomberg explains though also admits lot could go wrong
More Brexit news Britain weakest economic growth six years last year It signed trade deal Switzerland biggest since 2016 Brexit referendum And government sued awarding contract freight shipments nodeal Brexit ferry company boats
The former Fed chairman recently sat Ray Dalio Bridgewater Capital wideranging conversation topics state US principles good government Dont time watch Here highlights
On Washington Mr Volcker lamented condition US government repeating past criticisms Youve got presidents dont seem mind either personal behavior making outrageous statements true told Mr Dalio You Congress thats unable function effectively
On Civil Service For former Fed chairman important problem solve make government work appear honorable Public administrations bad word told Mr Dalio leaving important government departments without effective leaders
What Mr Volcker He set Volcker Alliance meant help schools train future government officials Its great trick Mr Volcker said How get expertise leadership need still respect popular desire
Optimism personal finances hasnt high 16 years according study Gallup
Sixtynine percent Americans expect better time next year That two percentage points alltime high 71 percent recorded March 1998 according Gallup Thats survey carried Jan 2 Jan 10 middle government shutdown
Half respondents say theyre better year ago That figure consistently half since 2007 Gallup says
The optimism hard overstate Only 11 times 109 polls stretching back 1976 least half polled said better financial shape year prior Gallup notes Only 114 polls going back 1977 Americans optimistic personal finances coming year today
Europe sleepwalking oblivion people Europe need wake late George Soros writes opinion piece Project Syndicate
Neither leaders ordinary citizens seem understand experiencing revolutionary moment range possibilities broad eventual outcome thus highly uncertain
The next inflection point elections European Parliament May 2019 Unfortunately antiEuropean forces enjoy competitive advantage balloting
The first step defending Europe enemies internal external recognize magnitude threat present The second awaken sleeping proEuropean majority mobilize defend values EU founded
The firm said yesterday would buy Solium Capital manages stock paid corporate employees 900 million Its biggest deal major Wall Street firm since financial crisis whats rationale
The bank wants millennial wealth Soliums clients include startups like Instacart Stripe could go public multibilliondollar valuations making employees rich
Wall Street approves strategy Analysts Evercore ISI wrote yesterday Solium gives Morgan Stanley real path towards organic growth next generation clients many investors questioning Matthew Klein Barrons wrote last week millennials could hold key improving American productivity wealth
And banks seem newly hungry deals Days Morgan Stanleys acquisition BBT agreed buy SunTrust biggest bank merger since 2008 crisis Banking chiefs seem heartened loosened regulations sector eager capitalize acquisitions Wed like James Gorman Morgan Stanleys CEO told WSJ And JPMorgan Chase reportedly considered buying asset manager WisdomTree according Bloomberg
Its eight months Mario Draghis finishes nonrenewable term president European Central Bank Choosing successor important difficult WSJ reports
Investors trusted Mr Draghi WSJ says navigate toxic mix risks Europe Brexit trade wars
At least five unofficial candidates appear running replace according European officials two Frenchmen two Finns German The candidates different economic philosophies clear frontrunner
The winner might chosen balance nationalities EUs leadership rather purely merit The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo chief executive Centre European Policy Studies Brussels think tank risks Its systemically important job Europe man controls show said It go badly wrong
WSJ reporters scoured fourthquarter results US companies attempt better understand slowing Chinas economic growth
What found Many companies struggling weaker demand export manufacturers China pulling back amid fears trade tensions worsen Austen Hufford Theo Francis WSJ report Retailers companies catering Chinese consumers face signs weakness among countrys growing middle class They buying fewer cars phones traveling less
The conclusion The indications slowing growth broad still modest Mr Hufford Mr Francis write
Just half PGEs directors stand reelection year utility filed bankruptcy amid California wildfires
ColgatePalmolive named Noel Wallace COO chief executive replacing Ian Cook
GV venture capital arm Alphabet hired David Schenkein former CEO Agios Pharmaceuticals cohead life sciences
Apple named Frank Casanova longtime iPhone executive first head marketing augmented reality
Sony appointed Jim Ryan CEO PlayStation business
Deals
Colony Capital investment firm founded real estate mogul Tom Barrack explore selling assets activist hedge fund Blackwells Capital took stake Colony
SoftBanks Vision Fund led 940 million investment Nuro driverless delivery startup FT
Amazon agreed buy Eero makes wireless routers advance smarthome ambitions Reuters
Peloton makes videostreaming stationary bikes treadmills reportedly interviewing banks prepare IPO WSJ
DoorDash delivery startup reportedly process raising 500 million 6 billion valuation WSJ
Reddit raised 150 million Tencent users fear censorship Verge
Politics policy
President Trump Gov Andrew Cuomo New York meet today discuss revising cap deductions state local taxes Bloomberg
Democratic presidential contenders see small donors rather traditional wealthy backers test viability 2020 race WaPo
Contrary popular belief Mr Trumps presidency hurt Americas gun lobby NYT editorial
Trade
President Trump reportedly eager meet President Xi Jinping China discuss trade deal Bloomberg
American tariffs Chinese goods reduced two countries trade imbalance without helping US companies Axios
Chinese investments Israeli tech companies raising security concerns WSJ
Tech
Whats like contractor one Apples less glamorous offices Not much fun Bloomberg
Mars One Ventures promised oneway trips red planet bankrupt Verge
If New York doesnt want new Amazon campus Newark Bloomberg
Alphabet Microsoft discreetly warning AI could harm brands Wired
The Jeff Bezos saga
The American Media Inc lawyer reportedly sought deal Mr Bezoss private photos Amazon Kindle executive WSJ
American Media reportedly asked Justice Department whether needed register foreign agent ties Saudi Arabia WSJ
The WaPo found tricky situation reporting owners fight The National Enquirer cause battle NYT
Best rest
Could leveraged loans sink US economy FT
For two years Goldman Sachs bet companies strong balance sheets Not anymore CNBC
The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says theres mania share buybacks hes worried social consequences CNBC
Toys R Us planning comeback later year NYT
Is corporate America headed toward earnings recession DealBook
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Chinas openingup policies led improvements life business

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role posts creation
Advertisement
Supported
New Zealands prime minister moved swiftly ban weapons mass killing gunman attacked two mosques
By The Editorial Board
The editorial board represents opinions board editor publisher It separate newsroom OpEd section
The murder 50 Muslim worshipers New Zealand allegedly 28yearold Australian white supremacist long scrutinized way violent hatreds spawned staged social media internet But world learn way Jacinda Ardern New Zealands prime minister responded horror
Almost immediately last Fridays killings Ms Ardern listened constituents outrage declared within days government would introduce new controls militarystyle weapons Christchurch shooter many mass killers United States used rampages And delivered
On Thursday Ms Ardern announced ban militarystyle semiautomatic automatic weapons parts used turn rifles weapons highcapacity ammunition magazines Its us said national interest safety
Earlier week told Parliament social media sites must address ease internet used spew hate images violence We simply sit back accept platforms exist said responsibility place published said It case profit responsibility
Ms Ardern didnt propose immediate measures limit reach Facebook Twitter internet publishers obvious could done without trampling freedom speech But made clear believed social media platforms like gun manufacturers dealers bore responsibility carnage visited Christchurch many communities recent years
The new gun proposal require considerable finetuning defining becomes law New Zealands existing laws relatively lenient large percentage estimated 12 million 15 million firearms owned 250000 people registered It known many become illegal new laws
But display one deranged man weapons designed combat seemed persuade majority New Zealanders strong majority Parliament need ban rapidfiring weapons
That attitude stood stark contrast way National Rifle Association political allies United States resisted restrictions weapons like AR15 semiautomatic rifle used several mass killings
In New Zealand took one mass shooting awaken government In United States even string mass killings 26 dead school Newtown Conn 49 nightclub Orlando 58 concert Las Vegas 17 school Parkland Fla enough Nor fact 73 percent Americans say needs done curb gun violence according recent polling
The ban terrorists weapon choice one areas Ms Ardern showed leadership looks like time crisis In lieu trite messages donned black head scarf led group politicians visit victims families speaking without script school victims attended urged pupils let New Zealand place tolerance racism Ever She told grieving families We know grief walk every stage
And striking gesture refused utter name suspected killer He may sought notoriety New Zealand give nothing said Not even name
After atrocity worlds leaders unite clearly condemning racism sharing grief victims stripping haters weapons Ms Ardern shown way
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Get 3D view Chinas government plans 2019

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role posts creation
Advertisement
Supported
The journalist Maria Ressa facing criminal charges social media threats
By Kara Swisher
Ms Swisher covers technology contributing opinion writer
Harassing journalists one Rodrigo Dutertes specialties Mr Duterte strongman president Philippines going Maria Ressa former CNN reporter founder online news site Rappler two years The campaign combines criminal charges Facebook smears intended tarnish reputation spread lies work
Last week Ms Ressa spent night jail charge cyberlibel 2012 article Rappler published allegations corrupt ties businessman judge
When spoke Skype Thursday attempts silence said I adjust normal even nothing normal She added It scare meant scare everyone else
Technically spent night conference room rather cell National Bureau Investigation agents trying nice told
It perhaps small gracious act relentless assault Ms Ressa Rappler
Kara Swisher answered questions Twitter
Rappler President Dutertes brutal regime publishing articles extrajudicial killings human rights abuses In mid2017 State Union speech president struck back criticizing Rappler owned Americans investors indeed United States He attempted get license revoked Ms Ressa charged tax evasion Then arrest cyberlibel considered criminal act
While seemed tired legal roadblocks undaunted even funny spoke I think I paid bail Imelda Marcos said referring shoeloving wife longtime ruler Philippines went ignominy
It morning Manila journalism Instead adding security Rapplers offices protect 100 employees forking money pay lawyers Legal fees already account quarter operating budget said
She also contending relentless manipulation social media says governmentfriendly sources spread false information Rappler These trolls focus Facebook Filipinos get news She called foreign agent troublemaker tax cheat traitor ugly
Last week two people Ms Ressa suspects working government managed slip Rapplers building broadcast video Facebook Live outside door urging protests social media attacks Among comments feed Hang Ressa Bomb Ressa Behead
Government officials said enjoying attention She Ms Ressa reported video Facebook She already provided company copious evidence way platform abused Mr Dutertes troll army This time Facebook responded blocking user posted video 30 days may popped Facebook Singapore though
Its catandmouse game Ms Ressa said Facebook haphazard enforcing rules While individual executives helpful Ms Ressa said shes hard time dealing Facebook responded slowly
Facebook worlds largest distributor news yet refused gatekeeper told recent onstage interview And allow lies actually get playing field facts taints entire public sphere At point said Facebook take lies
As noted Thursday night A lie told million times truth On social media though like billion times
Ms Ressa said wished tried stop online abuse sooner We ignored far long lesson I learned
She said would continue try work Facebook social media outlets Looking social media feed impossible since I cant defend I watch reputation dragged said Lately Ms Ressa said attacks Twitter worsened And I weirdly pummeled platform users calling Ms Ressa con artist since I posted I speaking
To try deal Ms Ressa said thinks lot Reinhold Niebuhrs Serenity Prayer I look stuff area control like making sure staff safe business able continue said weary sigh I dont want story
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram sign Opinion Today newsletter
Kara Swisher editor large technology news website Recode producer Recode Decode podcast Code Conference contributing opinion writer karaswisher Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Charlotte GrahamMcLay
WELLINGTON New Zealand In New Zealand members public accustomed seeing top government officials grocery store street unencumbered security guards common parts world
The countrys prime minister Jacinda Ardern even jokingly recounted Stephen Colbert The Late Show approached chatty strangers shopped maternity bras
But Thursday morning government minister attacked walking work alone capital city leading Ms Ardern warn New Zealanders unusual level access countrys lawmakers taken granted
We environment New Zealand politicians accessible thats something feel proud Ms Ardern said We serve people But todays events really show take granted
The victim James Shaw 45 coleader leftleaning Green Party minister climate change told police grabbed hit Thursday morning attack leaving black eye cuts face After treated scene went attend meeting Parliament admitting examination hospital remained Thursday afternoon
Pete Huggins Green Party spokesman said Mr Shaw told police assailant knew name although officers said whether believe attack planned motivated
The episode rattled New Zealand Mr Huggins described closeknit community open society
Unlike many countries including United States Britain prime minister lawmaker accompanied roundtheclock security personnel government ministers lawmakers Residents Wellington New Zealands capital regularly see elected officials walking cycling streets alone politicians opt take public transportation rather using government vehicles
I would hate see go Marama Davidson lawmaker leads Green Party Mr Shaw said news conference Thursday
It would shame lose way people approach us access us country added Thats one things I value way politics New Zealand
The police arrested charged 47yearold man attack Mr Shaw The man police identify appear Wellington District Court Friday
Lawmakers across political spectrum joined condemning attack Wellingtons mayor Justin Lester wrote social media assailants behavior outrageous New Zealanders lucky unparalleled access elected representatives
Members public also expressed shock One Twitter user branded attack Mr Shaw assault democracy Another said hoped attack awful one canary coal mine moment New Zealand
Bryce Edwards veteran New Zealand political commentator said downtoearth qualities commanded respect New Zealanders We like politicians one us us said
While clear whether attack politically motivated lawmakers took opportunity denounce said trend toward overthetop reactions people disagreed politicians
David Parker trade minister lawmaker centerleft Labour Party cited called extreme opinion feeding political biases causing instability people fed social media platforms
Ms Ardern stopped short saying security beefed lawmakers The episode took place innercity area Wellington minutes Ms Arderns residence
Violence New Zealand lawmakers rare The last one make global headlines recent years 2016 government minister Steven Joyce hit face sex toy thrown protester episode caused mirth fury


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur
SHANGHAI The Chinese electronics giant Huawei preparing sue United States government barring federal agencies using companys products according two people familiar matter
The lawsuit filed Eastern District Texas Huawei American headquarters according people requested anonymity discuss confidential plans The company plans announce suit week
The move could aimed forcing United States government make case Chinese equipment maker publicly It part broad push Huawei defend campaign led United States undermine company Washington sees security threat Executives spoken strongly Americas actions new marketing campaigns aimed mending companys image among consumers
For many years United States officials said Beijing could use Huaweis telecommunication equipment spy disrupt communication networks The company denied allegations major wireless carriers ATT Verizon effectively prevented using Huaweis equipment result
Over past year Washington ramped pressure firm preparing take major role construction nextgeneration wireless networks around world American officials urged governments ban use Huaweis products This year Justice Department filed criminal charges company chief financial officer connection evading American sanctions Iran
A hearing set begin week Canada determine whether companys finance chief Meng Wanzhou extradited United States face charges Ms Mengs lawyers sued Canadian government police arguing circumstances arrest detention December violated rights
Many Canadians see Ms Mengs case example foreign moneys influence Vancouver
The criminal case Ms Meng United States could complicated comments President Trump White House engaged trade negotiations China While criminal cases traditionally independent matters Mr Trump indicated Huaweis fate could bargaining chip
During meeting Oval Office delegation Chinese officials last month Mr Trump said Well making decision asked would drop criminal charges Huawei part trade deal He added Well talking attorney general
A lawsuit Huawei United States expected challenge section defense spending authorization law approved last year The provision blocks executive agencies using telecom equipment made Huawei another Chinese company ZTE
According one people familiar matter Huawei likely argue provision bill attainder legislative act singles person group punishment without trial The Constitution forbids Congress pass bills
Huaweis plans final It could still decide change course file lawsuit
The United States Embassy Beijing immediately respond request comment A call placed outside business hours United States Court House Plano Tex Huaweis American headquarters answered
China announced espionage accusations former Canadian diplomat Monday days Ms Mengs extradition hearing set take place
In many ways Huawei case echoes another company aroused security concerns United States Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab
Around two years ago American officials began expressing worries Moscow could use companys software gather intelligence The company denied allegations But September 2017 Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies begin removing companys products government systems Congress codified ban spending law
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits response arguing prohibition amounted bill attainder In May judge District Columbia dismissed suits ruling Congress motivated legitimate desire protect government computer networks Russian intrusion The judge also said Kasperskys sales American government small fraction companys business ban especially harsh
An appeals court upheld ruling months later Banning Kaspersky prophylactic punitive measure judge appeal David S Tatel wrote
Given insignificant probability Kasperskys products could compromised federal systems magnitude harm intrusion could wrought Congresss decision remove Kaspersky federal networks represents reasonable balanced response Judge Tatel wrote
Raymond Zhong reported Shanghai Paul Mozur Hong Kong Alan Rappeport contributed reporting Washington
Follow Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur Twitter zhonggg paulmozur




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Azam Ahmed Kirk Semple
MEXICO CITY Mexican officials carrying Trump administrations immigration agenda across wide stretches border undercutting Mexican governments promises defend migrants support search better life
The Mexican authorities blocking groups migrants border towns refusing allow onto international bridges apply asylum United States intercepting unaccompanied minors reach American soil helping manage lists asylum seekers behalf American authorities limit number people crossing border
Breaking decades asylum practice Mexican government also allowed Trump administration send 120 men women children Tijuana await decisions asylum applications United States The program could expanded border crossings soon next week
Officials inside administration Mexicos new president Andrés Manuel López Obrador called stance migrants strategic decision anger President Trump
He doesnt believe change Mr Trumps mind contend Furthermore officials say Mr López Obrador wanted jeopardize aspects deeply interconnected relationship two countries ranging elaborate regional trading arrangements information sharing border security transnational crime terrorism So avoided bruising potentially costly public fight issue
A lifelong defender poor Mr López Obrador often refers plans Mexico grand transformation placing ambitions nation par great leaders
He burnished everyman credentials cutting government salaries flying coach around country opening opulent presidential palace public He also vastly reduced number Central American migrants Mexico deports soil
But everything transformed
Exhibit A Migrant Protection Protocols Trump administrations policy require asylum seekers remain Mexican side border await decisions fate Rights groups contend dumps migrants increasingly violent Mexico impairs access legal counsel family support United States
Mr López Obradors administration came office saying would cooperate Mr Trumps antiimmigration agenda gone along several fronts including accepting women children despite earlier promises take adult male asylum seekers
The Mexican government argued policy requiring asylum seekers wait Mexico imposed United States consented humanitarian reasons
It also true Mr López Obrador giving Mr Trumps border demands rarely saying word American president daily press briefings carries little political cost home
Read latest edition Crossing Border limitedrun newsletter life United States Mexico meet Sign receive next issue inbox
To many Mexicans fate migrants secondary domestic concerns jobs security corruption Mr López Obrador retains 80 percent approval rating despite governments willingness take back migrants applying asylum United States
If accept handful people back Mexico thats really problem us even politically said one official authorized discuss internal deliberations What really want avoid public fight Trump
But effort avoid crossborder fight Mexican government chosen politics humanitarian ideals critics contend
Mexico continuing play role US thinks contain migrant influx period said Melissa Vertiz Hernández coordinates Working Group Immigration Policy network civil society rights groups Mexico
The delicate balance United States left Mexican government without clear consistent immigration policy Mexican states municipalities along border often position fending pressure American counterparts
In Mexican border city Reynosa instance almost one allowed cross bridge apply asylum neighboring McAllen Texas They typically blocked apprehended Mexican officials forcing migrants try luck towns
In city Piedras Negras officials rounded hundreds migrants arrived caravan recent weeks kept tight watch shelter limited access outsiders advocates say After public outcry center closed many bused cities towns along border
The mayor Ciudad Juárez meanwhile threatened sue neighboring governor shipping migrants town It become game political hot potato desperate Central Americans fleeing poverty violence caught middle
Elsewhere along border shelter officials say manage lists asylum applicants name nationality age documentation assist Mexican officials complying American border patrol mandates
The Mexican government resisting Mr Trump ways official Mr López Obradors government insisted Even acquiescing Trump administration Migrant Protection Protocols done strategically according official two others briefed plan
By allowing program start San Diego Tijuana Mexican officials argued legal challenges United States go federal courts Northern District California generally seen liberal This matters time many Americans focused beat Mr Trump 2020 elections particular leveraging MexicanAmerican vote
But many activists far confident legal challenge put end program
I think incredibly risky move said Stephanie Leutert director Mexico Security Initiative University Texas Austin I dont think put countrys foreign migratory policy hands civil society organization another country
On Feb 14 civil society organization American Civil Liberties Union several advocacy groups filed lawsuit challenging Trump administrations policy A decision temporary restraining order expected coming days
The lawsuit filed behalf 11 asylum seekers returned Mexico recent weeks accuses Trump administration violating federal international migration human rights laws
Advocates contend forcibly sending asylum seekers Tijuana Trump administration plunged unfamiliar dangerous environment lives may jeopardy
Killings Tijuana skyrocketed recent years turf war local drug market In 2018 city posted deadliest year record 2500 killings
The Trump administration first announced new policy December Jan 28 head Mexicos migration agency said Mexican government imposed restrictions enactment
But Mexican officials backed many initial restrictions including refusal accept women children Trump administration officials said plan expand program ports entry along border The López Obrador administration said little publicly changes
In Tijuana several returnees three single men single woman two mothers traveling three children described confusion dismay finding Mexico
I idea Im going survive said Yanira 34yearold migrant El Salvador feared pursued people said fleeing home country
Yanira said left El Salvador three children ages 8 11 12 local gang tried recruit middle child threatened violence unless agreed
When stepped onto Mexican soil led back across border American officials broke
I cried cried recalled
Mexican officials said provide shelter care returnees essentially leaving network community groups Tijuana elsewhere state Baja California
But shelter network extraordinary pressure almostcontinual arrival migrants traveling caravans pushed centers beyond capacity
Sister Salomé Limas social worker Instituto Madre Asunta migrant shelter Tijuana said currently housing 120 women children space designed 44
Among migrants several families seeking asylum United States returned recent weeks Trump policy
Sister Salomé said shelter house families first court date United States late March After sure
Whats going happen said We dont know
Paulina Villegas contributed reporting Mexico City
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday Want email Sign
In wake two fatal crashes involving 737 Max 8 airplane shared similarities Boeing finds prosecutors regulators inspecting development processes safety assessments
A grand jury Washington DC issued subpoena dated March 11 day Ethiopian Airlines crash seeking documents least one person involved development 737 Max jets WSJ reports
The Transportation Department inspector generals office also reportedly examining planes design certification second deadly crash
An investigation The Seattle Times found FAA delegated wide responsibility 737 Max safety assessment Boeing The resulting analysis included crucial flaws according investigation
And Bloomberg reports early seven years ago FAA employees warned Boeing much sway safety approvals new aircraft
Boeing said statement Sunday aircraft certification processes well established consistently produced safe aircraft designs It added 737 Max certification program followed FAAs standard certification process
The ridehailing company start road show IPO today New York City It wont short ambition Lyft hopes achieve valuation much 23 billion
In updated prospectus Lyft said hopes raise nearly 24 billion IPO That figure close 216 billion revenue generated last year
At high end proposed stock price 68 company would valued 23 billion That would make stakes held companys founders Logan Green John Zimmer worth hundreds millions dollars apiece The company expected price offering March 28 would trade Nasdaq next day
Lyft poised become one biggest market debuts tech company since Alibaba Groups IPO 2014 Until Uber goes public later year least
But IPO without controversy Its facing backlash investors arent happy dualclass stock structure Paul Singer head activist hedge fund Elliott Management one writing FT oped
Those insight daring found business deserve respect But sell vast majority company public allowed run forever without shareholder input Public ownership must mean public accountability
The two German lenders announced yesterday formally begin merger talks Now must convince critics combining good thing
Deutsche Bank said reviewing strategic options shoring profitability growth Christian Sewing firms CEO told employees I consistently stressed consolidation German European banking sector important topic us
The combined bank would one Europes biggest 2 trillion assets onefifth private customers Germany
Going public signals deal political backing Germanys finance minister argued country needs strong national champion compete foreign banks Here FTs list key decisionmakers deal
But opposition merger strong German unions criticized plan fearing tens thousands job cuts And Elisa Martinuzzi Bloomberg Opinion warns wouldnt fix bigger problems German banking system
The Trump administrations campaign prevent countries using Huawei equipment 5G wireless networks faltered Julian E Barnes Adam Satariano NYT write
American officials pressuring threatening nations shun Huawei The push rooted US concerns Chinese telecom companies significant security threat could help Beijing spy nations
But really working Britain Germany India United Arab Emirates signaled unlikely follow Americas lead
The US campaign criticized lack evidence American intelligence briefings reportedly failed clearly show Chinese government used Huawei steal information Read five experts two senators say whether threat Some European Asian officials also believe President Trump may fully support fight
American officials want find ways curb Huaweis rise Mr Barnes Mr Satariano write including possibly restricting American companies supplying Huawei key components needs build 5G networks across world
More Huawei built operating system smartphones computers used company longer use software developed Google Microsoft
The financial sector hasnt felt impact MeToo much industries But David Gelles NYT reports lawsuit asset manager TCW could change
Sara Tirschwell created distresseddebt fund TCW fired 2017 sued firm former boss Jess Ravich CEO David Lippman She claimed dismissal retaliation reporting sexual harassment claim Mr Ravich gender discrimination breach contract
Ms Tirschwell alleges Mr Ravich pressured sex several times tenure firm The first encounter made feel according lawsuit rejection would mean end Ravichs crucial support
TCW Mr Ravich Mr Lippman denied allegations I Saras biggest supporter TCW role decision fire Mr Ravich said
So far theres talk settlement Mr Gelles writes Days court rare movement rarer still Wall Street grievances typically dealt private wire transfer dealt
Despite delivering disappointing returns investors many CEOs saw compensation climb last year according WSJ
Median compensation 132 chief executives SP 500 companies reached 124 million 2018 117 million group 2017 WSJ calculates
Most CEOs received substantial raises median 64 percent even though December stockmarket swoon meant companies finished year posting sluggish shareholder returns
Markets pretty well companies well economy held Robin Ferracone executivepay consultant told WSJ
But also said boards may thinking forward economic slowdown adding They know theyre going bring blooms rose
The shooting mosque Christchurch New Zealand designed go viral internet What
The attack teased Twitter announced online message board 8chan broadcast live Facebook Kevin Roose NYT writes The footage replayed endlessly YouTube Twitter Reddit platforms scrambled take clips nearly fast new copies popped replace
Online extremism regular extremism steroids There offline equivalent experience algorithmically nudged toward strident version existing beliefs Mr Roose adds People become fluent culture online extremism make consume edgy memes cluster harden And one erupts
But telling terrorists trolls isnt easy tech companies Christopher Mims WSJ argues Knowing online extremists erupt act violence virtually impossible broadcasts sudden acts violence hard automatically block
More needs done We need understand address poisonous pipeline extremism emerged past several years whose ultimate effects impossible quantify clearly far big ignore Mr Roose writes Its going away particularly getting better
PGE reportedly close naming Bill Johnson outgoing head Tennessee Valley Authority next CEO
Google named Scott Beaumont head greater China Korea operations chief AsiaPacific team
Stuart Benson resigned CFO MoviePass
Princeville Capital venture capital firm invests climate technology recruited Leonardo DiCaprio adviser
Deals
Fidelity National Information Services agreed buy international payments processor Worldpay 34 billion The companies
Caesars Entertainment Eldorado Resorts reportedly early merger talks Reuters
Private equity firms like KKR CVC Capital Partners reportedly interested buying Bayers animalhealth division Bloomberg
PagerDuty popular startup alerts IT workers tech problems need fixing publicly filed IPO Business Insider
Politics policy
Investors eagerly await Treasury Departments rules investing taxadvantaged opportunity zones NYT
Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro monologue questioning Muslim lawmakers loyalty US President Trump unhappy move NYT
Cindy Yang former owner massage parlor busted prostitution ring come scrutiny political activities including donations presidents reelection campaign NYT
Brexit
Prime Minister Theresa May expected put Brexit deal third parliamentary vote week likely contingent gaining backing Democratic Unionist Party FT
Meanwhile Labour Party appears set support plan would seek public vote Mrs Mays deal approved lawmakers Reuters
Trade
The US China pushing meeting late April complete trade deal negotiators still grappling details NYT
The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska sued US Treasury Department sanctions placed last year CNBC
President Xi Jinping China starts series state visits Europe week bid bolster trade continent Bloomberg
Tech
Marc Andreessen Facebook board member reportedly met Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Chris Wylie 2016 If true would suggest understood extent companys harvesting Facebook data He denies claim Observer Business Insider
In related news academic behind Cambridge Analyticas data mining sued Facebook defamation NYT
Apple making billiondollar bet take Netflix Will work NYT
Tech investors including MeToo clauses startup deals FT
Breaking tech giants suddenly become populist concept San Francisco NYT Bloomberg
Best rest
In wake admissions scandal colleges rethinking athletic special admissions WSJ
The Fed likely say later week little appetite interest rate rises year WSJ
Why successful joint ventures turn sour Its often success breeds desire control venture sought avoid Economist
The European Central Bank unhappy EUs plans increasing supervision clearing houses FT
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Andrew Higgins Mujib Mashal
MOSCOW Thirty years last Soviet troops retreated Afghanistan Russia Tuesday reasserted player region hosting talks Taliban senior Afghan politicians aimed speeding exit another superpower time United States
The talks held Moscows President Hotel owned Kremlin offered clearer view Taliban see end 18year war In room dripping chandeliers 50 delegates many flowing robes Western suits ties nearly old sometimes violent rivals faced across large circular conference table
While Afghan politicians part delegation led former President Hamid Karzai spoke protecting hard gains past two decades Taliban denounced new Afghan Constitution lays system governance built enormous cost
The Taliban representatives also offered rare look see role women While barred women public life time power said believed womens rights including education work claim met skepticism women Afghanistan
The Moscow gathering included Taliban delegation led chief negotiator Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai represented significant contact senior Afghan politicians Taliban since United States toppled hardline Islamist group power end 2001
Absent talks however Americanbacked Afghan government President Ashraf Ghani strongly criticized meeting affront designed undermine offices authority Afghan state
Mr Ghani uncomfortable position odds American backers sees moving quickly reach deal also others countrys political elite rallying around Americanled effort
What agreeing Where implementing power Mr Ghani told Afghan channel ToloNews Tuesday dismissing talks They could hold hundred meetings Afghan government Afghan Parliament legal institutions Afghanistan approve agreements paper
The delegation headed Mr Karzai consisted entirely former officials representatives political parties many involved countrys bloody civil war current members Parliament There two women group
Afghans social media critical delegation questioning whether represented Afghanistan
Those meeting Moscow pushed aside said Khaled Abedy 31 works private company Kabul Afghan capital They want build business The country isnt important I think sort meeting cant help peace process
But Atta Muhammad Noor one Afghan politicians delegation Moscow said participants considered representative Afghanistan Mr Ghanis government
We fighting 40 years people influence Ghani said Mr Noor longtime governor Balkh Province Mr Ghani dismissed last year
Speaking sidelines event said foreign forces including around 14000 American troops must leave Afghanistan But cautioned withdrawn gradually avoid repeat chaos engulfed Afghanistan abrupt Soviet pullout 1989
The talks scheduled last two days opened week American diplomats Taliban representatives ended six days negotiations Doha capital Qatar Each side said negotiations made progress toward ending conflict began United States invaded Afghanistan 2001 long terror attacks Sept 11
Both sides said agreed principle framework two issues Taliban guarantee Afghan soil would never used terrorist groups like Al Qaeda pledge United States withdraw troops But many Afghans concerned Americans might eager strike deal
The organizer Moscow talks ostensibly Afghan diaspora Russia Russian government But Afghan officials Taliban members said Kremlin playing major role orchestrating meeting behind scenes
Russia chastened damage done Soviet Union occupation Afghanistan shown interest getting involved militarily least directly But positioned force reckoned relishing Washingtons agonies hands Taliban insurgents
Russia designated Taliban terrorist organization 2003 first strongly supported American efforts purge Afghanistan extremist Islamist groups President Vladimir V Putin described threat Russias security
But amid rising Cold Warstyle rivalry Moscow Washington Russia hedged bets opening channels Taliban Moscow allowed 10member delegation Taliban still officially barred terrorists enter Russia Moscow talks
On Tuesday Afghanistan violence continued unabated The Taliban attacked police army outposts around northern city Kunduz dawn killing least 23 members Afghan security forces In Takhar Province gunmen attacked womens radio station killing two staff members
Mr Karzai made appeal end bloodshed saying Afghan soldiers Taliban fighters buried next
All around graveyards regular Afghans graves plenty Mr Karzai said The dream every mother hope every father buried
Mr Karzai first installed Afghanistans leader United States late 2001 relationship soured He visited Russia often since leaving office 2014 meetings Mr Putin officials aligned Moscows view United States must leave Afghanistan Soviet Union
Mr Stanekzai Talibans chief negotiator said speech lasting half hour group seek monopolize power inside Afghanistan He said pursuing Islamist government consultation Afghans group recognize countrys current Constitution calling copied West
Perhaps revealing part speech came described Talibans view future role Afghan women When power group sent religious police patrol streets giving lashes women among things showing ankles
We committed rights given women Islam Mr Stanekzai said Islam given women fundamental rights trade ownership inheritance education work choice partner security education good life
Considering groups history Afghan women immediately questioned statements sincerity
But Fawzia Koofi female member Afghan Parliament one two women attendance said happy heard Taliban promise women would stripped rights would allowed serve prime minister though president
However cautioned We gained much last 18 years whatever problems want go back Taliban period
Andrew Higgins reported Moscow Mujib Mashal Kabul Afghanistan Najim Rahim contributed reporting MazariSharif Afghanistan Fahim Abed Fatima Faizi Kabul Taimoor Shah Kandahar Afghanistan




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Christine Hauser
It like online matchmaking service Horse lovers want adopt wild mustang western United States browse dozens headshots
From dropdown menus choose gender color age 4yearold chestnut mare example 9yearold gray gelding Some horses training others might gentled experience handled
This Wild Horses Online part federal Bureau Land Managements online adoption service Starting month bureau trying make wild mustang adoptions attractive paying 1000 take animals gathered public land western United States part efforts manage population
The adoption program began March 12 intended encourage potential owners take leap adopting wild horses whose access pasture water challenged factors including rising population droughts said Deborah Collins bureaus outreach officer
Ms Collins said government hoped people would take fresh look owning wild horse say I got little help I go find trainer
The program first incentive type Bureau Land Management offered since Wild FreeRoaming Horses Burros Act 1971 detailed agencys duties legal custodian wild horses burros United States
Previously people adopted wild mustang paying 125 Now paid 500 front receive 500 balance prove owned animal responsibly year Ms Collins said
Carrie Jim Pacileo Powell Wyo drove six hours March 15 adoption event Rock Springs The couple already adopted two mustangs one completely trained partly trained wanted
I told husband I wanted try train completely wild Ms Pacileo said
They came home two mustangs 9monthold Remmi 11monthold Stormy
Being younger thought maybe would easier Ms Pacileo said
She said money receive adopting horses would invested equipment hay production 40 acres
I wanted like ultimate symbol America said
More 66000 wild horses 15000 burros roam 26 million acres 10 states bureaus latest data shows The ideal level populations combined 26690 according bureau
The challenge bureau balance population animals available resources public private lands Some found rambling along highways foraging backyards discovered open range emaciated dying thirst Ms Collins said
The main method population control simply move From July February helicopters chase wild horses corrals facilities made available adoption sold adopted
Last year 11000 horses burros removed public lands nearly decade bureau figures show As last month 50000 horses available adoption corrals offrange pastures longterm Ms Collins said
Some bureaus measures attracted controversy use helicopters chase animals removal horses open range primary method population control Some worried wild horses could end slaughterhouses abroad
The American Wild Horse Campaign advocacy group said statement criticizing bureauss new adoption program agency employ population control measures fertility methods The BLM adopt way situation faces stockpiling 50000 horses holding facilities said Suzanne Roy groups executive director
Ms Collins said bureau tried fertility measures including sending volunteers administer birth control vaccinations mares wild But effects vaccinations last year 18 months results adequately addressed overpopulation said
The bureaus push make adoptions enticing focused training The agency working nonprofit Mustang Heritage Foundation started Extreme Mustang Makeover national competition trainers 100 days turn wild mustang wellbehaved steed
Wild mustangs also trained federal prisons rehabilitation programs coordinated bureau
The 1000 adoption payout costs bureau half would keep animal year Ms Collins said For owners mustangs cost less keep breeds thoroughbreds quarter horses said Mary Santagata adopts buys mustangs All Kings Horses rescue organization Northford Conn
Adopted mustangs current vaccinations Ms Santagata said annual veterinary care could cost 300 problems About 50 every eight 10 weeks goes toward hooves professionally trimmed Many owners feed mustangs hay similar diet open range rather expensive grain hay said
They hardy Ms Santagata said They built survive
Other costs include adapting corrals sixfoothigh paneled fencing wild horses escape providing opensided sheds enter need shelter easily led
The expensive part owning wild horse Ms Santagata said paying experienced trainers At 41 around horses life said could handle basic gentling wild mustang When horses corrals uses soft opening approaching retreating get accustomed
You walk around see reacts said I mustangs would look months
She gradually introduces halters led around able accomplish three months said For advanced skills like riding sends mustangs professionals grown know
I look like I adopting living legend Ms Santagata said They mystical creature wild lucky ones find




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Casey
BOGOTÁ Colombia Jorge Ramos news anchor television network Univision said detained Venezuelan government confrontational interview President Nicolás Maduro Monday evening Miraflores Palace Caracas
He didnt like things asking lack democracy Venezuela torture political prisoners Mr Ramos recounted Univision broadcast said released government
Mr Ramos said detained two hours let go allowed return hotel He said government confiscated crews equipment including phones memory cards
We dont anything said They interviews
On Monday night Kimberly Breier assistant secretary state Western Hemisphere State Department said Mr Ramos detained called government release immediately
The world watching wrote Twitter
Venezuelas government dispute account Mr Ramos temporarily held appeared lay blame anchor
We dont lend cheap shows said Jorge Rodríguez government communications minister
He added Hundreds journalists come received decent treatment always give journalistic work
Mr Ramos Mexicoborn American journalist known confrontational questions particularly leaders attacked press In 2015 tangled Donald J Trump presidential candidate news conference Mr Trump eventually guards force room
Go back Univision Mr Trump said
Univision largest Spanishlanguage television network United States
Mr Maduro recently stuck friendly interviews state television outlets
But since current crisis faces major challenge Venezuelas opposition whose leader Juan Guaidó also claims presidency Mr Maduro conducted number interviews international media outlets including BBC Eurovision ABC also conducted interview Monday
In ABC interview Mr Maduro defended criticism blocking aid shipments opposition White House demanded let pass Venezuelas borders Colombia Brazil
Everything United States government done doomed failure Mr Maduro said Theyre trying fabricate crisis justify political escalation military intervention Venezuela bring war South America
Mr Ramos said showing images children eating dumpster Mr Maduro common sight Venezuela president presided shortages food medicine
He got interview Mr Ramos said Immediately afterward one ministers Jorge Rodríguez came say interview wasnt authorized
Then Mr Ramos said detained
Later Monday night Mr Ramos writes column syndicated New York Times Licensing Group told Reuters crew would deported Tuesday


video

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Best Late Night
By Giovanni Russonello
Welcome Best Late Night rundown previous nights highlights lets sleep lets us get paid watch comedy If youre interested hearing The Times regularly great TV sign Watching newsletter get recommendations straight inbox
Stephen Colbert admitted hes happy see President Trump Congress apparently nearing border security deal would help avert government shutdown But said wished could press reset political conversation
Were supposed care whether Trump Nancy lost Trump caved Nancys dancing end zone said But nothing nothing happened government 2019 affected anyone Wheres infrastructure bill Wheres immigration bill Wheres fix health care We celebrating supposed celebrating theyre close deal achieve absolute minimum government
Colbert pointed reports preparations possible border wall already damaged butterfly habitats Texas He argued Trump ought sympathy insects
After hes got lot common butterflies Theyre fragile creatures bright iridescent coloring paperthin skin Its Trump never left larval stage STEPHEN COLBERT
Colbert also tweaked Democrats showed clip Representative Nita Lowey insisting lawmakers agreed fund partial barrier wall
Oh wall barrier A clinching legal argument first made landmark case Potato v Potato STEPHEN COLBERT
Jimmy Kimmel isnt excited recent news sequel film Frozen come fall
Just Baby Shark songs finally starting get heads theres new batch Frozen songs way For dont kids Frozen streetlegal drug children thats 10 times addictive Paw Patrol gummy worms combined In one Disney finally answer question What made bunch money JIMMY KIMMEL
Trevor Noah excited Howard Schultzs middleoftheroad potential candidacy He criticized Schultz former chief executive Starbucks saying CNN town hall doesnt see race
It would like How going solve black unemployment And guy would like What mean black unemployment All I see staggering unemployment among people named Jamal Anyway February happy History Month TREVOR NOAH
Tomorrow Valentines Day St Valentine course patron saint seasonal marketing STEPHEN COLBERT
Tomorrow Auntie Annes offering special heartshaped pretzels Its great deal hopeless romantics taking dates La Guardia JIMMY FALLON
Samantha Bee went bat ambitious Green New Deal plan Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez unveiled month
On Conan Kay Jewelers Tinder Collection featured bejeweled inscriptions Please Dont Murder Me Whats Your Last Name
Bradley Cooper director star A Star Is Born The Late Show Thursday With Oscars 10 days away anticipation probably hang air
Aubrey Plaza hosting Film Independent Spirit Awards month Shes diehard fan independent cinema looking forward bringing back intimate vibe awards show televised
Plus Ideas What Watch Tonight
The 50 Best Movies Netflix Right Now
The 25 Best Films 21st Century
The Best Movies Amazon Prime Video Right Now
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Declan Walsh
CAIRO President Omar Hassan alBashir Sudan imposed yearlong state emergency dissolved federal state governments Friday attempt end months nationwide street protests shaken authority three decades rule
In televised address broadcast live presidential palace Khartoum Mr alBashir declared state emergency disbanded federal government replaced state governors military generals
Mr alBashir also said pausing ending effort amend Sudans constitution could run third term office current one ends 2020
Reuters citing presidential statement reported Friday night Mr alBashir appointed caretaker administration leaving current defense foreign justice ministers place
In speech acknowledged economic hardship triggered first protests December said protest movement hijacked elements agendas achieve zero sum scenarios
Mr alBashir wanted International Criminal Court charges war crimes ruled Sudan iron fist decades immediate implications state emergency unclear It seemed signal hardening attitude toward protests led young professionals angered economic decay corruption become hallmarks Mr alBashirs rule
The demonstrations first began Dec 19 town Atbara focused soaring bread prices They quickly grew movement calling ouster president near daily protests spreading cities across country
The protesters come across Sudanese society including sections shrinking upper middle class withered countrys precipitous economic slide Soaring fuel prices caused factories close youth employment stands 27 percent according World Bank estimates
Our country passing difficult complicated phase national history Mr alBashir said speech Friday
He blamed external factors collapse protesters say stems decades kleptocratic incompetent rule Their frequent chant marches riot police arrive tear gas sometimes bullets Just fall
Protest leaders say 1000 people arrested crackdown led feared National Intelligence Security Service Internet access restricted effort block social media posts used mostly young protesters organize demonstrations
The government said 31 people died protestrelated violence Human Rights Watch put toll 51 people killed since midDecember
On Friday Mr alBashir stumbled several times read speech In attempt mollify protesters offered prayers killed announced plans economic reform new government yet fully formed He invited opposition move forward engage dialogue regarding current issues country
In recent years Mr alBashir fired marginalized potential rivals power little long rule suggests new willingness rapprochement
Mr alBashir came power military coup 1989 since Sudan endured famines American missile strikes isolation civil war led independence South Sudan 2011 Two years International Criminal Court ordered Mr alBashir arrested charges played essential role atrocities including murder rape torture displacement civilians conflict Darfur region Sudan
In 2017 United States lifted sanctions Sudan relief failed stem steep economic decline Mr alBashir lobbied State Department remove Sudan list state sponsors terrorism factor countrys economic woes
Before televised address Sudans intelligence chief Salah Abdallah Gosh told reporters Mr alBashir would announce resignation head ruling National Congress Party
But Mr alBashir said nothing speech party activists fear state emergency could presage even harsher measures movement
In immediate aftermath speech however demonstrators appeared undeterred Videos posted social media suggested protests rule continued Khartoum



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ceylan Yeginsu
Britains chancellor Exchequer Philip Hammond delivered statement countrys economy Wednesday something fiscal nonevent specter Britains withdrawal European Union Brexit hanging every economic projection
Mr Hammonds main message could deliver funds public spending British Parliament reaches deal Brexit came day lawmakers rejected Prime Minister Theresa Mays plan large margin
With Mrs May sitting behind Mr Hammond conspicuously called lawmakers put aside differences seek compromise Brexit something neither prime minister Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn yet accepted
Higher unemployment lower wages higher prices shops That British people voted June 2016 said referring 2016 referendum leave European Union
Here five takeaways chancellors spring statement
The uncertainty surrounding Brexit slowdown global economy cut growth 2019 12 percent 16 percent projected last years autumn budget
The British economy set grow 14 percent 2020 16 percent following two years according official forecasts independent Office Budget Responsibility
One bright spot wage growth revised upward least 3 percent year work force expanding 600000 2023 Mr Hammond said
With public sector borrowing trending Mr Hammond pledged increase Brexit dividend 266 billion pounds 35 billion comes catch British lawmakers would vote pronto leave European Union deal
In statement Office Budget Responsibility attributed improved fiscal climate higher income tax receipts lower expected interest costs
Once Mr Hammond hedged good news familiar caveat Parliament first agree deal Brexit
A smooth Brexit see deal dividend economic boost free resources schools police social care areas suffered significantly decade budget cuts conservative governments austerity policy
Analysts quick point government making promises time promised spending increases failed materialize
The repeated promise austerity coming end ring hollow millions low wage disabled unemployed people see social security tax credits frozen another year April Dr MaryAnn Stephenson director Womens Budget Group said Wednesday
The government fund free sanitary products secondary schools colleges England response concerns girls missing school afford buy products Mr Hammond said
The announcement comes twoyear campaign started Amika George 19 read reports schoolgirls northern city Leeds using newspaper socks toilet paper could afford sanitary products would sometimes miss school avoid embarrassment
Its definitely really huge number Ms George said phone interview This isnt small minority people affecting Its definitely prevalent something government needs take action
Knife crime rose fourth straight year 2018 hotbutton issue days To help address additional 100 million pounds 130 million made available police forces across England Wales help tackle knife crime risen fourth consecutive year
Police funding England Wales fell 19 percent 201011 201819 National Audit Office says
The extra funding spent additional overtime targeted knife crime new violent crime reduction units Mr Hammond said
The announcement falls short 200 300 million pounds 260 million 390 million requested National Police Chiefs Council last week




Advertisement
Sophisticated surveillance domain world powers increasingly available private market Smaller countries seizing tools sometimes darker purposes
NSO private company based Herzliya Israel hired former government hackers ply trades foreign governmentsCreditCreditCorinna Kern The New York Times
Supported
By Mark Mazzetti Adam Goldman Ronen Bergman Nicole Perlroth
The man charge Saudi Arabias ruthless campaign stifle dissent went searching ways spy people saw threats kingdom He knew go secretive Israeli company offering technology developed former intelligence operatives
It late 2017 Saud alQahtani top adviser Saudi Arabias powerful crown prince tracking Saudi dissidents around world part extensive surveillance efforts ultimately led killing journalist Jamal Khashoggi In messages exchanged employees company NSO Group Mr alQahtani spoke grand plans use surveillance tools throughout Middle East Europe like Turkey Qatar France Britain
The Saudi governments reliance firm Israel adversary decades offers glimpse new age digital warfare governed rules growing economy valued 12 billion spies hire
Today even smallest countries buy digital espionage services enabling conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping influence campaigns preserve major powers like United States Russia Corporations want scrutinize competitors secrets wealthy individual beef rival also command intelligence operations price akin purchasing offtheshelf elements National Security Agency Mossad
For stories changing nature warfare sign weekly At War newsletter
NSO competitor Emirati firm DarkMatter exemplify proliferation privatized spying A monthslong examination The New York Times based interviews current former hackers governments private companies others well review documents uncovered secret skirmishes burgeoning world digital combat
The firms enabled governments hack criminal elements like terrorist groups drug cartels also cases act darker impulses targeting activists journalists Hackers trained United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople human rights workers net Cybermercenaries working DarkMatter turned prosaic household item baby monitor spy device
The FBI investigating current former American employees DarkMatter possible cybercrimes according four people familiar investigation The inquiry intensified former NSA hacker working company grew concerned activities contacted FBI Reuters reported
NSO DarkMatter also compete fiercely paying handsomely lure top hacking talent Israel United States countries sometimes pilfering recruits The Times found
The Middle East epicenter new era privatized spying Besides DarkMatter NSO Black Cube private company run former Mossad Israeli military intelligence operatives gained notoriety Harvey Weinstein disgraced Hollywood mogul hired dig dirt accusers PsyGroup Israeli company specializing social media manipulation worked Russian oligarchs 2016 pitched Trump campaign plan build online army bots avatars swing Republican delegate votes
Last year wealthy American businessman Elliott Broidy sued government Qatar New York firm run former CIA officer Global Risk Advisors said sophisticated breach company led thousands emails spilling public Mr Broidy said operation motivated hardnosed geopolitics At beginning Trump administration pushed White House adopt antiQatar policies time firm poised receive hundreds millions dollars contracts United Arab Emirates archrival Qatar
A judge dismissed Mr Broidys lawsuit suspicions grown Qatar hand operations including hacking leaking emails Yousef alOtaiba influential Emirati ambassador Washington
The rapid expansion global hightech battleground armies cybermercenaries clash prompted warnings dangerous chaotic future
Even smallest country low budget offensive capability initiate online attacks adversaries said Robert Johnston founder cybersecurity firm Adlumin key investigator Russias 2016 hacking Democratic National Committee Qatar UAE going war getting bloody
The barriers entry space getting lower lower
Before NSO helped Saudi government track adversaries outside kingdom helped Mexican government hunt drug kingpins earned hundreds millions dollars working dozens countries six continents company consisted two high school friends northern Israel one relatively mundane idea
Using technology developed graduates Intelligence Unit 8200 Israels equivalent NSA Shalev Hulio Omri Lavie started company 2008 allowed cellphone firms gain remote access customers devices perform maintenance
Word spread Western spy services whose operatives spotted opportunity At time American European officials warning Apple Facebook Google tech giants developing technologies allowed criminals terrorists communicate encrypted channels indecipherable intelligence law enforcement agencies They called phenomenon going dark
Mr Hulio Mr Lavie offered way circumvent problem hacking end points communications phones data decrypted
By 2011 NSO developed first prototype mobile surveillance tool company called Pegasus Like namesake Greek mythological winged horse NSOs tool could something seemingly impossible collect vast amounts previously inaccessible data smartphones air without leaving trace including phone calls texts emails contacts location data transmitted apps like Facebook WhatsApp Skype
Once companies invade phone Youre carrying around Avi Rosen Kaymera Technologies Israeli cyberdefense company said NSO competitors
The company soon first client Pegasus government Mexico engaged crackdown drug cartels By 2013 NSO installed Pegasus three Mexican agencies according emails obtained The Times The emails estimated altogether firm sold Mexican government 15 million worth hardware software Mexico paying firm 77 million track wide array targets every move swipe phone
NSO products important Mexicos war cartels according four people familiar Mexican government used Pegasus speaking condition anonymity discuss intelligence matters Mexican officials credited Pegasus instrumental helping track capture El Chapo famed drug kingpin convicted last month New York sentenced life maximumsecurity prison
Soon enough NSO selling governments throughout world company claiming clients every continent except Antarctica NSO products particularly Pegasus helped break terrorist cells aided investigations organized crime child abduction European intelligence law enforcement officials said interviews
NSOs first client Mexican government also using hacking tools darker purposes part broader government industry surveillance effort The government used NSO products track least two dozen journalists government critics international investigators looking unsolved disappearance 43 students even backers soda tax according Times investigations research Citizen Lab part University Toronto
Those targets subjected stream harassing text messages contained malware Some messages warned spouses affairs others relative passed away In one case government officials able infiltrate phone journalist targeted 16yearold sons
Though NSO says sells services criminal antiterrorism investigations none Mexicans known targeted suspected criminal terrorism investigations
NSO technology helped stop vicious crimes deadly terrorist attacks around world company said statement We tolerate misuse products regularly vet review contracts ensure used anything prevention investigation terrorism crime
The company established ethics committee decides whether sell spyware countries based human rights records reported global organizations like World Banks human capital index indicators NSO would sell Turkey example poor record human rights current former employees said
But World Bank index Turkey ranks higher Mexico Saudi Arabia NSO clients A spokesman Israels Ministry Defense needs authorize contract NSO wins foreign government declined answer questions company
A lawsuit alleged last year months death Saudi Arabia used NSO products spy Mr Khashoggi Washington Post columnist strangled dismembered October Saudi operatives inside kingdoms consulate Istanbul NSO denies accusation Several Mr Khashoggis closest contacts targets NSO hacking tools Citizen Lab reported Without access Mr Khashoggis devices researchers confirmed whether direct target NSO surveillance
Even cases blatant abuse NSO continued renew contracts government clients In 2013 instance NSO inked first deal United Arab Emirates Within year Emirati government caught installing NSO spyware mobile phone Ahmed Mansoor prominent human rights activist
After receiving onslaught text messages containing links Mr Mansoor frequent target Emirati surveillance grew suspicious passed texts security researchers determined links NSO lures exploited vulnerabilities Apple software take Mr Mansoors phone It researchers said sophisticated spyware ever uncovered mobile device
The discovery forced Apple release emergency patch But Mr Mansoor already fired job passport confiscated car stolen email hacked location tracked bank account emptied 140000 beaten strangers twice week
You start believe every move watched Your family starts panic said interview arrested 2017 I live
Even UAE caught spying Mr Mansoor leaked invoices showed NSO continued sell Emiratis millions dollars worth spyware services As Mr Mansoor sentenced 10 years prison damaging national unity held solitary confinement health deteriorating
A flurry news reports followed countries using NSO products spy citizens prompting company temporarily rebrand Q James Bonds gadget guru
Despite bad news coverage NSOs value continued skyrocket
Francisco Partners private equity firm purchased 70 percent stake NSO 130 million 2013 Last month NSOs cofounders raised enough money buy back majority stake NSO valuation 1 billion The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed deal making major investors including Oregon state employees pension fund Alaskas sovereign wealth fund part owners NSO according public records
The proliferation companies trying replicate NSOs success compete estimated 12 billion market socalled lawful intercept spyware set fierce competition hire American Israeli Russian veterans worlds sophisticated intelligence agencies companies poach talent one another
In late 2017 NSO executives grew concerned spate resignations Private detectives hired investigate soon found Mediterranean island Cyprus tailing group former NSO employees veterans Israels Intelligence Unit 8200 going back forth work research facility
The building owned company affiliated DarkMatter Emirati firm quietly hired Israelis develop technologies UAE conduct cyberoperations perceived enemies home abroad
DarkMatter also offices inside gleaming tower highway connecting Abu Dhabi Dubai building houses UAEs Signals Intelligence Agency Emirates version NSA
This accident DarkMatter effectively arm state worked directly Emirati intelligence operatives numerous missions hacking government ministries Turkey Qatar Iran spying dissidents inside Emirates
DarkMatter origins another company American firm called CyberPoint years ago contracts UAE help protect Emirates computer attacks CyberPoint obtained license American government work Emiratis necessary step intended regulate export military intelligence services Many companys employees worked highly classified projects NSA American intelligence agencies
But Emiratis outsize ambitions repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees exceed boundaries companys American license CyberPoint rebuffed requests Emirati intelligence operatives try crack encryption codes hack websites housed American servers operations would run afoul American law
So 2015 Emiratis founded DarkMatter forming company bound United States law lured least halfdozen American employees CyberPoint join Marc Baier former official NSA unit carries advanced offensive cyberoperations became one firms top executives
DarkMatter employed several former NSA CIA officers according roster employees obtained The Times making salaries hundreds thousands dollars year
The assumption used left NSA youd never kind offensive work Now clearly market said Mr Johnston security expert He worked militarys Cyber Command works closely NSA serving Marines
The NSA consider responsibility ensure hacking techniques taught employees used United States said
The company respond request comment spokesman Emirati government Asked whether ministry given license former Israeli intelligence operatives working DarkMatter spokesman Israeli Ministry Defense declined comment A lawyer Mr Baier also declined comment
Current former employees spy agency lifelong obligation protect United States secrets said Greg Julian spokesman NSA They also required report employment representation foreign governments two years leave agency said
Besides breaches foreign government ministries DarkMatter also broke Gmail Yahoo Hotmail accounts according former employees DarkMatter operatives posed family friends people targeted lure opening emails contained malware
Former employees said DarkMatter targeted Mr Mansoor hacking childs baby monitor eavesdrop family In another operation companys operatives pursued Rori Donaghy British activist critical Emirati government human rights record also target NSO spyware DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab Canadian research organization former employee said
DarkMatter told employees spying American citizens would limits proved empty pledge
In one operation previously reported DarkMatter subsidiary began expansive effort intercept cellular communications Qatar occasionally catching communications Americans surveillance net late 2015 One American working project said raised concerns superiors including former CIA officer charge effort The American along another pulled project asked sign nondisclosure agreement
In repeated instances DarkMatter collected information Americans second former employee said Most cases involved Americans worked foreign organizations including human rights groups DarkMatter targeted critical Emirati government former employee said
DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information applications résumés belonging Americans applied work organizations One former employee said collection accidental records expunged companys databases
In 2017 former NSA hacker began providing FBI agents information companys activities according Reuters report Foreign Policy first reported FBI investigation
The informant Lori Stroud said become concerned companys surveillance Americans She later left firm along several Americans could sure DarkMatter deliberately targeting citizens Soon FBI agents began stopping American employees airports entered United States questioned DarkMatters operations according former company employees
The Justice Departments case run prosecutors Washington focuses internet fraud possibly illegal transfer spying technology foreign country
But prosecutors face headwinds including diplomatic concerns jeopardizing United States relationship UAE influential country developed close ties Trump administration worries pursuing case could expose embarrassing details extent cooperation DarkMatter American intelligence agencies
And reality American laws governing new age digital warfare murky outdated illequipped address rapid technological advances The rules governing American intelligence military personnel provide foreign governments meant keep leash 20thcentury warfare selling missiles planes overseas training foreign forces Army tactics
But address hacking skills honed front laptop worlds advanced intelligence agencies sold highest bidder
The worst part weapons easier get said Brian Bartholomew principal security researcher Kaspersky Lab digital security company
Youve got lot people entering arena new dont play rules said Its like putting militarygrade weapon hands someone street
An earlier version article misattributed source valuation market socalled lawful intercept spyware The 12 billion market estimate cited Moodys originated company NSO Moodys
Scott Shane contributed reporting




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ashley Powers
One day 2015 Barbara Lavenders husband returned UFO conference handed business card It bore red theatercurtain background vintage microphone goldandwhite lettering read Sean David Morton Radio Host Public Speaker Author Director Screen Writer Actor The polymathic Mr Morton Jeff Lavender told wife UFO royalty
Mr Morton spent years whisking ETobsessed tourists Area 51 99 pop leveraged following stints weehours conspiracy show Coast Coast AM one point nations No 3 talkradio program He dabbled fringe arts remote viewing psychic predictions earthquakes elections stock market But time Mr Lavender saw talk Southern California Mr Morton shifted something truly fantastical instant debt relief
Hed peddling workshop called The Sovereign Factor The Revolution Starts With You nod known sovereign citizens movement A loose network perhaps tens thousands farright antigovernment extremists sovereigns share certain conspiratorial beliefs sometimes desire profit government whose legitimacy deny
Do realize read Mr Mortons workshop description ALL considered Incompetent Wards State Residents Chattel Property US Federal government declare Emancipation Learn secrets get government back life One secrets called bond process By submitting right set papers Mr Morton said could wipe mortgage tax bills student loans
Mr Mortons message appeal beyond tinfoilhat crowd In America Great Recession plenty people upsidedown mortgages student debt inclined believe anyone offering help Ms Lavender listening husband recap workshop intrigued Years earlier shed borrowed 48000 help son attend college She husband worked mortgage industry Southern California decades educational debt unfamiliar terrain I never gone college told recently I took loan I shouldnt Ms Lavender lost job deferred payments interest kept piling By time held Mr Mortons business card hands owed 70000
She realized UFO gathering unusual venue debtrelief advice Her husbands annual gettogethers XFiles crowd hobby goodnatured punch line family But size intractability loan balance weighed also trusted husband thought Mr Mortons bond process worth checking She told I think probably enticed might little tiny kick pants government
As Lavenders came discover sovereign fraudsters snakeoil salesmen time Peddling bouquet grifts varied tax fraud real estate scams prey suspicion institutions financial illiteracy greed despair You dont even buy sovereign dogma get swindled You need Ms Lavender debt From 1990 2013 farright extremists carried 600 financial schemes resulted criminal charges according researchers run US Extremist Financial Crime Database affiliated National Consortium Study Terrorism Responses Terrorism clearinghouse kind
That adds conservatively public losses 1 billion The majority perpetrators either sovereigns ideological cousins tax defiers Fraud crossburning white supremacists expression belief
Sovereigns sometimes call freemen state citizens foundational document broadly subscribe alternate version American history The tale vary sovereign sovereign goes roughly like At point corporation secretly usurped United States government went bankrupt sought aid international bankers As collateral corporation offered financiers us As sovereigns tell birth certificate Social Security card benign documents contracts enslave
There believe pathway freedom Renounce contracts otherwise assert sovereignty Mr Morton said told Social Security Administration I dont want number Then one taxman police tell Not sovereigns con men belief system lends deceit You might declare diplomat nonexistent country Mr Morton represented Republic New Lemuria Dominion Melchizedek Or start fake Native American tribe Or blow court case American flag courtroom gold fringe Some sovereigns even lashed violently law enforcement officers theyre considered domestic terrorism threat
Many sovereign myths hark back creation 1913 Federal Reserve It weird complicated instrument controlling monetary system People saw sinister author J M Berger told In recent paper Mr Berger traced circulation ideas part company named Omni Publications something like Infowars middle 20th century One Omni title The Federal Reserve Conspiracy claimed enemy aliens infiltrated banking system biographies could found Whos Who American Jewry Sovereign lore often rooted antiSemitism By 1970s intellectual father sovereign citizen movement William Potter Gale helped spread type falsehood larger audience
The founder antigovernment group Posse Comitatus Mr Gale aligned emerging movement tax protesters argued instance paying taxes form involuntary servitude In turn introduced warped version America patriots establish legal system hang defy Mr Gales specific gift wrapping nonsense enough legalese sounded real If movement offers essentially lot magic words say get trouble thats going really appeal people desperate angry Mr Berger said Mr Gales outreach success Over time line thousands tax protesters Posse members blurred
Take redemption theory popularized part Gale associate Remember corporationslashfakegovernment used us collateral According sovereign lore means government set secret accounts names Some believe contain oddly specific amount 630000 To clear pure fantasy according Internal Revenue Service
One way sovereigns try make imaginary money real abusing legitimate IRS forms Lawabiding taxpayers use Form 1099OID example report original issue discount income But sovereigns write fake OID income fake withholding order claim illegitimate refunds If file return risk least large fine Yet 2012 2014 according Treasury Inspector General Tax Administration IRS received close 7000 sham OID filings
Chronically underfunded understaffed IRS investigators refer two dozen sovereignscam cases average prosecution year The agency sometimes misses returns raise suspicion For example 2016 IRS discovered sizable redemption scheme processing 207 bogus returns disbursing 43 million Thats another reason strange theories persist begun leach sovereign network general population Sometimes improbably work
Mr Morton born 1958 comfortable childhood Northern California tutorial make sales pitch His mother Maureen Kennedy Salaman San Francisco magazine described millionaire evangelical alternativemedicine fanatic promoted questionable cancer treatments
She also member John Birch Society farright group known paranoid anticommunism stockpiled beans grains ammunition case Russian invasion In 1984 chosen vicepresidential nominee Populist Party favorite white supremacists Its presidential candidate following cycle former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke In acceptance speech warned crowd Were evil powerful conspiracy world ever known
When Mr Morton reached adulthood sold unorthodox beliefs behind suburbandad veneer flop dark hair round cleanshaven face buttondownandkhakis wardrobe He charismatic also childlike friends said ego easily bruised He branded investigative reporter within UFO world 1990s Mr Morton appeared The Montel Williams Show made outrageous claims 100 alien species visited Earth certainty Nobel laureate I got close enough one things floating around desert actually get face burned said
Even UFO enthusiasts considered kook Mr Mortons fans didnt care The truth Sean David Morton Branding prophet plumbed newage convention circuit alongside specialists animal telepathy chakras hauntings angelic gemstone messages afterlife Near end millennium convention Las Vegas blueeyed reddishhaired woman approached Back Utah Melissa Thomson grown Mormon home married 22 worked banking spare time doted pedigreed cats even serving treasurer local Cat Fanciers group The Coast Coast program escape spent hours fangirling Mr Morton frequent guest
At Las Vegas convention Ms Thomson apparently one goal meet idol It love first sight Mr Morton said She soon left husband joined Mr Morton Southern California Her oldest brother Robert told The found warned Melissa decent person But promised movie roles theyll inherit Mommys home Atherton condo Tahoe All could see dollars When got married family refused attend
Through lawyer Ms Morton declined comment Mr Morton respond multiple requests comment although said YouTube last fall The New York Times conducting massive smear campaign Unless otherwise noted quotes article court records
The Mortons lived Hermosa Beach surf spot 20 miles downtown Los Angeles Next minipalaces oatmealcolored apartment building resembled servants quarters short stroll Pacific Ocean Mr Morton welcomed new wifes bushytailed Norwegian forest cats new litter arrived dozen scampered around apartment turn oversaw administrative side Sean David Morton He shilled conspiracy fiction The Dark Prophet Veil AntiChrist CDs Everything You Wanted Know About Future Vol 2 65 newsletter thousands subscribers TOMORROWS HEADLINES TODAY
Either wasnt particularly lucrative wasnt lucrative enough replicate Mr Mortons childhood wealth From outside hard tell He always asking try help something could raise money said Susan Shumsky fellow fixture newage circuit Like Lets trip Peru I money Lets teleseminar I make money Ms Mortons pedigreed kittens sold hundreds dollars apparently kept solvent At various points also dogwalked worked Disneyland Their friend Will Chappell said It leading charge leading family She necessary accomplish goals
Early relationship website called UFO Watchdog Exposing Parasites Delusional Personalities Morons Frauds Currently Clouding UFO Issue dismantled much Mr Mortons official biography Mr Morton sued case dismissed But email included case file Ms Morton waved findings I would concerned Sean DIDNT critics Some greatest people history people attacking every step It means Sean something right trying make difference world
By 2006 couple expecting windfall Ms Salaman poor health died Mr Morton assumed hed inherit mothers fortune But relationship already frosty iced final weeks Ms Salaman didnt even want son wife visit She cut even kept 100000 trust Great Dane Duke
They went berserk Ms Mortons brother recalled Its scam scam scam
While sovereign citizen movement inherently organized members firmament become known gurus vectors spreading ideology Mr Morton often lectured Living Temple new age shop south Hermosa Beach The owner favored black Tshirt five flying saucers admonition KEEP LOOKING UP yoga music ommed clutter apothecary bottles bags herbal something miraclecleanse guidebooks cropcircle DVDs
One day likely 2008 man named Brandon Adams started showing Like Mr Morton budding sovereign amplifier much younger untucked buttondowns looked like attempt playing dressup His family ran local taxprep business His whole thing banks Mr Morton said later What considered great criminal conspiracy Internal Revenue Service banking cartels Mr Morton quickly got speaking slot
Some Mr Adamss talks recorded Pacing front dozen people scribbling phrases stick figures whiteboard wove dark tale The secret bankruptcy The peopleascollateral Then twist The banks skimming money fractionalizing every transaction make He told group could reclaim funds via Form 1099OID
From folding chair Mr Morton looking grayer rounder Montel Williams days asked Mr Adams anyone really gotten big refund way Yes Mr Adams said The funny thing watch quiet people start get theyre sure process start getting returns Laughter Theyve got mentality Im going say I got two hundred fifty grand
The audience lapped This America financial crisis The banks bailed homeowners era Tea Party rallies Occupy Wall Street encampments imminent It wasnt much leap suspect Washington cahoots likes JP Morgan Mr Adamss Living Temple talks drew large enough crowds moved bigger venue sold private coaching 200 hour It became movement really Mr Morton said Mr Adams respond multiple requests comment
In spring 2009 Mr Adamss tutelage Mortons tried OID scheme Mr Morton filed four years returns 2005 2008 claimed nearly 4 million refunds His wife filed 2007 return claimed 12000 I never ever ever thought I breaking law Mr Morton later said I thought law His faith bolstered April got refund one returns direct deposit Washington Mutual account 48032255
In 2010 Securities Exchange Commission went Mortons different scheme one connection sovereign ideology Mr Morton used unconventional celebrity years earlier begin investment club would channel psychic powers predicting foreign currency markets Its risky type trading Mr Morton bragged forecasts accurate even Henry Paulson Treasury secretary relied
After hearing Mr Morton promote fund Coast Coast man Washington State invested 217000 An elderly New York woman parted 20000 Hes promising stars recalled Tim Saunders Alaska electrician poured life savings 135000 Yeah greed came I felt I needed quickly In 100 people invested 6 million Mr Morton sank half foreigncurrency trading nearly lost At least 240000 funneled nonprofit Mortons set authorities dont know rest In 2013 SEC 115 million judgment Ms Morton relief defendant meaning accused profiting scheme
The Mortons filed bankruptcy repeatedly misled government instance claimed bank accounts A court eventually denied discharge meaning couldnt get rid debt They also tossed beachadjacent apartment Bottom line Ms Morton told bankruptcy trustee one day I want able get decent job nice place live pay taxes life back
It around time Mortons turned hawking debterasing sovereign scheme known bond process Over two years helped people around country send nearly two dozen fake bonds IRS Quicken Loans PennyMac Bank America Chase Bank treasurers office Contra Costa County California Early 2015 Barbara Lavender woman whose husband met Mr Morton UFO conference gave call
Ms Lavender 61 frontdesk clerk adult school When I met last year Hemet Calif nearly 90 parched miles east Los Angeles ranchstyle home trimmed red Christmas lights We chatted kitchen table 14yearold dog Remy curled feet She explained spoke Mr Morton phone avoided talking sovereign ideology Instead said could purchase portion bond held almost magically make educational loan disappear
To wipe 70000 balance suggested Ms Lavender send 2500 less 4 percent owed She husband believed Mr Morton discovered sort workaround rich people find You know testified later You hear time wealthy tax loopholes kind thing
The bond looked authentically bureaucratic formal scalloped border It really certificate paper Office Depot The accompanying paperwork said student loan company entitled paid back fund reality United States taps help stabilize foreign currencies Mr Morton said warned Ms Lavender Look I dont know going work Im lawyer He added Its going depend whether accept
A month Mortons mailed bond package Ms Lavender checked educational loan balance saw hadnt budged wrote Ms Morton email She didnt get response Ms Lavender sent followup followup This beginning feel increasingly like scam wrote October bilked hardearned money spare
Ms Morton finally replied said shed recovering knee surgery Ms Lavender sent almost apologetic response Her attention elsewhere husband died suddenly brain mass Once hear Sean let know thinks next wrote With husband gone debt even greater burden main breadwinner
Nothing came exchange That winter two men jackets showed Ms Lavenders home questioned Mortons bond process outcome Afterward Ms Lavender took one business cards nephew works local sheriffs office Yes reassured They really IRS
On Jan 31 2016 nearly 200foottall whiteandblue cruise ship called Ruby Princess docked Port Los Angeles About 100 guests board paid 3000 marketed ConspiraSea Cruise weeklong jaunt Mexican waters American paranoia Vaccinations Do You Really Know Whats Coming Through That Needle Conspiracy Steal Your Body Soul As Mortons prepared disembark arrested federal agents
After years digging IRS investigators Mortons faced suite charges related tax filings fake bonds Once Ruby Princess Mr Morton led workshop called From Fascism Freedom separated patted asked medications took Mr Morton said ask Melissa An agent Cyanide said seething On way jail added Do favor tell Sean Thank Ill see next life
Their trial began Tax Day 2017 The prosecution told simple story greed I submit IRS slot machine one prosecutor Valerie Makarewicz said Keep hitting spin Keep playing hit jackpot The day Mortons got 48032255 refund said went bank drained nearly account Once IRS realized mistake tried recoup money Mortons filed two rounds bogus returns set fake bonds
Ms Mortons lawyer presented goodfaith defense She thrall sovereign gurus said people kind strutted back forth stage answer everything He showed jury 37 pages perfectcursive notes Ms Morton took Brandon Adams lecture In courtroom obviously nonsense But time people believed Melissa Morton believed
Mr Morton represented Im rapist thug war criminal said opening statement I didnt run Nazi concentration camp murder millions children
Serving lawyer also meant crossexamined witnesses Are familiar bankruptcy United States 1933 asked governments fraud expert It reference sovereign conspiracy theory
No witness said Im
During closing argument trials fourth day Mr Morton told jury Norwegian forest cats Earlier week said wife tried save premature kitten They stayed late swaddled cloth fed milk eye dropper The kitten died anyway Ask implored jurors Do send nice people care kittens raise cats jail forever The panel deliberated two hours When returned Ms Morton greeted hopeful smile The verdict guilty counts She fainted
Around time prominent sovereigns facing reckoning A court permanently barred Mr Adams preparing tax returns promoting OID scheme ended prison peddling fake money orders Another guru ConspiraSea Cruise named Winston Shrout workshop Conspiracy Court System awaiting trial Oregon
Mr Mortons sentencing set June But 11 hearing started didnt show
Agents spotted afternoon outside Dominos Hermosa Beach gray hood sunglasses shrouding much face He hopped white Ford Escape headed south The next morning tweeted plea donations Melissa cats need help relocating
Two months passed Mr Morton resurfaced via video friends online talk show Project Camelot Getting Truth Out One Whistleblower Time His hair mussed hed startled awake wore headset black Vneck darkrimmed glasses took
His version hello ripping judge prosecutors biggest gang criminals youre ever going see Soon turned attention impending solar eclipse This one biggest turning points American history said The video clocked 40000 views It vintage Sean David Morton say impossible tell anything believed
I asked Will Chappell known Mortons decade whether actual sovereign dogmatists He said She definitely believed story Sean telling I believe Sean believed story telling A little bit I believed And convictions Melissa course knowing knew would gone long time ago I think Sean would still done He still thinks missed step
The solar eclipse took place August week Mr Mortons onthelam interview Though Ms Morton promised court would contact fugitive husband couple rendezvoused hotel outside Palm Springs That morning moon briefly blotted sun Mr Morton lounging poolside swim trunks purple mountains arrayed eclipse glasses side An IRS agent walked It
At sentencing Ms Morton distanced I living embodiment love blind wrote judge If I ever questioned teachings processes others I told I question others far smarter I There thousands attendees workshops seminars It convincing wellorganized believable How could thousands people wrong She sentenced two years prison filed appeal Behind bars passed time taking classes résuméwriting watercolorpainting embroidery watching Food Network recently transferred halfway house Emails posted Project Camelot site suggest husband still touch
Mr Morton sentenced six years prison Hes representing appeal court papers argued hed improperly profiled terrorist sovereign citizen On Project Camelot hes unrepentant even sharing pardon request said sent President Trump
Its work RADIO TV INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM DEEP STATE forces within DOJ put wife I prison YEARS wrote Of course suggestion correct injustice donate PayPal account
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raphael Minder
MADRID The simmering conflict Catalan independence roared back center Spanish attention Tuesday 12 people went trial roles botched secession attempt 2017 Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez scrambled keep issue toppling government
The eagerly anticipated trial Spanish Supreme Court Madrid drawn enormous attention broadcast live national television could soon overshadowed political crisis unfolding blocks away Parliament
On Wednesday Mr Sánchezs minority Socialist government faces crucial parliamentary vote national budget If majority lawmakers reject including Catalan lawmakers far backed prime minister almost certainly forced call elections
With Spains government hanging balance Supreme Court intense pressure demonstrate remain impartial politics case ignited passions recriminations The Catalan separatist leaders indicted charges include rebellion holding independence referendum declaring independence October 2017 moves Spanish courts ruled unconstitutional
The secessionist conflict split Catalan society also helped reshape Spains politics Mr Sánchez came office unexpectedly June winning vote noconfidence previous conservative government backing Basque Catalan nationalist lawmakers
To stay office needs maintain support separatist parties governed Catalonia wealthy northeastern region Spain since 2015 But Quim Torra leader regional government insisted party would back national budget unless Mr Sánchez agreed consider another independence referendum prime minister refused
On Tuesday María Jesús Montero Spains budget minister told lawmakers trial conflict Catalonia polarized debate budget insisted government cede blackmail separatist lawmakers
We always betting political dialogue within constitutional framework make clear framework nothing outside constitutional order said
Mr Sánchezs attempt renew political dialogue separatists recently labeled treason leader Spains conservative party Pablo Casado
Almost every aspect criminal case subject intense political feuding location trial Madrid rather Barcelona decision Spains judiciary deny bail defendants keep prison since late 2017
The defendants supporters see conditions reinforcing independence movements complaints oppressive central government Opponents secessionism hand hope prison sentences Catalan leaders deter illegal attempts break Spain
Within main chamber frescoed Supreme Court building built 18th century panel seven justices 12 defendants listened opening arguments Tuesday Oriol Junqueras former deputy leader Catalonia occupied frontbench
Andreu Van den Eynde lawyer Mr Junqueras opened proceedings cast case matter free expression right protest right vote
We make political defense defend human values rights Mr Van den Eynde said The defendants argued already faced legal proceeding every constitutional right restricted
A handful indicted politicians missing trial however including Carles Puigdemont former leader Catalonia fled Brussels successfully resisted Spains attempts extradite
Outside Supreme Court building television crews heavy police surveillance jostled space 600 journalists accredited cover trial
In surrounding streets protesters carried Spanish flags denounced Mr Sánchez handling Catalan conflict called ouster small echo antigovernment demonstration drew tens thousands people Sunday
I rely judges politicians havent done put end attempt destroy Spain said Santiago Pulido house painter held sign drawing two defendants devils horns
Some defendants face 25 years prison found guilty sentences much heavier Mr Pulido said They responsible dividing Spanish people making people fight within country I think serious crime
The trial expected last least three months But budgetary defeat Wednesday could force Mr Sánchez call elections summer means could take place verdicts made public
Opposition politicians want Mr Sánchez hold general election May 26 Spain already hold municipal regional elections well votes European Parliament
Speaking outside courtroom Mr Van den Eynde defense lawyer said trial views already politicized could influenced snap election
Were trying stay focused trial said know politics change everything change



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Paul Mozur Austin Ramzy
HONG KONG The Chinese electronics giant Huawei sued United States government Wednesday arguing unfairly incorrectly banned security threat
The lawsuit force government make case company public could also leave Huawei vulnerable deeper scrutiny business practices relationship Chinese government
The United States argued Huawei poses risk equipment could used Chinese authorities spy communications disrupt telecommunications networks That position led major wireless carriers United States avoid Huaweis equipment
Huawei denies allegations says lawsuit meant prove engage practices The companys plans file lawsuit first reported Monday The New York Times
The US Congress repeatedly failed produce evidence support restrictions Huawei products Guo Ping Huaweis rotating chairman said statement announcing filing lawsuit We compelled take legal action proper last resort
The lawsuit filed United States District Court Plano Tex Huawei American headquarters argues part 2019 National Defense Authorization Act unconstitutional singles Huawei The act bans government agencies contracting Huawei companies use companys equipment
Huawei Chinas biggest maker telecommunications equipment pressure months United States authorities Now striking back The suit part markedly aggressive legal public relations offensive Huawei recently mounted push back spying accusations
During news briefing broadcast official Huawei feed Twitter Mr Guo pulled punches
The US government long branded Huawei threat hacked service stolen emails source code said referring National Security Agency documents provided former contractor Edward J Snowden showed agency pried way Huaweis systems
Still US government sparing effort smear company mislead public Huawei added The briefing streamed Twitter American internet platform blocked China reached two million people
In December Meng Wanzhou daughter Huaweis founder chief financial officer company detained Canada behest United States seeking extradite
Her father Ren Zhengfei companys founder since rejected claims daughter said would wait see President Trump would intervene case Ms Meng court week Vancouver British Columbia part extradition hearing
In meantime Huawei battled many customers nations said would pull back buying products China also retaliated Canada detaining several Canadian citizens This week Canadian officials also complained China begun suspend import canola country
Lu Kang spokesman Chinas Ministry Foreign Affairs said Thursday Chinese decision based discovery pests Canadian canola
China long history interrupting trade countries middle diplomatic spats In September 2010 China halted export rare earth metals Japan two months dispute sovereignty cluster tiny islands Japan Taiwan Weeks later China suspended trade talks Norway halted import Norwegian salmon Nobel Peace Prize awarded Chinese dissident Norwegian committee
Huaweis lawsuit argues singling company Congress violated constitutional principles separation powers also bill attainder clause prohibits legislation singles person entity punishment without trial
The actual intended effect prohibitions bar Huawei significant segments US market telecommunications equipment services thereby inflicting immediate ongoing economic competitive reputational harms Huawei companys lawyers wrote suit
They added prohibitions carried without fair hearing opportunity rebut allegations without opportunity escape
The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab filed ultimately lost similar legal challenge two years ago After Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies ban Kaspersky products systems Congress codified directive law
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits arguing singled punishment without trial A judge ultimately dismissed lawsuits pointing came legitimate desire protect American networks
The Justice Department filed criminal charges Huawei January cases focus companys connections evading American sanctions Iran theft intellectual property Neither relates core question faced governments around world whether using Huaweis equipment new 5G networks causes security concerns
The new lawsuit seeks focus question push United States government make case While Huawei unlikely reverse American opposition company may hope win government officials countries including Europe probably following American lawsuit closely
Debate security Huaweis systems come critical moment countries around world preparing spend hundreds billions dollars expanding cellular networks next generation 5G technology
The new networks faster speeds also used connect bewildering number new sensors datacollection systems alongside smartphones That would make vulnerabilities networks potentially serious cellular networks past
Mr Lu Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman expressed support Huaweis legal action
We believe perfectly justified fully understandable companies safeguard legitimate rights interests legal means said
Many Chinese expressed support social media Huaweis legal stand United States Some others noted sarcasm difficulties similar legal recourse companies individuals within Chinas system
So sue government wrote one user Weibo Chinese social media service Interesting All sudden Im thinking actually I dont dare think
Keith Bradsher contributed reporting Shanghai Zoe Mou contributed research Beijing Qiqing Lin Shanghai



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Associated Press
MOGADISHU Somalia Gunmen Islamist militant group stormed government building Somalias capital Mogadishu suicide car bombing Saturday killing least five people including countrys deputy labor minister police said
Somali security forces fought hourslong gun battle least five assailants retake control building houses ministries labor works police officer Capt Mohamed Hussein said
The Reuters news agency citing police sources put death toll end battle 15
Saqar Ibrahim Abdalla Somalias deputy minister labor social affairs killed groundfloor office shortly gunmen stormed building Captain Hussein said
Saturday working day Somalia dozens people believed building time attack
The Shabab claimed responsibility attack building far headquarters Somali intelligence agency As attack unfolded gunfire could heard building White smoke billowed scene witnesses said
A similar attack targeting busy area Mogadishu February killed least 24 people That attack also began pair car bombs exploding popular area Mogadishu Somalis relaxing restaurants
The Shabab links Al Qaeda frequently carry suicide bombings targeting public places hotels government offices They Africas active Islamist militant group fighting years take power create Islamic state Somalia
The group continues mount lethal attacks despite pushed Mogadishu part African Union peacekeepers It mostly operates rural areas countrys south
The group carried many deadly attacks neighboring Kenya retaliation Kenyas deployment 2011 peacekeepers Somalia
The United States military carried number deadly airstrikes recent months Shabab


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
France Dispatch
By Adam Nossiter
BAYONNE France The government Paris disapproves But local mayor doesnt care He says continue sheltering Africans crossing Spanish border France
For JeanRené Etchegaray mayor Bayonne quiet refined city French Basque Country 22 miles border matter necessity humanitarian obligation
Since Italy closed borders migrants France tried close border migrants coming Italy Spain become prime gateway Europe migrants Africa 57000 arriving last year
Many crossing France transiting Bayonne place everything reasonable Stendhal wrote mid19th century
But Mr Etchegaray sees reasonable stance put war government President Emmanuel Macron even mayor become case study frontline management Europes migration crisis contradictions
The mayor doesnt necessarily want young men predominantly Frenchspeaking West African countries like Guinea Mali Ivory Coast hanging around forever He also doesnt want camping streets tall old halftimbered Basque houses nestled along slowmoving rivers
But wants migrants exist city condition dignity put I dont think I less said
So Mr Etchegaray took young men streets requisitioned old military barracks near train station put camp beds brought hot meals keeps place heated
The young men greet warmly shows several times day
Good man said one temporary guests Abdul Sylla 29yearold Guinea harbors vague hopes studying Close people
Official France keeps wagging finger citys mayor
It absolutely question state would give slightest aid mayors shelter Gilbert Payet recently Mr Macrons regional representative Interior Ministry testily told local reporters last month
The mayor unfazed
I saw frontiers closing far Im concerned fundamental rights cant trampled Mr Etchegaray said evoking Bayonnes heritage refuge Jews fleeing Spanish Inquisition birthplace great Jewish jurist René Cassin helped draft Universal Declaration Human Rights
The French states attitude toward mayor illustrates Mr Macrons ambiguities subject migration
germany
200 miles
Paris
switz
France
Atlantic
Ocean
italy
Mediterranean Sea
spain
30 miles
Bayonne
Bay Biscay
france
Irun
basque country
spain
By The New York Times
On one hand exalted Frances humanitarian traditions asked police treat migrants fairness
On government refused admission migrant ships put migrant rights advocates trial boasted many foreigners expelled turned back frontiers
The Italians angrily accused French hypocrisy Mr Etchegaray used word
The prefect said No recalled Maïté Etcheverry young volunteer runs shelter Bayonne
But mayor merely carried distributing blankets inquiring migrants wellbeing paying center budget local agglomeration towns runs
They said Youre going create pull factor even migrants Mr Etchegaray said laugh interview office past week
They said Youre going create another Calais said referring squalid encampments northern France since demolished thousands migrants waited mud cold misery hoping get England
So far hasnt turned way
I dont feel Im anything contrary law Mr Etchegaray said mildly
Look Im kind radical crazy person continued noting migrants stay days move
He even moved bus stop lowcost travel services front shelter make easier migrants leave And went war bus company drivers demanding illegally Africans produce identity papers
We squatters France supported City Hall Ms Etcheverry said grinning
That mayor hes deep prefect visibly interior minister said Ms Etcheverry law student Its really kind extraordinary
A selfdescribed radical proBasque independence leftist found political opposition 66yearold centerright mayor Not time
The migrants come go center day often arriving inconspicuous cars traffickers The local police say seedy district around train station nearby Spanish border city Irún become hive trafficking
One recent day group six young African men backpacks hurried single file across plaza Irún flight stairs
They bundled waiting car quickly drove Watching plaza several spotters talking furtively phones All happened right noses group Spanish police officers 20 yards away stir
French Spanish officers wait opposite sides bridge crossing river separates Spain France corner The border open unless migrant case might get stopped checked sent back
If migrants make shelter Bayonne however temporary refuge
The local police enter courtyard converted shelter long low hall staffed volunteers stocked donations food clothing The young men staying play scrabble lie quietly camp beds grateful worst seems behind
I never want see sea said Ibrahima Doumbia young Guinean crossed Mediterranean boat I fright life
With arrival cold weather fall knew growing migrant population Bayonne could longer stay one citys main squares people camping
It cold raining Mr Etchegaray said We couldnt leave anymore They cold sick hungry
The mayor formed plans initiative quickly He came directly square Ms Etcheverry recalled adding remembered saying Ill back halfhour
When returned led volunteers migrants underground parking lot municipal police temporary solution something better could found
He accompanied showed toilets Ms Etcheverry recounted He saw quiet young people helping young people But never imagined would end like center financed municipality
It mayors duty Mr Etchegaray said
The state doesnt want know added But Ive got know And emergency



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Bits
By Jamie Condliffe
Hi Im Jamie Condliffe Greetings London Heres look weeks tech news
There little fashionable 2019 desire curb Big Techs power But knowing far regulators go putting limits Silicon Valleys largest companies isnt straightforward
At one extreme calls break Big Tech Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines week called Ms Warren Massachusetts Democrat argued companies shouldnt offer products platforms controlled like Apples selling apps App Store something Spotify called European regulators Wednesday She also said would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions Facebooks takeovers Instagram WhatsApp
Her pitch isnt perfect The New York Timess Kevin Roose pointed generic misses easy wins overlooks big issues But bold inspiring rally cry Big Techs biggest critics
At end spectrum tech companies Ideally likes Facebook Google would love perpetually operate lightly regulated world helped grow quickly But even Mark Zuckerberg Facebooks chief executive acknowledged inevitable regulation testified House Energy Commerce Committee April
Theres plenty room extremes Take example report published Wednesday British government called overhaul antitrust policies Big Tech Its main proposal new regulator identify companies strategic market status block activities promoting products services search results belonging competitors hello Google
That reports authors say probusiness proconsumer solution changing antitrust law drive breakup businesses
So whos right Mr Zuckerberg least says regulatory intervention inevitable Theres strong bipartisan support regulation As line drawn thats harder say
Breaking big companies isnt easy Its expensive takes long time And doesnt always go plan The last notable attempt judge ruled two decades ago Microsoft cleaved violated antitrust law overturned appeal So Ms Warren could work cut
But may ultimately become question balancing ambition need Is better gamble breaking big companies guarantee new rules curb behavior Thats something lawmakers going wrestle
When OpenAI founded three years ago huge goal build artificial intelligence software capable human brain Its founders said nonprofit noble ambitions 1 billion funding backers pay way public could trust build socalled general artificial intelligence
Only 1 billion doesnt go far goals like Huge computing resources big salaries attract talent burn cash Actually turns profits might useful
So Wired reported Open AI announced changing business model To keep Facebook Google created OpenAI LP company take money investors need return profit like venture funds That make easier raise funds Down line might monetize technology develops But company decided cap returns investors see 100 every dollar invested
One way think figure OpenAI deems 100times return ethical margin building general AI enough make feasible endeavor much tar Big Tech brush That reasoning clearly holds inhabit Silicon Valley But interesting see profit cap enough put everyone ease
On March 12 1989 Tim BernersLee proposed idea linking digital files boss Mike Sendall called vague exciting It ultimately became World Wide Web 30 years later left much love hate existence
At event Londons Science Museum Tuesday mark webs passage fourth decade Mr BernersLee asked might look like another 30 years Heres said
Its I think us try guess
Look whats happened last 30 years The web changed really dramatically lot couldnt predicted
What say web want
We want web open We want web royaltyfree We want web discriminationfree
Worthy goals And article wrote past week Mr BernersLee laid steps may required ensure happen
Governments must translate laws regulations digital age They must ensure markets remain competitive innovative open
Companies must ensure pursuit shortterm profit expense human rights democracy scientific fact public safety
Platforms products must designed privacy diversity security mind
And important citizens must hold companies governments accountable
Thirty years Mr Sendalls analysis might apply equally well proposal
Elon Musk really dislikes whistleblowers According Businessweek Mr Musk Tesla chief executive set destroy one employee leaked details raw materials wastage company
How Google pay executives accused misconduct Handsomely Two shared total 135 million according details emerged lawsuit week
Who fund next wave tech startups Thatll millionaires created companies like Airbnb Uber go public
You care TikTok You might never use could reshape social media know
Scientists dropped smartphone blender Because apparently best way work much cobalt gold substances
How disappear almost completely A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps going dark staying online
Silicon Valley wants build monument To Silicon Valley obviously
Jamie Condliffe editor DealBook newsletter He also writes weekly Bits newsletter Follow Twitter jme_c
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Vivian Yee Hwaida Saad
BEIRUT Lebanon Lebanons newly formed government gives Islamist movement Hezbollah key ministries raised concerns country could run afoul sanctions United States prohibit material support Iranbacked group
On Friday United States warned Hezbollah propping agenda new position includes key posts Lebanons government including Ministry Health
American officials concerned Hezbollah use ministry provide statesubsidized health care patronage jobs supporters possibly even fighters helping endure punishing American sanctions made difficult group offer usual social services Shiite Muslim base
We call new government ensure resources services ministries provide support Hezbollah said State Department spokesman Robert Palladino
As new cabinet coalesced Thursday nearly nine months political deadlock assistant United States Treasury secretary terrorist financing Marshall Billingslea warned Hezbollah tried exploit ministries funnel money undertake activities support terrorist agenda significant concerns
Hezbollah expected gain strength government group allies expanded share seats Lebanons parliamentary elections last May significantly weakening Westernbacked prime minister Saad Hariri bloc Now control Health Ministry fourthlargest budget government ability embed Lebanese state institutions made bigger target elusive prey United States designated terrorist group
Lebanons political system awards posts patronage spoils politicians different religious affiliations order maintain balance among countrys 18 officially recognized religious sects There long history ministers stripes using Health Ministry provide free subsidized health care supporters Analysts believe Hezbollah may try whether Shiite base troublingly United States Hezbollah fighters wounded Syrian civil war next door
This yet another example Hezbollah openly holding Lebanons security prosperity hostage said Rachel Mikeska spokeswoman American Embassy Lebanon She added United States prepared take whatever actions necessary protect interests Lebanese people
She declined say actions might But analysts said possibilities ranged relatively restrained reducing funding Health Ministry squeezing international donors like World Health Organization dire The United States could theoretically impose sanctions Lebanese hospitals preventing export American medications Lebanon cut American military aid Lebanese Army
It unclear Hezbollah might Health Ministry Trump administration would consider violation sanctions law President Trump signed October Analysts said Hezbollah may chosen Dr Jamil Jabak 63yearold internist close ties Hezbollah health minister try avoid direct sanctions ministry Dr Jabak member Hezbollah said served personal physician groups leader
Would Washington consider free health care Hezbollah members provided Health Ministry example significant financial support wrote Michael Young political observer journalist Carnegie Middle East Center Beirut opinion column last year Its difficult say would never
The United States various interests Lebanon often end conflict including comes Hezbollah It wants counter Iran proxies also maintain Lebanons stability war Syria continues burn also wants battle terrorism push back Russian influence Middle East
Though Washington designated Hezbollah terrorist organization actions around world close relationship Iran group also baked legitimate parts Lebanese state making difficult United States target without also affecting rest country
The debate US Lebanon always prioritize balance competing priorities said Firas Maksad director Arabia Foundation Washingtonbased think tank leans toward proSaudi Arabia antiIran policies
On one side debate antiIran hardliners argue Iran Mediterranean Hezbollah uses Lebanese political elite Lebanese government thin veil political cover Mr Maksad said
Those voices include Republicans Congress members Trump administration may push cutting aid Lebanese Army significant source support armed forces well Health Ministry
Opposing hawkish views including much traditional foreign policy establishment prefer measured response
Given Lebanons floundering economy political instability Mr Maksad said dont want whole place come The prospect economic collapse greatly increased pressure countrys political factions strike powersharing agreement
They also argue reducing military aid would leave room Russia expanded influence across Middle East make inroads Lebanon
In general sanctions financial tools come primary stick used United States Iran regional partners On trip Beirut last week Mr Billingslea urged Lebanese officials exclude Hezbollah involvement countrys banking financial sectors called reforms would allow Lebanese authorities block freeze accounts associated group
But Hezbollah continues expand influence Lebanese institutions sanctions may prove overly blunt tool hitting legitimate government services civilians addition party
In past Hezbollah played smaller role government could easily separate Hezbollah state institutions said Hanin Ghaddar LebaneseAmerican analyst Washington Institute Near East Policy frequent critic Hezbollah
Now Hezbollah commanding broad swath government asked How keep stability Lebanese institutions going Hezbollah everything
But Kassem Qassir Lebanese political analyst close Hezbollah said concerns Hezbollahs dominance overblown
Nobody sole control Lebanon neither Hezbollah anybody else said Lebanon diverse country
In televised interview Saturday Hassan Nasrallah organizations secretary general said group intend meddle Lebanons balance power
But Mr Maksad noted Hezbollah managed forge pacts Christian Sunni politicians well Shiite ones held formation new government prime minister Sunni agreed allow Hezbollahs Sunni allies cabinet unmistakable mark strength
Of new faces 30seat cabinet Dr Jabak physician leading ministry closely watched West attracted immediate attention
I dont belong political party said radio interview Friday


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Julia Jacobs
Forty years ago CSpan went live first public broadcast House Representatives chamber giving Americans televisionshaped window lawmakers behave ornate room history often made
Ushering CSpan era March 19 1979 Al Gore representative Tennessee pushed networks access Capitol
From day forward Mr Gore said time every member body must ask many Americans listening debates made
Since day CSpan debuted four employees network become mainstay American politics We spoke Susan Swain one CSpans two chief executives birth network Washingtons initial resistance caught camera network adapted social media age
This interview Ms Swain joined CSpan three years started edited brevity clarity
In moment Al Gore approached lectern House chamber CSpan went live changed American politics
The fact people could actually see elected representatives living room phones fundamental change In past people might pull lever every two years member Congress super engaged might read newsletter came mail go occasional town hall meeting
This meant time interested could watch member Congress say Prior television Congress time members really got attention big names like Kennedy something outrageous either positively negatively member leadership
Initially lot resistance Washington idea CSpan broadcasting House floor debates And Senate didnt allow CSpan another seven years Why resistance
Members concerns cameras would swinging around taking pictures members focused attentively debates heaven forbid closing eyes second Or today perhaps might sending tweet
One ways finally came bear created compromise members could live The compromise House Representatives speakers office would control cameras floor House All rest Congress press conferences hearings CSpan news organizations covering independently
Every time theres change speaker sent letter saying Nows time Allow CSpan journalistic organizations put cameras side side That argument continues go nowhere
Were politicians selfconscious theyd appear camera
I think concern wouldnt control picture The Senate finally acquiesced classic story American politics
The House coming peoples living rooms via CSpan regularly nightly news could picked regularly nightly stories House Television loves pictures would stories House The Senate becoming concerned becoming secondtier citizen Congress
The person really instrumental Senator Robert Byrd West Virginia one oldline members much institutionalist much concerned Senate would change He went home West Virginia speak introduced West Virginia home state speaker House And big shock white hair thenSpeaker House Tip ONeill And brought home So convinced recalcitrant members vote CSpan went June 1986
What one significant memories time CSpan
The day Challenger shuttle exploded televising live I believe I air shuttle going And became clear watched picture shuttle major catastrophe
We sat watched long NASA took pictures story began unfold Then opened phone lines There incredible outpouring around country people witnessing absolute tragedy human tragedy also technological tragedy unfold front eyes
CSpan given politicians platform connect directly constituents social media Is CSpan still relevant
CSpans relevance comes form events cover every day within minutes televise digitized stored video archives It 250000 hours political video weve covered since 1987
That means member Congress pull clip hearing send constituents It also means people social media latenight comedians immediate access
I think people 20s younger experience CSpan social media latenight comedians The creation video library 1987 every bit significant original creation CSpan
CSpan long fought cameras allowed Supreme Court chamber What chances youll succeed
I feel little bit like Sisyphus pushing rock hill What documented years people nominated Supreme Court go committee hearings expressing open mind concept get inside chamber nine manage convinced others would detrimental institution
We keep hoping generations change younger appointees come familiar media even social media attitude change But institution continues prevail
Follow Julia Jacobs Twitter juliarebeccaj



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Benjamin Mueller
LONDON Britains tottering efforts leave European Union remained impasse Thursday allies Prime Minister Theresa May tried keep deal alive face unbending opposition
The deal already defeated twice Parliament given new life Wednesday Mrs May promised Conservative Party colleagues hardline supporters leaving bloc would step passed let someone else take next stage talks Brussels process known Brexit
Who could Britains next prime minister Here contenders
But even offer resign enough assuage hardline Conservatives putative allies Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland DUP hate deal
So government tried new tack Thursday Ministers said would disassemble Mrs Mays deal two parts one called withdrawal agreement political declaration ask Parliament vote Friday first
The withdrawal agreement outlines terms Britains exit European Union political declaration deals tangled question future relationship bloc
The basics Brexit troubled plan Britain quit European Union
The speaker House Commons John Bercow said would allow Parliament vote plan changed substantially since rejected resoundingly twice Thursday said government met test
Ministers pitching vote proBrexit hardliners last opportunity secure Britains exit European Union coming months lest proEuropeans Parliament take control try frustrate Brexit force longer delay
Ministers also hoped date vote March 29 originally scheduled day Britains exit would put symbolic pressure proBrexit Conservatives swallow objections back Mrs May
But withdrawal agreement contains contentious pieces Mrs Mays plan
Among socalled backstop least temporarily binds Britain greater extent Northern Ireland European trading rules avoid customs checks historically contentious border Ireland part European Union Northern Ireland part United Kingdom
Unionists Northern Ireland reject backstop believe would create regulatory differences Northern Ireland rest United Kingdom putting union risk
And British news media reports late Thursday said unionists intended vote Mrs Mays plan Friday considerably narrowing prime ministers path victory
There hope among Conservatives splitting Mrs Mays plan two would strengthen case opposition Labour lawmakers whose main objections political declaration withdrawal agreement
But Labour leaders reacted angrily idea Thursday noting Mrs May previously said two pieces plan inextricably linked
Keir Starmer senior Labour official warned Thursday splitting would leave us blindest blindfold Brexits He referring Labours fear Parliament passed part Mrs Mays plan prime minister resigned hardline proBrexit politician like Boris Johnson would take shape crucial next stage negotiations
Stephen Doughty Labour member Parliament said This looks like trickery highest order
Confusion swirled day Parliament governments plans ministers leaving lawmakers dark would voting Friday late afternoon
At time antiBrexit lawmakers working behind scenes pick alternate plans put Parliament Monday case Mrs Mays deal pass
The antiBrexit lawmakers buoyed votes Parliament Wednesday night catalog proposals clashed Mrs Mays
Those included onceradical ideas like holding second public vote Brexit revoking Britains decision leave altogether well Brexit plans would see Britain keep closer ties Europe Mrs Mays proposal envisioned
The votes represented first time two years Brexit negotiations Parliament allowed express feelings alternate plans lawmakers hoped would show path compromise
But chagrin Mrs Mays opponents eight alternate plans failed muster majority leading British newspaper The Guardian run headline front page Thursday No No No No No No No No
Some proposals got close A plan customs union Britain European Union lost six votes Mr Bercow said tallying error originally led say eightvote margin
And option holding another referendum test Britons views leaving bloc attracted support expected 268 members voted favor 295
The result proposal second referendum coming weekend hundreds thousands people marched London another vote five million signed petition asking cancel Brexit sign views antiBrexit politicians grown intense process drags
The nonbinding votes set stage another round debate Parliament Monday menu alternate options whittled politicians given second chance coalesce behind new plan
If Mrs Mays withdrawal agreement passes Friday Parliament would meet European Unions deadline completing Brexit process extracting Britain bloc May 22
If Britain could crash bloc without deal April 12 analysts say would calamitous exit could ask longer extension
Mrs Mays offer resign another reminder anxiety Britain Brexit Conservative Party politics still dictated large degree members leadership ambitions
ProBrexit politicians like Mr Johnson long angling take Mrs May chance sooner rather later seemed enough many back months fierce opposition deal
Mr Johnson said Mrs Mays deal strapped suicide vest around country Another hardline proBrexit lawmaker Jacob ReesMogg said prime ministers plan would turn Britain slave state
On Wednesday said would back deal



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Jim Tankersley Patricia Cohen
WASHINGTON The longest government shutdown United States history resulted shocking number taxpayers calls Internal Revenue Service going unreturned left languish hold unusually long periods according government audit released Tuesday
The audit office National Taxpayer Advocate found five million pieces mail went unanswered 87000 amended tax returns processed shutdown thousands IRS workers furloughed working without pay
The issues especially acute since followed significant changes tax code ushered President Trumps 15 trillion tax overhaul left many people questions filing returns
The problems continued even shutdown audit found In week ended Feb 2 shortly agency employees returned jobs fewer half calls IRSs accountsmanagement lines answered compared nearly 90 percent week last year The typical hold time callers increased 17 minutes four minutes 2018
There similar frustrations called agencys socalled balancedue line hopes making payment arrangements taxes owed Fewer 7 percent calls answered typical wait stretched 80 minutes
IRS officials said reviewing taxpayer advocates findings
We continuing assess impact shutdown various operations across agency remain proud many IRS employees risen resulting challenges agency said statement The IRS committed continue making improvements across information technology tax enforcement taxpayer service operations
Data released agency last week showed Americans filed 12 percent fewer returns Feb 2 compared point 2018 IRS processed 26 percent fewer returns The agency given indication Tuesdays statement otherwise might consider pushing back Aprils tax filing deadline order account shutdownrelated snags
The taxpayer advocates audit focus solely shutdowns impact reflected effort office led Nina E Olson capture typical taxpayer experience dealing IRS The audit said many Americans feelings process could boiled two words extreme frustration
The audit found policy change made Trump administration intended simplify taxfiling process creation postcard size 1040 form made filing difficult new form include much information many taxpayers need complete returns
The new schedules force taxpayers crossreference transfer data credits deductions income increasing potential errors occur since tax information dispersed many pages needs tracked reported different schedules forms report says
The problems became apparent 35day shutdown ended Jan 25 underscored agencys deeper flaws including reliance 1960sera technology audit found The systems contain official record taxpayer accounts oldest federal government
For last 25 years IRS tried unable replace audit says citing budgetary constraints
The outdated systems deprive IRS comprehensive view taxpayers accounts hampering agencys ability properly identify targeted outreach collections audits
Inadequate financing primary cause agencys failings audit found Congress long beat IRS routinely condemning performance cutting budget For example money technology improvements 2018 fiscal year reduced 62 percent 110 million year
Taxpayers called IRS last fall advice new tax law would affect frequently told tax law personnel time due budgetary cuts disconnected audit found Part reason decision agency answer tax law questions three half months January tax filing day
A lack information also meant vast majority taxpayers eligible use free software file returns electronically take advantage program Of 106 million taxpayers could qualify free program fewer 25 million use
Because editing error earlier version article referred imprecisely 62 percent reduction financing Internal Revenue Service 2018 fiscal year It applied technology improvements specifically general improvements


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Dan Bilefsky
MONTREAL Canadian diplomats posted Cuba suing government claiming failed protect respond robustly mysterious illness acquired stationed Cuba
The illness known Havana Syndrome affected dozens American Canadian diplomats posted Cuba come symptoms like memory loss sleep disturbance nosebleeds saying heard strange highpitched sound
The suit filed week federal court Toronto says Canadian government slow respond provide sufficient medical treatment diplomats children targeted 2017 strange debilitating attacks resulted brain injuries without evident physical trauma
Paul Miller lawyer representing 14 diplomats spouses children suing compared attack preceded illnesses science fiction horror film
He said plaintiffs seeking 28 million Canadian dollars damages
It tragedy diplomats kids lifelong trauma attacks said
The plaintiffs identified pseudonyms sensitivities related work nature injuries concerns expressed Canada relating according suit
The murky circumstances illness drawn international speculation Neither United States Canada determined cause leading speculation kind microwave weapon could involved
Last month Canadian government said would withdraw half diplomatic staff Cuba another employee fell ill condition said affected 14 Canadian employees spouses dependents
So far 26 Americans affected similar illnesses according State Department
Speaking reporters Washington Wednesday evening Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland declined comment specifics case But said met diplomats affected health safety priority
Its privilege serve Canada around world also really hard something whole families said Im really concerned Canadas utmost sympathy support
One Canadian career diplomat party suit said familys lives turned upsidedown The diplomat requested anonymity still worked government said stationed Cuba 2017 suddenly fell ill debilitating headaches initially attributed stress
After hearing American cases Havana Syndrome said connected symptoms highpitched noises coming backyard
She said 10yearold daughter affected well waking heavy nosebleed later suffering headaches forced miss school
She said Canadian government waited months seeking treatment diplomats prevented warning colleagues posted Cuba
The diplomat said emotional trauma suffering mysterious illness exacerbated feeling government believe
The suit contends despite knowing risks similar attacks American diplomats 2016 Canada continued send diplomats Havana It accused government playing seriousness situation leaving victims contend rumors faking
The plaintiffs also contend government restricted information could share doctors tried stop University Pennsylvania Center Brain Injury Repair studying syndrome testing Canadians
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Dave Philipps
SHREVEPORT La Transgender troops like Senior Airman Sterling Crutcher seen unreasonable burden Trump administration It says presence hurts morale militarys ability fight place uniform
Thats news Airman Crutcher He got back deployment B52 bomber squadron fellow airmen squadron counts among best friends threw shower wife Aimee celebrate first child born February
Sign weekly At War newsletter receive stories duty conflict consequence
At level issue Airman Crutcher 30 said serving transgender I meet exceed standards people I work like They lot questions dont problem
This uneasy time transgender troops United States military caught commander chief wants court injunctions least temporarily said could stay The last injunctions lifted Thursday
But dozens transgender troops like Airman Crutcher said interviews felt supported service Their comrades commanders welcomed said military often accepting homes neighborhoods left enlist
Nearly 1000 troops officially deemed transgender currently serving American military according Defense Department another 228 process enlisting They globe wide spectrum roles infantry officers armor platoon leaders drill sergeants intelligence specialists Arabic linguists nuclear reactor operators A transgender instructor teaches leadership Naval Academy
They started coming publicly 2016 military lifted longtime ban concluding would significant negative impact budgets operations But President Trump announced abrupt reversal policy Twitter year later saying would longer allow transgender troops serve capacity
The Defense Department laid arguments excluding transgender troops House Armed Services Committee late last month James N Stewart senior Pentagon official testified transgender troops prone mental health issues troops transition medical treatments make nondeployable months factors said would make recruits ineligible serve stemmed kinds preexisting health conditions
Mr Stewart retired Air Force general rejected calling policy ban saying policy drafted presidents Twitter announcement still allows transgender troops serve long never transition
He argued troops transitioned ranks could also raise complicated questions physical fitness standards access shower bathroom facilities may upset others leading unnecessary debilitating leadership challenges
Other troops military leaders disagree Five transgender troops also testified hearing said aside uncertainty created change policy encountered problems transitioning uniform Instances harassment according Sparta association transgender troops
And testimony Senate last spring heads Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps said aware issues caused transgender troops serving openly
Airman Crutcher says people outside unit realize transgender He relaxes weekends playing video games Airsoft gun battles troops unit
Theres nothing remarkable either way said Senior Airman Kyle Daily serves squadron There people unit dont agree theyre minority
Many transgender recruits come socially conservative small towns strict religious upbringings spent youth feeling like misfits Some troops born anatomically male said interviews enlisted initial hope military service would drum feminine feelings
I hoped would straighten I didnt want family hate said Aylanna Anderson Air Force staff sergeant raised Catholic tiny West Texas town became Eagle Scout I hoped I could leave I saw dark part behind
To surprise enlisting 2012 Sergeant Anderson said found culture emphasized judging people ability identity She began transition female 2017
The military freeing said phone Kunsan Air Base South Korea repairs electronics F16 fighters I dont know I could done otherwise
Airman Crutcher grew Pentecostal household rural Missouri said wrote heartfelt letter family lifelong sense boy girls body refused read asking instead drugs
By contrast came Air Force commander said reaction What I need I want make sure supported
A days back deployment Guam bomber squadron shopping crib pregnant wife got text mother
But wasnt birth mother says essentially disowned told 2015 transgender It Air Force mother Kim Thomas wife lieutenant colonel informally adopted meeting basic training He spends holidays family calls Mom
Shes best Airman Crutcher said leaned wifes phone see photo Ms Thomas sent new outfit baby It lifechanging support family love matter
Ms Thomas said taking Airman Crutcher wing came naturally Here amazing kid volunteered fight die country said We going allow go military without support
A 2016 RAND Corporation study found nearly onefifth transgender troops plan transition medically Those transition may depending gender preference undergo hormone therapy breast removal procedures like surgery make facial features voices gender appropriate All covered military
Transitioning troops also request surgery change genitals approval process recovery time lengthy The Defense Department respond questions many gender reassignment procedures performed troops since ban lifted 2016 Sparta estimates figure six
The cost disruption associated surgery chief complaint critics RAND study estimated factors would negligible fewer 200 active troops transitioning per year total cost less 10 million In interviews troops transitioned said tried time surgical procedures scheduled lulls unit activity sometimes put deployments demanding work assignments
Even transitioning detour careers Some Sparta members said removed sensitive jobs pilots air traffic controllers nuclear missile operators concern might mentally unstable
Regulations get way well Airman Crutcher sent home early 2016 deployment Qatar medical staff discovered testosterone treatments receiving violated rule injected medications troops deployed region
I crushed said My major called said fought stay regulations
Capt Alivia Stehlik transgender woman graduated West Point man 2008 completed Armys punishing Ranger School led infantry platoon She Army physical therapist stationed Fort Carson Colo
In interview home said transition seen asset burden
She volunteered deploy Afghanistan infantry brigade last spring units regular physical therapist became pregnant Captain Stehlik spent nearly year hopping helicopters base base treating sprains injuries medical bag one hand M4 rifle
Sixfootthree broadshouldered said would pretty obvious 1700 soldiers treated transgender never problem
Its woman I still job I man I actually better Captain Stehlik said People actually open I made vulnerable I think I still guy might downplayed much things hurt tried act tough And I might


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Elizabeth A Harris
The United States Copyright Office said dance first popularized TV show The Fresh Prince BelAir could copyrighted actor created according court documents filed week
Alfonso Ribeiro actor played Carlton show one several performers sued video game makers recent months saying dances purchased performed avatars games stolen Mr Ribeiro sued Epic Games maker Fortnite Battle Royale well TakeTwo Interactive Software makes NBA 2K16
But copyright office convinced Mr Ribeiro called Carlton Dance enthusiastically swings arms sways hips eligible copyright protection saying simple routine complex enough clear bar
That surprise least said Robert Brauneis codirector intellectual property program George Washington University Law School
Its like word short phrase Professor Brauneis said The copyright office always taken position words phrases copyrightable exactly like word phrase dance You could repeat word phrase indefinitely Im shaking hips Im shaking hips repetition doesnt make fragment subject copyright protection
Courts bound copyright offices decision could reach different conclusion Professor Brauneis said copyright offices determination would taken consideration
Mr Ribeiros lawyer David L Hecht said planned ask copyright office reconsider even individual movements considered simple way clients arranged movements considered choreographic works
Its combine notes musical composition said Those compilations would entitled copyright protection law
Mr Hecht said Mr Ribeiro submitted three copyright applications Two rejected one still consideration Mr Hecht said request copyright rapper 2 Milly rejected tried register Milly Rock ask copyright office reconsider But clients better luck Russell Horning teenager known Backpack Kid able register office 30second dance Mr Hecht described variant dance called Floss
Epic Games TakeTwo Interactive declined comment Friday


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Richard PérezPeña Stephen Castle
LONDON A small influential party aligned Prime Minister Theresa Mays government suggested Friday still support plan Britains departure European Union development could doom hopes persuading Parliament pass deal next week third try
The Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland holds 10 seats 650seat House Commons But central sticking point talks British withdrawal handle border Northern Ireland Ireland partys position carries disproportionate weight others Parliament
Parliament twice rejected agreement Mrs May negotiated European Union Britains departure known Brexit times DUP voted largely concerns border issue
If Parliament rejects deal still possibility cliffedge Brexit short term much longer delay renegotiate agreement leave
Mrs Mays position appears grow precarious day chances winning approval Brexit deal hold power Longstanding talk could ousted party Parliament whole intensified becoming constant rumble background says
On Tuesday speaker House Commons John Bercow ruled could bring plan vote third time without substantive change On Wednesday delivered speech blaming Parliament paralysis angering lawmakers sides
On Thursday European Union leaders agreed postpone March 29 departure date rejected prime ministers request threemonth delay giving next week win parliamentary approval deal come alternative April 12
If deal agreed Parliament Britains exit pushed back May 22 On Friday came blow Democratic Unionist Party Monday lawmakers try seize control Brexit policy Mrs May
Nigel Dodds leader DUPs caucus Parliament said statement posted partys website inexcusable Mrs May met blocs leaders major concessions
The government far willing capitulate securing necessary changes would get agreement House Commons said
His party many others support withdrawal contend Mrs Mays deal could leave Britain trapped making subject European Union economic rules indefinitely And treating Northern Ireland differently rest nation say deal risks splitting United Kingdom apart
Nothing changed far Withdrawal Agreement concerned Mr Dodds said We accept deal poses longterm risk constitutional economic integrity United Kingdom
Mrs May planned try third vote Parliament would need win votes 70 members That considered tall order even Mr Doddss message several Brexit supporters prime ministers Conservative Party said would follow DUPs lead
She still days win critics unlikely take Mr Doddss statement partys final word But another blow capping frenetic week setbacks
With Mrs Mays leadership questioned fellow Conservatives third rejection plan would increase pressure resign Her shifting signals might proceed defeat alienated lawmakers
She little room error Conservatives short majority able govern recently support Democratic Unionists
On Monday Parliament scheduled consider could first major step toward taking control process away government It vote whether hold rapidfire series votes specific alternatives plan
A similar proposal defeated last week two votes 314 312 Mrs Mays standing improved since
Having Parliament state preferences could allow form crossparty consensus emerge favor form Brexit keeps closer ties European Union Mrs May party would like That would require reopening negotiations bloc would mean long delay
European leaders made clear doubt Parliament approve Mrs Mays plan one reason willing grant short postponement The extension makes April 12 new date Britain leave union Parliament rejects deal Mrs May create credible alternative
Leaving without pact place Europe would upend Britains trade relationships experts say would serious economic damage prospect prime minister used pressure want soft Brexit Brexit
But hardcore Brexit supporters like idea nodeal withdrawal insist predictions harm wrong leaving little incentive support Mrs May
Meanwhile proEuropean Conservatives regard abrupt chaotic departure dread may motivated turn vote Monday exert parliamentary control
Under new timetable Parliament approves Mrs Mays deal Brexit take effect May 22 giving Britain time work details
The alternative European Union officials said long delay possibly two years Britain rethink position possibly restart negotiations



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maggie Astor
The House Oversight Reform Committee investigating allegations voter suppression Georgia Secretary State Brian Kemp since become governor
The investigation revealed letters committees Democratic leaders sent Wednesday Mr Kemp successor secretary state Brad Raffensperger The letters instructed Mr Kemp Mr Raffensperger Republicans provide March 20 wide range documents concerning voter roll purges holds placed voter registration applications polling site changes closings votingrelated issues
The committee also requested documents related potential conflict interest Mr Kemp faced administering election candidate
The Committee particularly concerned reports Georgians faced unprecedented challenges registering vote significant barriers casting votes tenure secretary state 2018 election Representatives Elijah E Cummings committee chairman Jamie Raskin head Subcommittee Civil Rights Civil Liberties wrote Mr Kemp
Mr Kemp Republicans committee immediately dismissed investigation political effort aimed undermining results election Democrats lost
Make sense people issues ideas shaping American politics newsletter
The letter outlined several points scrutiny 2018 governors race Stacey Abrams Democrat posed strong challenge Mr Kemp normally solidly Republican state
Many voters especially heavily AfricanAmerican counties waited polling places hours hundreds available voting machines sat unused government warehouses letter noted State officials sequestered machines response federal lawsuit said vulnerable hacking
Tens thousands voter registration applications mostly AfricanAmericans held state law requires name application exactly match name applicants government ID even missing hyphen cause problems
Mr Kemps office purged 14 million voters rolls tenure States required keep rolls uptodate remove people moved including Georgia much zealous others starting purging process basis voter cast ballot recently And county state officials closed 200 polling places 2012 2018
Throughout campaign Mr Kemp denied intentional voter suppression Asked comment Wednesday spokesman directed The Times video news conference Mr Kemp suggested investigation politically motivated distraction important issues
They need quit playing politics Mr Kemp said news conference pivoting attack House Democrats giving billions dollars disaster aid Puerto Rico farmers fixing lose farm He said nothing substance allegations document requests spokesman respond followup email
Mr Raffensperger current secretary state said received letter office looks forward open dialogue thorough process
Mr Cummings Mr Raskin Democratic committee leaders immediately available interviews Wednesday But decision open investigation evidence House Democrats newly empowered November election intend act aggressively issues like allegations voter suppression back burner first two years Trump administration
Representative Jim Jordan committees ranking Republican said spokesman highly unusual congressional committee involve states election
This squarely purview state Georgia House Oversight Committee Mr Jordan said statement We cant help think attempts Democrats insert committee states business attempt relitigate election result like
Mr Kemp narrowly defeated Ms Abrams ended campaign declaring This speech concession concession means acknowledge action right true proper




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos
WASHINGTON A powerful Democratic House committee chairman investigating possible abuses governments security clearance process stepped demands Friday see key documents interview potential witnesses White House light new report President Trump personally intervened grant soninlaw topsecret clearance despite legal national security concerns
The chairman Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland leads House Oversight Reform Committee accused White House new letter stonewalling requests information implied comply voluntarily would issue subpoena compel cooperation
He said report published The New York Times added new concerns Mr Trump lying public role clearance process existing broader questions irregularities surrounding access sensitive government secrets
If true new reports raise grave questions derogatory information career officials obtained Mr Kushner recommend denying access nations sensitive secrets Mr Cummings wrote letter Pat Cipollone White House counsel The letter went ask President Trump concealed role overruling recommendation General Kelly Mr McGahn felt compelled document actions office continuing withhold key documents witnesses Committee
The report The New York Times said Mr Trumps intervention concerned senior administration officials John F Kelly White House chief staff documented action contemporaneous internal memo said ordered grant Mr Kushner topsecret clearance
The Times also reported Donald F McGahn II White House counsel wrote memo documenting concerns raised CIA officials Mr Kushner Mr McGahn memo noted recommended giving broad access governments secrets
Mr Trump told The Times January Oval Office interview role Mr Kushners clearance
Mr Cummings pursuing reported irregularities White House Trump transition team since 2017 Republicans control House But started broad inquiry last month taking control oversight panel Congresss muscular investigative body said hoped would shine light national security risks may exist
He specifically requested information clearances nine current former administration officials including Mr Kushner Among whose clearances intends scrutinize Mr Trumps current former national security advisers John R Bolton Michael T Flynn onetime staff secretary Rob Porter former senior director National Security Council Robin Townley former deputy national security adviser K T McFarland well Sebastian Gorka former deputy assistant president
Mr Cummings also asked documents related review security clearance process Mr Kelly conducted 2018 concluded serious flaws system meant vet highlevel officials And Mr Cummings wants talk personnel White House Personnel Security Office
The White House said Friday thus far complied
In sign House Democrats would seek elevate issue oversight agenda Representative Adam B Schiff California chairman House Intelligence Committee said Thursday panel responsible overseeing American intelligence agencies would work Mr Cummings
Mr Schiff called Mr Trumps actions latest indicator presidents utter disregard national security men women sacrifice much every day keep us safe
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Kenneth P Vogel
WASHINGTON Michael D Cohens congressional testimony Wednesday revived questions whether President Trump broke law failing disclose footed bill hush payment pornographic film actress
Members House Oversight Reform Committee grilled Mr Cohen served decade presidents socalled fixer 130000 payment made 2016 presidential election actress keep quiet claim affair Mr Trump
Mr Cohen testified reimbursed installments Mr Trump company Trump Organization starting early 2017 payment actress Stormy Daniels
But Mr Trump failed list arrangement outstanding debt owed Mr Cohen financial disclosure statement submitted June 2017 government ethics laws requiring top federal officials divulge detailed information finances On 2018 form included footnote listing repayment 100001 250000 Mr Cohen raising questions whether 2017 filing improperly omitted debt Democrats pounced omission Wednesday
Donald Trump inflated value assets documents given Deutsche Bank Michael Cohen testified
Why think president provide accurate information 2017 financial disclosure form Representative Carolyn B Maloney Democrat New York asked Mr Cohen What trying hide
Mr Cohen responded Mr Trump trying avoid publicly revealing payments reimbursement funds I extended behalf
Mr Cohen asserted later Mr Trumps goal providing reimbursements installments order hide payment
The hush payment become increasing problem Mr Trump initially said 2018 unaware payment Ms Daniels He later acknowledged existence payment series Twitter posts asserted payment nothing election could considered undisclosed campaign contribution
Last year Mr Cohen contradicted pleading guilty litany charges including violating campaign finance laws connection hush payment
In congressional testimony Wednesday Mr Cohen elaborated payment scheme motivation It either somebody wire funds purchase life rights story Ms Clifford going end sold television would embarrassed president would interfered election Mr Cohen said referring Ms Daniels whose legal name Stephanie Clifford
He produced financial records showing fronted 130000 home equity line well two 35000 checks one Mr Trump one account linked business said among 11 payments reimburse hush payment
Ultimately said paid 420000 year connection hush payments explained included funds allow pay taxes payment 60000 bonus
All done express direction Mr Trump Mr Cohen testified We discussed said Everything go Mr Trump approved Mr Trump
The testimony seemed buttress claims Democrats government watchdog groups Mr Trump knowingly made false statement United States government omitting debts owed Mr Cohen 2017 personal financial disclosure statement
This congressional oversight actually yielding new evidence wrongdoing highest level government thats something congress supposed system checks balances said Noah Bookbinder executive director Citizens Responsibility Ethics Washington
His group filed complaint last year Justice Department Office Government Ethics asking investigation whether Mr Trump failed disclose debt And Wednesday said look like technical paperwork violation really goes issue keeping voters knowing need know make educated decisions


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maureen Dowd
Opinion Columnist
WASHINGTON Donald Trump specializes spectacular breakups
First Ivana Then Marla Now comes trouble paradise Kim
Last fall Trump cooed North Korean dictator wrote beautiful letters fell love president canceled lunch date following disappointing rendezvous Hanoi
Yet crazy tabloid splits international spats seem pallid comparison pathetic spectacle Congress Wednesday heartbroken ex publicly bitterly processing relationship Trump
This time wasnt lust betrayal secrets splayed across Page Six This time Congress part investigation could lead legal jeopardy Trumps impeachment president
In testimony Michael Cohen called fool came Trump I ignored conscience acted loyal man I Cohen said A fool love held thrall Trump How could anyone held thrall sleazy goofball much less offer take bullet make 500 threats behalf
It seems unbelievable I mesmerized Donald Trump I willing things I knew absolutely wrong said Cohen Goodfellas accent adding around icon intoxicating
Mr Trump enigma Cohen said He complicated I
Actually Trump simple grasping money attention fame The enigma Trump cut lap dog brutally Cohen fell embrace Robert Mueller New York federal prosecutors Trump often compared mob boss Michael Corleone would never turn loyal capo one crossed
The portrait Cohen drew Trump surprising It apparent time president con man racist cheat liar See Jared Kushner security clearance
What compelling congressional hearing portrait sadistic relationship sycophant sociopath
Cohen told House Oversight Committee working Trump made feel involved something greater somehow changing world
Threatening sue people take away livelihoods ruin reputations isnt exactly Greenpeace Doctors Without Borders But Cohen chugging Trump KoolAid He saw Trumps protector thugs thug
In late 2017 appeared get misty talking Vanity Fairs Emily Jane Fox Trump One man wants much good many detractors needs support He vowed would never walk away Trump matter A year ago even shopped around book meant rebuttal Michael Wolffs Fire Fury pitched family fixit guy titled Trump Revolution From Tower White House Understanding Donald J Trump
He understands Trump
A stung Trump went tweet storm Friday morning bringing book proposal calling love letter Trump manuscript noting Written submitted long Charlottesville Helsinki phony reasons going rogue Book exact opposite fake testimony lie
Unlike many Republican TV commentators wash away past sins Sarah Palin Iraq war get big payday liberal love trashing Trump Cohen destined reputation rehab
The problem nutshell Trump biographer Timothy OBrien told The Times Michael Cohen wasnt Roy Cohn The latter Trump lawyer one helped shape Trumps character lack thereof drumming winatallcosts mentality Donald learned fathers knee
Trump bleated Wheres Roy Cohn anger Jeff Sessions recusing wanted lawyer whipsmart amoral ruthless predatory Cohen merely Renfield Trumps Dracula gratefully eating insects fiends bidding
Trump used Cohen dirty deeds done dirt cheap ACDC sang
The Wall Street Journal reported Trump showed late Cohens sons bar mitzvah made belittling speech come Cohen begged everyone around The Times revealed last April Trump regularly threatened fire Cohen quoted Roger Stone saying Trump mocked Cohen overpaying Trump real estate
With exceptions inner circle family Trump doesnt give loyalty deserve Thats Republicans Hill obsequiously stand eventually learn wasnt worth Cohen warned
Loyalty rare commodity Washington And Cohen wretched sycophant political history That honor goes Andrew Young slavishly devoted aide John Edwards 2008 campaign served driver personal shopper handyman butler North Carolina senator
When Edwards affair campaign videographer Rielle Hunter pregnancy ensued persuaded Young say father Edwards also got Young go lam wife nurse Hunter baby hiding fancy hotels posh home near Santa Barbara odyssey financed Young Bunny Mellon As Young wrote The Politician inside campaign cultlike atmosphere encouraged extreme sycophancy
When Trump gave tour campaign headquarters Trump Tower summer 2016 introduced Cohen lawyer Cohen looked furtive standing around Trump favorites Corey Lewandowski Hope Hicks young guys desk whole bunch Trump portraits cutouts wall pictures Trumps vanquished primary rivals
It least presidential campaign headquarters ever drywall still unfinished places As The Times reported Cohen pushing years Trump president jealous attention Trump gave Lewandowski
When Trump somehow stumbled presidency family think Cohen snuff come Washington much less get highlevel job like chief staff dreamed The Journal reported Cohen guests even get priority access inaugural fetes
He central casting Trump Tower 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Trump biographer Michael DAntonio told The problem course much burdens Cohen exactly Trump liked past He willing awful command done countless times making countless enemies As someone target behavior I tell cartoonish ridiculous
Everyone disposable Trumpworld They sidelined fixer By time federal prosecutors investigating Cohens hush payments Trump inamoratas adultfilm actress former Playboy model Trump barely speaking Cohen
Boss I miss much said rare phone call Trump The Journal reported I wish I Its really hard
The yearning even palpable texts Jeff Bezos Lauren Sanchez
The selfstyled protector purdah resented
If Trump sophisticated ability think long term would anticipated Cohen might become problem didnt hold close OBrien told But Trump isnt longterm thinker
Hes never deal people faceplanted coming back haunt ever Hes people decades OBrien said The difference He never law enforcement turning people essentially weaponizing
DAntonio agreed president made mistake disrespecting Cohen believed purchased Michael would stay bought When underdog turns bites hard overdog always surprised
I invite follow Twitter MaureenDowd join Facebook
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion sign Opinion Today newsletter
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
He said working Donald Trump intoxicating Were feeling hung
By Michelle Cottle
Ms Cottle member editorial board
Liar liar pants fire
It Representative Paul Gosar Republican Arizona burst forth playground taunt Michael Cohen longtime fixer personal lawyer President Trump appeared Wednesday House Oversight Reform Committee talk former boss
But Mr Gosars observation isolated zinger encapsulation partys overarching approach Mr Cohens testimony It also provides pretty good sense minds hearing likely change era bitter polarization tough bring clarity swirl controversies engulfing president
As spectacle opening Washington 12 time zones away Hanoi president wrapping friendly dinner Kim Jongun tyrannical leader North Korea Mr Trump hopes pageantry peacemaking Asia overshadow damaging testimony former confidant written lying rat
We await results Mr Trumps Mr Kims negotiations We hope edifying House hearings
Oh India Pakistan possessed nuclear weapons engaged escalating hostilities including downing two Indian warplanes Wednesday
This world live
On Capitol Hill committee Republicans waste time disputing Mr Cohens characterization Mr Trump racist con man cheat At one point Representative Mark Meadows asked Lynne Patton AfricanAmerican woman worked Trump family party planner serves administration stand behind citing proof president possibly racist Thats substantive pushback got
Instead Republicans stuck discrediting vivisecting witness Member member detailed Mr Cohens financial fraud tax evasion professional disloyalty course previous lies Congress The committees ranking Republican Jim Jordan highdudgeon dangerously overcaffeinated seemed particularly troubled origins authenticity Twitter account Women Cohen pushed ridiculous flattery Mr Cohens manliness sexy handsome
Message Mr Cohen liar swindler narcissist felon fool would listen Multiple Republicans fact went length disgrace Democrats provided platform scoundrel
While quibbling details Mr Cohen disagree Republicans critique Early often acknowledged done bad things soon would spending time prison He however one point feel moved observe Mr Jordan
I find interesting sir colleagues one question far asked President Trump Thats actually I thought I coming today
Aware credibility problems Mr Cohen showed hard proof Trumpian misdeeds personal check president allegedly used reimburse Mr Cohen payment Stormy Daniels evidence Mr Trump arranged portrait purchased charity auction straw buyer repaid Mr Trumps charitable foundation letters Mr Trump instructed Mr Cohen write warning presidents high school colleges College Board release grades test scores without permission
Mr Cohen noted threatening people Mr Trumps behalf integral part job estimating decade called upon around 500 times
The whole dreary spectacle produced fresh tidbits Mr Cohens claim Mr Trump year term explicitly directed lie presidents involvement hushmoney scheme none seem likely alter competing narratives pushed presidents critics allies Alexandria OcasioCortez Democrats star freshman laid groundwork demanding presidents tax returns issuing future subpoenas Trump lackeys Mr Cohen suggested federal prosecutors New York investigating asyetunrevealed Trumpian crimes He also ominously fretted I fear loses election 2020 never peaceful transition power
Mr Cohen said working Mr Trump intoxicating But something changed Mr Cohens performance likely first many soulbarings play hearing rooms courtrooms coming months
I regret day I said yes Mr Trump said I regret help support I gave along way
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
letters
Readers discuss Mr Cohens credibility critique questioners
To Editor
Re Cohen Accuses Trump Lies CoverUps front page Feb 28
The political theater display Wednesdays hearing revealed much state country character deeds Michael Cohen Donald Trump It wrenching hardtoswallow exposé polarizing blasé political legal cultural climate allowed likes Michael Cohen operate thrive long Mr Trumps personal fixer intimidator enabler We beginning see consequences
We see meaningful correction country whole willing deal root causes pervasive dysfunction
Angel Kozeli MozinaBoston
To Editor
Michael Cohens credibility rests corroborating documentation brought His portrait president matches perfectly everything know man oratory actions tweets
Peter ClothierLaguna Beach Calif
To Editor
Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez put colleagues shame She demonstrated hearing entail Be prepared ask factual questions listen The rest committee members lot learn
Kay DormanLong Beach Township NJ
To Editor
Re Republican Offers Appointee Living Proof Trumps No Racist news article Feb 28
Representative Mark Meadows ashamed best friends black stunt former Trump Organization employee black appear hearing The mere fact thinks thats probative issue racism demonstrates doesnt get
Lawrence WeismanWestport Conn
To Editor
I know live age facts alternative facts news fake news Michael Cohens testimony lies somewhere mans land myth reality It poorly scripted badly acted effort look sincere time settling scores Shakespeare right It tale full sound fury signifying nothing
Bernard F DickTeaneck NJ
To Editor
As I listened Representative Elijah Cummingss closing remarks I could imagine comments coming previous Republican chairmen Oversight Committee likes Trey Gowdy Darrell Issa Jason Chaffetz So imbued grace remarks Mr Cummings devoid polish signs preparation piercing haunting cry better America stood stark difference party Donald Trump whose members demonstrated could evince belligerent snark ad hominem attacks utter lack concern truth
Jack SwansonIrvine Calif
To Editor
Despite ranting raving pounding table Republican members House Oversight Committee implied agreement everything Michael Cohen said questioning facts
Its great see parties agreement
Jon MeyersonBeverly MeyersonSarasota Fla
To Editor
President Trumps signature 35000 check points possibly committed crime office The thing hush money scheme likely crime got office Had Stormy Daniels scandal hushed theres good chance would lost election That takes possible crime whole new level Its old campaign finance violation
Vicki Riba KoestlerAlexandria Va
To Editor
The irony Republican representatives trying smear Michael Cohen testimony quoting newspaper articles fake media rich The media fake theyre How convenient
Susan M BrantingColumbia Md
To Editor
I delighted see vigorous insistence truthtelling Republican members House Oversight Committee questioning Michael Cohen Maybe get used
Alan GotthelfNew York
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Too many representatives chose bloviate instead interrogate except one
By Caroline Fredrickson
Ms Fredrickson president American Constitution Society
On Wednesday Michael Cohen President Trumps onetime personal lawyer fixer testified front House Oversight Reform Committee says variety shady practices participated working president People around country awaited riveting testimony going far join watch parties bars
But like many congressional hearings fireworks quick flame Even tantalizing opportunity grill Mr Cohen myriad ways former boss likely sought evade law avoid creditors many members committee parties could resist usual grandstanding
Consider line questioning Alexandria OcasioCortez New York She asked Mr Cohen series specific questions Mr Trump handled insurance claims whether provided accurate information various companies To knowledge asked Donald Trump ever provide inflated assets insurance company He
She asked whether Mr Trump tried reduce local taxes undervaluing assets Mr Cohen confirmed president also done You deflate value asset put request tax department deduction Mr Cohen said explaining practice These sort questions answers committee supposed elicit Somehow newer members got memo
Get personal less conventional take political developments newsmakers cultural milestones Frank Brunis weekly newsletter
Ms OcasioCortez continued asking Do think need review financial statements tax returns order compare She pressed Mr Cohen names others would able corroborate testimony provide documents support charges In response Mr Cohen listed executives Allen Weisselberg Ron Lieberman Matthew Calamari names thanks part Ms OcasioCortez probably hear coming months
These questions random rather well thought Like good prosecutor Ms OcasioCortez establishing factual basis committee investigation She asked one question time avoided longwinded speeches asking question listened carefully answer gave basis followup inquiry As result Mr Cohen gave specific answers Mr Trumps shady practices along road map find Mr Cohen began testimony calling Mr Trump con man cheat In five minutes Ms OcasioCortez actually helped lay facts substantiate charges
Unfortunately colleagues followed suit In testimony Mr Cohen claimed numerous ethical breaches criminal acts part president many Mr Cohen apparently served main actor He spoke illegal campaign payoffs rigging electoral polls threatening people crossed president possible witness tampering even falsifying financial records He spoke conduct office would cross even generous reading ethical legal boundaries
All areas offered fruitful avenues exploration But instead asking probing questions eliciting damning evidence Mr Cohen many committee members chose make speech Jeffrey Toobin The New Yorker tweeted frustration Bipartisan incompetence questioning cohen hearing All make speeches fail listen answers follow He tweeted sample followup questions hoping desperately someone might try He give credit several members understand art questioning including Representatives Katie Hill Jackie Speier But shocking members actually understand basic function hearing chose ignore collective goals favor showboating
As someone worked Hill nonprofit advocate I accustomed frustration opportunities lost questions asked witnesses allowed get away without really answering question Often stakes low cost great
But Committee Chairman Elijah Cummingss outstanding closing remarks made clear face nation consequential president faces multiple inquiries possible collusion foreign power need members Congress Ms OcasioCortez many followers social media I hope colleagues start follow example hearing room
Caroline Fredrickson crfredrickson president American Constitution Society author Under Bus How Working Women Are Being Run Over forthcoming The Democracy Fix How Win Fight Fair Rules Fair Courts Fair Elections
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement












Paul Manaforts Trail Scandals
My Dead Dads Porno Tapes
Ten Meter Tower
Between Sound Silence
Coal Miner Trump Coal Mining Isnt Coming Back
House Tour Cary Leibowitz
Sanctuary City Hotline
2011 Arab Spring
Can The President Be Impeached We Answer Your Questions
Calving Season
Michael D Cohen former lawyer fixer President Donald J Trump took stand Wednesday February 27 2019 testify publicly Mr Trump House Oversight Committee
This part destiny Cummings tells Cohen
I want point single questioner Democratled House asked Cohen relationship Sean Hannity described legal client court New York
Ooh good point Maggie
What day
And Cummings brings gavel hearing close
Cohen back Capitol Hill tomorrow testifying behind closed doors House intelligence committee
This astonishing day congress one without precedent Cummings gave Cohen powerful cinematic final statement cap said Cohen swarmed people middle hearing room tries exit
I agree Maggie We grown accustomed since Trump came national stage extraordinary political moments Even context today sure feels like one Michael Cohen one Trumps closest aides rebuked oath Congress warned threat American democracy implicated sitting president criminal activity campaign office
A forceful closing statement Chairman Cummings call action We Got Get Back Normal This hearing adjourned
There going days debate Cohen said His comments Donald Trump Jr dismissed presidents allies aides His comments Roger Stone Wikileaks objected Stone Trump interview weeks ago But checks Cohen brought indisputable
And checks reimbursements hush money signed president son chief financial officer company
Cohen painted picture line mob boss US president
And Republicans doubt landed blows Cohen I sure undercut enough negate evidence concrete elements testimony
I agree Nick
I hope folks check Peter Bakers Nicks story day find
wwwnytimescom20190227uspoliticsmichaelcohentestifiestr
Thanks reading along folks Not sure next time quite like hope see
This key aspect Cohens testimony Trump lawyer
Statement Jay Sekulow Counsel President
Todays testimony Michael Cohen attorneys President edited changed statement Congress alter duration Trump Tower Moscow negotiations completely false
And really signing Thanks folks
Advertisement
Supported
It apparently legal presidents soninlaw serve top White House adviser But grant immunity
By The Editorial Board
The editorial board represents opinions board editor publisher It separate newsroom OpEd section
For President Trump era congressional oversight shaping family affair three eldest children Donald Jr Ivanka Eric risk getting swept multiple investigations But none Trump clan may face thorough goingover Jared Kushner presidents soninlaw top White House adviser
Mr Kushner week among long list Trumpworld intimates asked provide documents House Judiciary Committee looks possible presidential misdeeds
This request landed continuing tussle heating Mr Kushner House Oversight Reform Committee examining claims Mr Trump arranged soninlaw granted topsecret security clearance objections intelligence officials
In cases White House signaled intent defy Congress arguing executive privilege legislative overreach On Monday White House counsel Pat Cipollone sent letter oversight committee chairman Elijah Cummings rebuffing request effectively daring start issuing subpoenas Mr Cummings said would confer colleagues determine comes next
However Democrats proceed Mr Kushners peculiar role fatherinlaws White House prompted widespread concern broader specific generic questions accountability competence often raised raw nepotism
Unease Mr Kushners access secret information appears go beyond politics Mr Trumps intelligence officials said balked idea giving soninlaw access Donald McGahn stint White House counsel
Mr Trump overrode advice ordered Mr Kushners clearance granted last May
These casual offhand objections After president made decision Mr McGahn reportedly troubled wrote internal memo detailing concerns Mr Kushner including CIA making clear recommended move
John Kelly time White House chief staff said felt similarly moved write memo stating explicitly ordered president grant Mr Kushners clearance
If true yet another point Mr Trump misled public insisting January played role arranging soninlaws clearance Just last month Ivanka Trump made similar claim asserting father involvement pertaining clearance husbands clearance zero
Those untruths nowhere near troubling fact intelligence administration officials reportedly loath grant Mr Kushner access governments deepest secrets
What CIAs specific hesitation concerning Mr Kushner topsecret information Why agency continue deny access sensitive compartmentalized information Why FBI raise questions foreign influence Mr Kushner
As The Times reported last month
The full scope intelligence officials concerns Mr Kushner known But clearance held part questions FBI CIA foreign business contacts including related Israel United Arab Emirates Russia according multiple people familiar events
Mr Kushners inaccurate statements FBI foreign interactions cause additional concern
And many many eyebrows raised Mr Kushners special friendship Mohammed bin Salman crown prince Saudi Arabia coziness strategically aggressively cultivated Saudis Out fear Mr Kushner naïve ways diplomacy foreign affairs susceptible manipulation prince Mr Kelly attempted curtail two mens private talks reinstating requirement National Security Council officials participate calls foreign leaders
No matter Mr Kushner Prince Mohammeds bond grew even withstanding conclusion American intelligence agencies prince ordered torture murder journalist Jamal Khashoggi Amid global outrage killing Mr Kushner among princes fiercest defenders
Mr Kushner lowlevel White House functionary He charged bringing peace Middle East presidents star emissary Saudi government The public compelling interest knowing made intelligence community nervous
Putting member presidents family investigatory hot seat delicate business Voters get squeamish watching politicians wife daughter soninlaw field tough questions Thats excuse letting avoid accountability
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Theyve got better things Dripping Springs
By Gail Collins
Opinion Columnist
So Michael Cohen started testimony declaring president United States racist con man cheat The Republicans supposed grilling responded saying um
Well mainly complained hearing happening I appalled We could focused actual issues facing America like border security
Nobody jumped yelled A racist How dare call man racist To fair one Republican committee member demur brought black government appointee stand look diverse
But couldnt say lot expressions shock Nobody announced good authority checks Cohen got Trump reimbursements Stormy Daniels payoff rather anonymous donations orphanage
The Republicans simply argued whole thing dumb waste time
I talked beautiful wife back Dripping Springs Tex hearing I said Dont bother watching said Representative Chip Roy
The hearing House Oversight Committee course new Democratic control Cohen showed members 35000 check said president gave partial repayment Stormy Daniels payoff
Nothing better evidence exhibit But public inured Trump scandals theres almost way raise new excitement Stormys sexwiththefuturepresident story Unless Cohen could demonstrated thenboss wrote hush money check memo
Nevertheless always new things learned
For instance Cohen testified Donald Trump Jrs role payoff deal In passing said president thought son worst judgment anyone world
Wonder Junior reacted This presumably Ivanka whos supposed bright one family denounced idea guaranteed minimum wage felt Americans want work get
Cohen claimed years serving Trumps hatchet man never heard boss say anything private led believe loved nation wanted make better
That could cue Republicans offer multitude examples contrary But part got one white male representative another announcing Cohen ignored hes due go prison lying
Almost everybody knows Donald Trump appears going prison lying Or awaiting sentencing lying Or facing charges lying If Donald Trump intimate federal authorities come calling careful tell truth Or move Papua New Guinea
Even jaded Trump watcher parts Cohen testimony worth discussing For instance said Trump threatened legal action make sure old high school colleges College Board kept grades SAT score secret
Certainly surprise Trump doesnt want publicize details academic career But still great question keep harping drive completely nuts Maybe every day House Democrats could make speech floor And introduce C student sense humor could announce hes proud following presidential footsteps intellectual mediocrity
Cohen testified Trump going back forth Forbes magazine attempt get good spot Wealthiest list While simultaneously trying push income reported tax purposes Lets hope Democrats use another lever get hands tax returns Truly would development even better calling Donald Jr testify role Cohen payments fathers assessment judgment
We certainly know Cohen perfect After spent 12 years Trumps lawyer Representative Jim Jordan top Republican committee even brought Women Cohen account put promote littleknown role sex symbol
But Cohen made pretty good witness looking appropriately miserable answering questions convincingly balance He told lawmakers rumors mystery tape showing Trump hitting wife elevator untrue opinion thats something would On hand said Trump make call Melania lie Stormy Daniels unpleasantness
While going president Asia dining Kim Jongun North Korea Previous negotiations Kim produced monster publicity little way nuclear disarmament
Nevertheless Trump seems believe may get Nobel Peace Prize He really seems want lot Maybe Nobel committee offered trade tax returns
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Gail Collins OpEd columnist former member editorial board first woman serve Times editorial page editor 2001 2007 GailCollins Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos
WASHINGTON The chairman House Oversight Reform Committee revealed information Thursday said showed Ivanka Trump Jared Kushner used private messaging services official White House business way may violated federal records laws
The chairman Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland said lawyer Ms Trump President Trumps daughter Mr Kushner presidents soninlaw senior adviser told committee late last year addition private email account Mr Kushner uses unofficial encrypted messaging service WhatsApp official White House business including foreign contacts
Mr Cummings said lawyer Abbe Lowell also told lawmakers Ms Trump preserve emails sent private account reply
Democrats barely able contain frustration see dark irony findings earlier news reports couples use private email accounts Mr Trump made Hillary Clintons use private email server secretary state central line attack 2016 campaign president Even FBI declined charge Mrs Clinton practices handling classified information Republicans Congress continued pick away case
Update The use private email chats time Trumps family comes fire
Mr Lowell could say Mr Kushner communicated classified information messaging service WhatsApp telling lawmakers pay grade He asserted Mr Kushner took screenshots communications sent official White House account National Security Council client violation federal records laws
In letter Thursday disclosing new information Mr Cummings said findings added urgency investigation possible violations Presidential Records Act members Trump administration including Mr Kushner Ms Trump He accused White House stonewalling committee information requested months ago Republicans still controlled House
The White Houses failure provide documents information obstructing committees investigation allegations violations federal records laws White House officials Mr Cummings wrote He said would forced consider alternative means obtain compliance documents requested White House communications record keeping shared committee indication could subpoena
Steven Groves White House lawyer said White House would review Mr Cummingss letter provide reasonable response due course
Mr Lowell letter accused Mr Cummings misrepresenting parts told lawmakers last year disputed suggestions either clients broken law
The oversight committee first began scrutinizing use private communications services White House 2017 amid news reports Mr Kushner used private email account government business Ms Trump done
Mr Kushners use WhatsApp also reported earlier least one instance scope previously known CNN reported October Mr Kushner communicated Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman de facto leader Saudi Arabia using WhatsApp
Mr Lowell confirmed details Mr Kushners private messaging use though communications Prince Mohammed meeting December Mr Cummings committees chairman time Representative Trey Gowdy Republican South Carolina Asked Mr Kushner cleared use messaging app communicate foreign leaders Mr Lowell recommended lawmakers ask National Security Council White House Mr Cummings said
On Thursday Mr Lowell said contrary Mr Cummingss letter asserted confirmed presidents soninlaw communicating WhatsApp foreign leaders merely messaged people More broadly Mr Lowell said told lawmakers privy many details Mr Kushners use WhatsApp instructing question White House counsel
Mr Lowell also took issue Mr Cummingss account said Ms Trump
In letter Mr Cummings said speaking Mr Lowell believed Ms Trump could also potentially violation Presidential Records Act use private email account Specifically said Mr Lowell told committee although Ms Trump forwards workrelated emails received personal account official government account responds message
Mr Lowell though said oversimplifying response In exchange highlighted chairman referring Ms Trumps practices September 2017 said Since said always forwards official business White House account
Mr Cummingss committee separately investigating circumstances Mr Kushner Ms Trump administration officials received security clearances The New York Times reported last month Mr Trump personally intervened secure topsecret clearance Mr Kushner despite legal national security concerns raised advisers
Mr Kushner Ms Trump appear current former White House officials Mr Cummingss sights personal email use He wrote Thursday also obtained documents apparently showing K T McFarland used personal AOL account official business served deputy national security adviser Stephen K Bannon done White House adviser
Mr Cummings set April 4 deadline White House comply latest requests To extent though remains seen
The White House generally resistant far satisfy requests House Democrats
On Thursday White House counsel Pat Cipollone rejected another request Mr Cummings chairmen Intelligence Foreign Affairs committees information Mr Trumps private communications President Vladimir V Putin Russia In letter said Constitution courts granted president broad authority conduct foreign policy presidents parties rightly fought protect communications foreign leaders
While respectfully seek accommodate appropriate oversight requests unaware precedent supporting sweeping requests Mr Cipollone wrote
Maggie Haberman contributed reporting
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maggie Haberman Annie Karni
WASHINGTON In waning days 2016 presidential campaign Donald J Trump turned focus FBI investigation Hillary Clintons use private email server secretary state suggesting bigger Watergate
Her criminal action willful deliberate intentional purposeful said rally Phoenix Hillary set illegal server obvious purpose shielding criminal conduct public disclosure exposure knowing full well actions put national security risk
Democrats charge Mr Trumps eldest daughter husband serve aides president things pilloried Mrs Clinton
The basis accusations letter Rep Elijah E Cummings chairman House Oversight Reform Committee sent Thursday Pat Cipollone White House counsel saying Jared Kushner presidents soninlaw senior adviser used WhatsApp unofficial encrypted messaging service communicate foreign contacts official White House business
Mr Cummings also said Ivanka Trump presidents eldest daughter preserve emails sent private account claimed past contradicting previous claims possibly violating federal records laws
It first time questions raised Ms Trump Mr Kushner used private communications government roles Both used personal email accounts communicate White House officials cabinet secretaries official business But irony new accusations savored Mrs Clintons former aides
For endless faults Jared least know chutzpah means said Philippe Reines top adviser Mrs Clinton referring Yiddish word meaning gall
And theres specific Yiddish word continuing practice even Democrats took control House mashugana fits Mr Reines said referring word meaning crazy
Mr Cummings based findings Ms Trump Mr Kushner committee told couples lawyer Abbe Lowell But Mr Lowell insisted letter committee Mr Cummings twisting statements said claimed
A spokeswoman committee said confident facts described Mr Lowell would like produce documents aid investigation committee open receiving information
Republican members House Oversight Committee attended meeting Mr Lowell said internal memo late Friday Mr Cummingss letter falsely maligned Ms Trump Mr Kushner They said misconstrued mischaracterized Mr Lowell said In recollections said Mr Lowell described governmentrelated emails minimal said preserved said classified material sent
And rejected comparisons Mrs Clinton saying set private server specifically evade records requests
Ms Trump Mr Kushner past insisted equivalency Mrs Clintons use private email server served secretary state use private email accounts conduct government affairs
Everythings preserved everythings archived equivalency two things Ms Trump said interview Good Morning America last year initial reports used personal email account government work
But Mr Cummingss letter suggested reason believe case
The disclosures Mr Kushners Ms Trumps methods communication raise questions whether violated federal law preserving communications whether shared classified information nongovernment accounts kinds charges Mr Trump thought disqualified 2016 opponent enough put jail
The serious issue may much violation Presidential Records Act reason decision circumvent said Robert F Bauer served White House counsel former President Barack Obama That red flag
A White House official insisted Mr Kushner Ms Trump never improperly handled classified material
In past Ms Trump Mr Kushner claimed familiar rules applied Yet current former White House officials familiar guidance aides given said two given ample warning That includes warnings using chat apps supposed prohibited government business
The couple continued balk notion similarities circumstances Mrs Clintons There differences also lot equivalencies according lawyer familiar federal record keeping
Mrs Clintons case occurred Federal Records Act regulations promulgated State Department Mr Kushner Ms Trumps case contrast concerns Presidential Records Act passed 1978 Watergate scandal declares presidential records public property The important thing according attorneys prohibit destruction records described private
Mr Lowell said time know Mr Kushner communicated classified information messaging service WhatsApp telling lawmakers pay grade He argued Mr Kushner took screenshots communications sent official White House account National Security Council therefore violated federal records laws
But Mrs Clintons former aides said willing give Mr Kushner particular benefit doubt
WhatsApp two main uses youre trying save international data charges youre trying hide communications circumvent law said Nick Merrill spokesman Mrs Clinton I think pretty clear appeals Jared Kushner
Brian Fallon served Mrs Clintons press secretary 2016 campaign said thought Kushner lying lawyers purposes navigating tricky PR situation The idea faithfully took screenshots probably bogus
Mr Fallon also served Justice Department spokesman Obama administration said Congress could ask Facebook proof Mr Kushner took screenshots messages White House could also investigate whether screen grabs exist servers
This something country take Jared Kushner lawyers words said
The former Clinton aides also cited Mr Kushners omission dozens meetings foreign leaders including Russian contacts forms required gain topsecret security clearance omission lawyer time called clerical error And Mr Lowell statement implied someone White House misled claimed Mr Trump intervene grant clearance although specify
An earlier version article referred incorrectly timing appearance Ivanka Trump made Good Morning America The appearance came shortly reports Ms Trump used personal email account government work unrelated reports Hillary Clinton
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
My appearance Congress helped take president Will thing happen Trump
By John W Dean
Mr Dean White House counsel Richard Nixon
There several parallels testimony Congress 1973 President Richard Nixon White House Michael Cohens testimony week President Trump business practices Setting aside differences regarding got found speaking Congress multiple open closed venues criminal conduct sitting president United States This pleasant place particularly given presidents involved
There differences Unlike Mr Cohen testified public day I testified five days His prepared statement 4000 words mine 60000 words Nielsen reports 16 million people watched testimony I told 80 million people watched part mine
Polls varied widely testimony One said 50 percent Americans believed 30 percent 20 percent sure Another poll 38 percent believing president denied statement 37 percent believing The instant polls Mr Cohens testimony vary party affiliation case polls But 35 percent found credible I believe number grow
While testimony eventually corroborated secret recordings conversations made Mr Nixon witnesses made difference I surprised number people surfaced support account The I suspect happen Michael Cohen The Mafias code omertà force public service I heard one Roger Stone say go jail Donald Trump
Mr Cohen understand Mr Trump removed office defeated 2020 part testimony reminded rest life He blamed Republicans appreciated Democrats If achieves anything short discovering cure cancer always live pigeonhole How I know I still dealing
Just Mr Nixon admirers apologists Mr Trump Some people forever rewriting history try rewrite Mr Cohens expense They put words mouth never spoke They place events wasnt present locations never Some tried rewriting life rewrite
I thinking people like Mr Stone longtime Trump associate worked 1972 Nixon campaign admires former president tattoo mans likeness shoulder blades Mr Stone I never met White House indicted part inquiry special counsel Robert Mueller charges lying Congress efforts contact WikiLeaks 2016 presidential campaign
He prides political dirty trickster never met conspiracy theory believe Mr Cohen sure Mr Stone promote new conspiracy theories defend Mr Trump even means rewriting history Presidential scandals tend attract remarkable number dishonest historians
There one overarching similarity Mr Cohen I share He came understand reject Mr Trump I Mr Nixon
Mr Nixon first called regarding Watergate eight months arrests reelection committee operatives Watergate We 37 conversations I felt I confidence I tried failed get end coverup The day I told Mr Nixon cancer presidency day I met real Nixon I knew I break rank
Mr Cohen likewise come see Mr Trump true nature At end testimony House Oversight Committee sought permission read closing statement
He thanked members accepted responsibility bad behavior He told legislators Given experience working Mr Trump I fear loses election 2020 never peaceful transition power I agreed appear today This troubling actually chilling thing said five hours committee
Since Mr Cohens warning came closing words opportunity committee members ask followup questions So I doublechecked lawyer Lanny Davis I understood Mr Cohens testimony correctly Mr Davis responded He referring Trumps authoritarian mindset lack respect democracy democratic institutions
Indeed similar Mr Cohens testimony challenged authoritarian presidents United States revealing lies abuses power Mr Trump first authoritarian president since Mr Nixon neither supporters play fair Mr Cohen dealing people rest life
In fact Americans affected growing authoritarianism made Mr Trump president These people facilitated rise remain long Mr Trump gone We need pay attention
John W Dean served White House counsel Richard Nixon author Conservatives Without Conscience revising discuss Donald Trump followers collaboration Bob Altemeyer retired professor psychology University Manitoba leading expert authoritarianism
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Peter Baker Nicholas Fandos
WASHINGTON President Trumps longtime lawyer fixer accused Wednesday expansive pattern lies criminality offering damning portrayal life inside presidents orbit said advisers sacrificed integrity proximity power
Michael D Cohen represented Mr Trump decade laid Congress first time series deceptions president He charged Mr Trump lied public business interests Russia lied reporters stolen Democratic emails told Mr Cohen lie hush payments cover sexual misconduct
The accusations aired daylong hearing House Oversight Reform Committee exposed dark underside Mr Trumps business political worlds voice one ultimate insiders Perhaps close associate turned president front Congress dramatic fashion high stakes since John Dean testified President Richard M Nixon Watergate scandal
He racist He con man And cheat Mr Cohen said president Mr Cohen pleaded guilty lying oath Congress among crimes said protect Mr Trump I protecting Mr Trump anymore said
While details different portrait president broadly resembles provided others split Mr Trump including former aides business associates even onetime ghostwriter likewise described president bullies dissembles cheats serve interests
Donald Trump inflated value assets documents given Deutsche Bank Michael Cohen testified
But remained unclear whether Mr Cohens testimony would change political dynamics series scandals already polarized Washington country could lead impeachment battle year Representative Elijah E Cummings Democrat Maryland committee chairman said afterward Mr Trump may committed crime office Republicans unmoved
Assailing Mr Cohen proven liar denounced hearing charade embarrassment country orchestrated partisan Democrats seeking pretext try remove Mr Trump office Democrats said Republicans ran away truth sought defend corrupt president employed textbook mob tactics
Michael D Cohen former lawyer fixer President Donald J Trump took stand Wednesday morning testify publicly Mr Trump House Oversight Committee
The hearing took place president halfway around world Vietnam meeting North Koreas leader His family advisers expressed anger timing arguing Democrats undercutting Mr Trump sensitive nuclear diplomacy political gain
As many moments Trump era hearing seemed much partisan theater factfinding Democrats Republicans set forth conflicting narratives man served Mr Trump either duplicitous disgruntled former employee fallen sinner trying redeem coming clean
Through sat Mr Cohen 52 dark circles puffy eyes already tired eight hours testimony behind closed doors day awaiting threeyear prison term begins spring Apologizing repeatedly family Mr Cohen portrayed broken man brought hubris one point choking wiping tears eyes mention effect daughter
Through five hours nationally televised testimony Mr Cohen described years working Mr Trump trip world deceit nowdisbarred lawyer ignored conscience get close magnetic person power
Sitting today seems unbelievable I mesmerized Donald Trump I willing things I knew absolutely wrong Mr Cohen said When met Mr Trump knew real estate giant icon center action Being around Mr Trump intoxicating said
In private business Mr Cohen said rationalized Mr Trumps dishonesty trivial president said I consider significant dangerous
The presidents reelection campaign organization dismissed Mr Cohen Wednesday convicted perjurer trusted This Michael Cohen admitted lied Congress previously Kayleigh McEnany campaigns national press secretary said statement Why even bother swear time
Republicans committee aggressively challenged Mr Cohen along lines Representative Jim Jordan Ohio ranking Republican called Mr Cohen fraudster cheat convicted felon two months federal inmate
Mr Jordan questioned Mr Cohens motives assailing Mr Trumps character actions suggesting former lawyer embittered new president bring Washington
You wanted work White House Mr Jordan said
No sir Mr Cohen replied
didnt get brought dance
I want go White House Mr Cohen asserted
Eric Trump one presidents sons took issue Twitter Michael lobbying EVERYONE Chief Staff wrote It biggest joke campaign around office Did perjure
The hearing drew enormous interest Capitol Hill Democrats last month took control House pressure liberal base take Mr Trump The crowds huge sense drama palpable Lawmakers parties listened raptly Mr Cohens 30minute opening statement
Mr Cohen laid series actions Mr Trump bolster previous accusations news stories presenting documents corroborate account including copies checks issued president trust said reimbursements 130000 hush payments Mr Cohen made Stormy Daniels pornographic film actress alleged affair Mr Trump
Mr Cohen said Mr Trump candidate initiated hush payment plan president arranged 11 checks reimbursing lawyer part criminal scheme violate campaign finance laws crime Mr Cohen pleaded guilty
After news reports payments February 2018 Mr Cohen told lawmakers president called told say Mr Trump knowledgeable reimbursements wasnt knowledgeable Mr Cohens actions Mr Trump later told reporters know
Mr Trumps signature 35000 check Mr Cohen however appeared contradict Asked later reporters meant Mr Trump committed crime office Mr Cummings said Based looking checks listening Mr Cohen appears
Mr Trump likewise report debt Mr Cohen annual financial disclosure statement 2017 report paying 2018 form
Mr Cohen told lawmakers Mr Trump personally monitored negotiations build Trump Tower Moscow asking least halfdozen times January June 2016 even running president
Mr Trump knew directed Trump Moscow negotiations throughout campaign lied Mr Cohen said He lied never expected win He also lied stood make hundreds millions dollars Moscow real estate project
In previous testimony prosecution Mr Cohen lied Congress saying negotiations ended January 2016 Mr Trump explicitly instruct lie Congress Mr Cohen said actions made clear wanted lie presidents lawyers reviewed even edited Mr Cohens false statement Congress
Mr Cohen said direct evidence Mr Trump campaign colluded Russia But added I suspicions
He pointed June 2016 meeting Trump Tower Donald Trump Jr candidates eldest son Jared Kushner soninlaw Paul Manafort campaign chairman met visiting Russians told dirt Hillary Clinton Russian government
transcript
Hosted Michael Barbaro produced Rachel Quester Alexandra Leigh Young Theo Balcomb edited Lisa Tobin
In extraordinary public hearing Donald Trumps former fixer known unflinchingly loyal became star witness
michael barbaro
From The New York Times Im Michael Barbaro This The Daily Today Michael Cohen headed prison lying behalf Donald Trump Yesterday told Congress hes done protecting president Its Thursday February 28 Maggie Haberman hearing actually begin Wednesday morning
maggie haberman
The hearing began dramatic fashion Elijah Cummings chairs committee Democrat holding gavel Michael Cohen walking crush photographers reporters trailed Lanny Davis attorney sometimes spokesman trailed another attorneys member family I believe worried attending hearing He sat His face wan His eyes puffy He looked exhausted defeated beaten And could hear pin drop sat
archived recording elijah cummings
The committee come order
maggie haberman
So Cummings gate
archived recording elijah cummings
I recognize five minutes give opening statement
maggie haberman
addressed issue Michael Cohens credibility
archived recording elijah cummings
He admitted lying actions protect president Some certainly ask Mr Cohen lying believe
archived recording
Good question
archived recording elijah cummings
This legitimate question
maggie haberman
It clear Republicans going go right Cohen accusing liar somebody admitted lying including admitting lying Congress gave testimony 2017 So Cummings hoping put bed outset
archived recording elijah cummings
This important factor need weigh But must weigh must hear
michael barbaro
And Maggie I found fascinating Cummings close opening statement He delivers message straight Cohen
archived recording elijah cummings
Martin Luther King Mr Cohen said words I leave today testify He said faith taking first step even cant see whole staircase There comes time silence becomes betrayal Our lives begin end day become silent things truly matter In end says remember words enemies silence friends
maggie haberman
And quote hes trying set Michael Cohens testimony hes truthful said lie saying truth And important set way forward hearing began
archived recording elijah cummings
Raise right hand Do swear affirm testimony give whole truth nothing truth help God Let record show witness answered affirmative And thank may seated
maggie haberman
So Michael Cohen begins opening statement And long
archived recording michael cohen
I hope appearance today guilty plea work law enforcement agencies steps along path redemption restore faith help country understand president better
maggie haberman
And began apologizing lying Congress
archived recording michael cohen
I oath correct record answer committees questions truthfully offer American people I know President Trump
maggie haberman
And turned Donald Trump
archived recording michael cohen
I ashamed I chose take part concealing Mr Trumps illicit acts rather listening conscience I ashamed I know Mr Trump
maggie haberman
And depicted Donald Trump unsavory unethical immoral character
archived recording michael cohen
Mr Trump racist The country seen Mr Trump court white supremacists bigots You heard call poorer countries expletive In private even worse He asked I name country run black person wasnt expletive This Barack Obama president United States And driving struggling neighborhood Chicago commented black people could live way And told black people would never vote stupid
maggie haberman
Somebody told Oval Office Oval Office meeting would sending reimbursement hush money payments
archived recording michael cohen
Trump con man He asked pay adult film star affair lie wife I And lying first lady one biggest regrets
maggie haberman
He portrayed Donald Trump cheat
archived recording michael cohen
And come surprise one common responsibilities Mr Trump directed call business owners many small businesses owed money services told payment reduced payment would coming When I told Mr Trump success actually reveled
maggie haberman
As schemer would inflate net worth devalue depending useful various points
archived recording michael cohen
It experience Mr Trump inflated total assets served purposes trying listed amongst wealthiest people Forbes deflated assets reduce real estate taxes
maggie haberman
At one point Michael Cohen told detailed story Donald Trumps relationship Vietnam War Remember Donald Trump said deferment draft quote unquote bone spurs
archived recording michael cohen
But I asked medical records gave none said surgery He told answer specific questions reporters rather offer simply fact received medical deferment He finished conversation following comment Do think Im stupid Im going Vietnam
maggie haberman
And moment Michael Cohen looked directly camera
archived recording michael cohen
And I find ironic Mr President Vietnam right
michael barbaro
Right
maggie haberman
It damning stuff
archived recording michael cohen
A lot people asked whether Mr Trump knew release hacked documents Democratic National Committee emails ahead time And answer yes In July 2016 days Democratic Convention I Mr Trumps office secretary announced Roger Stone phone Mr Trump put Mr Stone speakerphone Mr Stone told Mr Trump gotten phone Julian Assange Mr Assange told Mr Stone within couple days would massive dump emails would damage Hillary Clintons campaign Mr Trump responded stating effect wouldnt great
michael barbaro
And brings course nowinfamous Moscow project
maggie haberman
Right
archived recording michael cohen
I lied Congress Mr Trump stopped negotiating Moscow tower project Russia I stated stopped negotiating January 2016 That false Our negotiations continued months later campaign
maggie haberman
He says know handful conversations went 2016 clear Donald Trump going Republican nominee
archived recording michael cohen
Mr Trump directly tell lie Congress Thats operates In conversations campaign time I actively negotiating Russia would look eye tell Theres Russian business go lie American people saying thing In way telling lie So clear Mr Trump knew directed Trump Moscow negotiations throughout campaign lied
michael barbaro
Cohens almost describing moment code Trump saying Russia project almost like saying theres Russia project right Youre never going say theres Russia project Its like hes trying explain foreign language Donald Trump communicating probably lie without say
maggie haberman
Thats exactly right And said testimony made clear Donald Trump talks He sort knows line doesnt speak overtly It former federal prosecutors described mob speak style mafia bosses speak avoid crossing legal line And Michael Cohen explicitly say part say Donald Trump spoke code Michael Cohen understood code
archived recording michael cohen
He doesnt give questions He doesnt give orders He speaks code And I understand code Ive around decade
michael barbaro
Maggie come surprise hear Michael Cohen saying Youve known men years And youve known unit What like hear Cohen saying things Donald Trump
maggie haberman
Even knowing coming mindblowing hearing Michael Cohen saying public No one worked Trump recent years gone record say things like And staggering And odds portrait fealty Michael Cohen presented reporters everyone toward Donald Trump decade
michael barbaro
Mmhmm
maggie haberman
And remember Donald Trump creates eagerness people around get something head pat get encouragement get attaboy Cohen got skilled trying attaboy
michael barbaro
And seemed kind addicted
maggie haberman
And seemed addicted seemed revel clearly reveled proximity
archived recording michael cohen
Over past year I done real soulsearching And I see ambition intoxication Trump power much bad decisions part I made
maggie haberman
He involved taking care messes Donald Trump wanted taken care He willing things One payoffs women And notion somebody closely involved would willing discuss publicly behind closed doors investigators prosecutors bearing freely public hearing oath breathtaking
michael barbaro
Theres moment Cohen says members committee
archived recording michael cohen
The last time I appeared Congress I came protect Mr Trump Today
michael barbaro
Today Im tell truth
archived recording michael cohen
I tell truth Mr Trump
michael barbaro
Mr Trump As say spell broken Im world And I kind wonder thats really possible also happened
maggie haberman
Well I think really possible I think break incredibly clean given happened Michael Cohen Remember FBI raided hotel apartment office April 2018 still standing Trump That clearly changed We saw Republicans argue reason changed Michael Cohen facing charges And president certainly suggested Cohen utterly stripped everything valued business law license He humiliated publicly He abandoned lot friends president presidents circle And I think certainly real split I think people going assess looking testimony whether think real conversion definitely real break
archived recording michael cohen
I perfect man I done things I proud And I live consequences actions rest life But today I get decide example I set children I attempt change history remember I may able change past I right American people today And I thank attention And Im happy answer committees questions
archived recording elijah cummings
Thank much Mr Cohen I recognize
michael barbaro
So questions begin committee members
maggie haberman
Right
archived recording elijah cummings
You said brought checks right
archived recording michael cohen
Yes sir
maggie haberman
And first Cummings asking Cohen elaborate details reimbursement checks got brought
archived recording elijah cummings
So let make sure I understand Donald Trump wrote check personal account serving president United States America reimburse hush money payments Ms Clifford telling American people today
archived recording michael cohen
Yes Mr Chairman
maggie haberman
And among dramatic moments saw Because Cummings getting fact sitting president part scheme minimum sleazy illicit maximum could criminal exposure And leaving nothing doubt Cohen saying took place
archived recording elijah cummings
Is doubt mind President Trump knew exactly paying
archived recording michael cohen
There doubt mind And I truly believe doubt minds people United States America
archived recording elijah cummings
With Ill yield
maggie haberman
Jim Jordan another ally president quoted something Michael Cohen said reporter The Daily Beast
archived recording jim jordan
I make sure I meet one day courthouse I take every penny still dont
maggie haberman
And become famous anecdote threatened reporter pursuing story old court claim divorce filing Ivana Trump Donald Trump alleged marital rape And Cohen said
archived recording jim jordan
And I come Daily Beast everybody else possibly know So Im warning
maggie haberman
So Im warning tread fing lightly wasnt fing
archived recording jim jordan
Because Im going going fing disgusting understand
maggie haberman
And asked Jim Jordan Mr Cohen said
archived recording jim jordan
Mr Cohen said
archived recording michael cohen
I
maggie haberman
And incident I think would say really Trump But way sully character create portrait thuggishness
archived recording jim jordan
And say Mr Cohen statement I read admitted saying protect Donald Trump
archived recording michael cohen
I protect Mr Trump Donald Trump Jr Ivanka Trump Eric Trump
michael barbaro
But I wonder look worse person person whose behalf done
maggie haberman
Right I understand Jim Jordan trying muddy Michael Cohen But I think people going look especially president takes Twitter suggests people ought looking Michael Cohens family I think people still going see looking worse Trump Michael Cohen Trumps lawyer
michael barbaro
So Republicans largely avoiding talking president costs hearing focusing sullying Cohens character reputation may actually sullying President Trumps
maggie haberman
Correct They essentially trying peel Cohen Trump And became clear efforts went throughout hearing impossible When somebody serve lawyer Donald Trump identified publicly 10 years cant take shot Cohen end ricochet onto Trump
archived recording
So weve established lie taxes lie banks convicted lying Congress It seems theres much wont lie stand gain
michael barbaro
And questions go
maggie haberman
So
archived recording
Everythings made lies past Im concerned lies today
maggie haberman
After became know
archived recording
But theres truth whatsoever
maggie haberman
one one line Republicans suggesting Michael Cohen
archived recording
Liar liar pants fire
maggie haberman
Really fame
archived recording
Is appearance today motivated desire remain spotlight personal benefit
archived recording michael cohen
No maam
maggie haberman
Or really money They asked
archived recording
Is book deal coming anything like
archived recording michael cohen
I book deal right
maggie haberman
One prospective book deals movie deals
archived recording
Isnt true tried sell book time President Trump entitled Trump Revolution From Tower White House Understanding Donald J Trump
archived recording michael cohen
Yes happened
maggie haberman
Or pitched book
michael barbaro
And say
maggie haberman
He said yes
archived recording michael cohen
I contacted many including television movie If want tell would like play Im happy write name
michael barbaro
And Democrats
archived recording elijah cummings
Mr Raskin
archived recording jamie raskin
Mr Cohen thank composure today Our colleagues upset lied Congress president Theyre upset youve stopped lying Congress president
maggie haberman
The Democrats tried keep really mostly Trump things Michael Cohen Trump
archived recording
And nothing Trump Organization ever done unless run President Donald Trump correct
archived recording michael cohen
Thats 100 percent certain
archived recording
OK
maggie haberman
He described really interesting described everybody solely devoted protecting brand reputation one man Donald Trump He said nothing happened company unless Donald Trump aware signed He argued Trump demanding exacting punishing boss He described entire effort maximizing goldplated version Donald Trump become familiar
archived recording
Theres recurring refrain testimony says yet I continued work But point changed What breaking point decided start telling truth
archived recording michael cohen
There several factors Helsinki Charlottesville
maggie haberman
He went litany moments said disgusted There presidents comments Charlottesville know various instance discourteous behavior president untoward behavior toward citizens
archived recording michael cohen
Watching daily destruction civility one another putting silly things like
archived recording
Oh thats silly
archived recording michael cohen
Really unbecoming Congress
maggie haberman
He clearly got angry And sort turned back Republicans said essentially
archived recording michael cohen
Its sort behavior Im responsible Im responsible silliness Because I thing youre 10 years I protected Mr Trump 10 years
maggie haberman
You I You blindly following And real risk could end like someday
archived recording michael cohen
And I warn people people follow Mr Trump I blindly going suffer consequences Im suffering
maggie haberman
It gripping captivating moment
michael barbaro
Right sort surprising level selfawareness I guess also selfloathing
maggie haberman
It It selfeffacing It clearly uncomfortable It acknowledging deeply imperfect person imperfect things proud said version earlier hearing But really striking comment Republicans opposed Donald Trump theyre many vocal anymore said repeatedly Republican Party become cult personality cult And people blindly follow along Donald Trump wants whether wise whether safe whether telling truth And Cohen getting
archived recording
What want children know
archived recording michael cohen
That Im sorry everything And Im sorry pain Ive caused And um I wish I could go back time
archived recording
Thank I yield back
archived recording elijah cummings
The gentleladys time expired
michael barbaro
Maggie I wonder feel like understand whats motivating Michael Cohen throughout hourslong hearing say hes saying concede hes conceding kind humble way Hes convicted crime Hes headed prison He disbarred What exactly animating point
maggie haberman
I think number things animating But I think among doesnt want leper story forever He said months ago want villain Trump story And I think thats feels I think want remembered footnote history I think hes going prison And I think doesnt whole lot left lose And I think would like try make people remember things tell nuanced tale
michael barbaro
And hearing mind achieve How hearing remembered larger story
maggie haberman
I think hearing either going breathtaking historical moment likes I dont know well ever see But pretty striking see Or going initial phases much broader deeper governmental investigation House Democrats Trump presidency personal activities activities government And allowing Michael Cohen setting talks things questioned key starting witness could first step paving way toward impeachment process Democrats go If ends leading something bigger Democrats feel key foundation But early say I think
archived recording michael cohen
I closing remarks I would like say Is appropriate time
archived recording elijah cummings
You
archived recording michael cohen
Thank
michael barbaro
Maggie one hearing finally come end
maggie haberman
Seven half hours Michael Cohen first entered room sitting pretty patiently questions losing temper given opportunity speak committee members president
archived recording michael cohen
In closing Id like say directly president honor veterans even rain You tell truth even doesnt aggrandize
maggie haberman
And used opportunity send message former boss saying dont need person
archived recording michael cohen
You take responsibility dirty deeds You dont use power bully pulpit destroy credibility speak You dont separate families one another demonize looking America better life You dont vilify people based God pray And dont cuddle adversaries expense allies
maggie haberman
And saying president I know saying members committee believe I say I understand man
archived recording michael cohen
So support president rhetoric I I pray country doesnt make mistakes I made pay heavy price family I paying And I thank much additional time Chairman
archived recording elijah cummings
Thank much
maggie haberman
And Michael Cohen done Elijah Cummings closed note grace toward Michael Cohen
archived recording elijah cummings
So wonder whether people believe I dont know I dont know whether believe But fact youve come head And got one hardest things could
maggie haberman
That moment Michael Cohen started crying And really hadnt done He clearly weeping
archived recording elijah cummings
I know face lot I know worried family But part destiny
maggie haberman
And Cummings basically told Cohen You heading toward light moment
archived recording elijah cummings
And hopefully portion destiny lead better better Michael Cohen better Donald Trump better United States America better world
michael barbaro
Maggie thank much We appreciate
maggie haberman
Michael thanks
archived recording elijah cummings
And got get back normal With meeting adjourned MUSIC PLAYING
michael barbaro
Well right back Heres else need know today On Wednesday Pakistan said shot two Indian fighter jets captured pilot one latest escalation hostilities two countries The attack heightening fears decadesold animosities India Pakistan could spiral war The latest episode began February 14th jihadis operating Pakistan killed 40 Indian soldiers prompting airstrikes India military response Pakistan
archived recording
NONENGLISH SPEECH Bomb blast victims INAUDIBLE
michael barbaro
In speech Wednesday prime minister Pakistan urged restraint citing two countries arsenals nuclear weapons saying quote All big wars due miscalculation My question India given weapons afford miscalculation
archived recording
NONENGLISH SPEECH
michael barbaro
And North Carolina Wednesday campaign operative center allegations election fraud McCrae Dallas arrested indicted handling absentee ballots 2016 2018 Dallas collected absentee ballots Republican congressional candidate Mark Harris last fall charged obstruction justice possession absentee ballots As result Dallas conduct North Carolina hold new election 9th congressional district Harris hired Dallas withdrawn race MUSIC PLAYING Thats The Daily Im Michael Barbaro See tomorrow
The president denied knowing meeting But Mr Cohen cast doubt saying Mr Trumps office one day June 2016 Donald Jr came went behind fathers desk speaking low voice said The meeting set The candidate said replied OK good Let know
Mr Cohen said might referred Russia meeting Mr Trump frequently told others son Don Jr worst judgment anyone world son would never set meeting significance alone certainly without checking father
Mr Cohen also recalled Mr Trumps office shortly Democratic National Convention 2016 Roger J Stone Jr longtime adviser called Mr Trump put speaker phone Mr Stone reported spoken Julian Assange founder WikiLeaks said within couple days would massive dump emails would damage Hillary Clintons campaign
In interview last month The New York Times Mr Trump denied speaking Mr Stone WikiLeaks emails Mr Assanges lawyer issued statement Wednesday disputing Mr Cohens account
The hearing left questions unanswered Democrats pledged press details Russia investigation Mr Cohen appears Thursday private interview House Intelligence Committee
Mr Cohen offered tantalizing hints come Asked last conversation Mr Trump said could answer investigated right federal prosecutors New York Asked knew wrongdoing crimes Mr Trump said Yes And part investigation
More generally Mr Cohen compared Mr Trump mobster inflated net worth public understating tax authorities rigged art auction using charitable foundation threatened got way
Mr Cohen estimated Mr Trump asked threaten someone perhaps 500 times 10 years berating nasty reporter warning lawsuits He provided letters wrote campaign Mr Trumps direction presidents high school colleges College Board threatening civil criminal action released grades SAT scores
Mr Trump run president make country great according Mr Cohen instead calling campaign greatest infomercial political history business He never expected win primary said He never expected win general election The campaign always marketing opportunity But Mr Cohen said fears Mr Trump loses reelection next year never peaceful transition power
The former lawyer also described racist comments Mr Trump asked could name country run black person wasnt shithole driving struggling neighborhood remarked AfricanAmericans could live way He told black people would never vote stupid Mr Cohen said
Except one Trump skeptic Republicans ask presidents conduct matter offer sustained defense Mr Trump Instead pressed argument Mr Cohen believed They argued lied even signing committee form disclose work bank Kazakhstan
Youre pathological liar charged Representative Paul Gosar Arizona
Are referring president Mr Cohen retorted
Mr Cohen suggested Republicans falling trap trading honor president deserve
I thing youre 10 years said I protected Mr Trump 10 years
Kenneth P Vogel contributed reporting
Follow Peter Baker Nicholas Fandos Twitter peterbakernyt npfandos



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Russ Buettner Susanne Craig
In 2013 months Donald J Trump approached Deutsche Bank seeking loan buy Buffalo Bills mysterious new asset appeared financial statement
It wasnt new hotel office tower golf resort It brand value 4 billion Mr Trumps account
The Deutsche Bank episode along Mr Trumps stunning claim newfound wealth emerged Wednesday former personal lawyer Michael D Cohen testified House Oversight Committee Mr Cohen provided three years financial statements I believe numbers inflated commented dryly
Without ever saying Mr Cohen tracing lifelong mythmaking practice Mr Trump ultimately rode White House magically inflating value business empire create nurture brand Donald J Trump selfmade billionaire
That mythmaking began young man Mr Trump falsely claimed real estate empire still owned father legendary builder Fred C Trump It continued flashy opening sequence The Apprentice campaign trail 2015
The first public record Mr Trumps financial exaggerations came 1976 Mr Trump years college boasted Times reporter already worth 200 million
To support fantastical assertion Mr Trump laid claim various buildings projects throughout New York City area In truth father owned
Years later emerged public filing 1976 taxable income 24594
In 1980s instead appropriating fathers wealth quick diminish fathers considerable achievements He consistently cast Fred Trump behindthescenes cheerleader ran modest collection outerborough apartment buildings Mr Trump never mentioned fathers considerable wealth financial support made gilded life possible He claimed gotten 1 million loan father repaid interest
He solid guy bright guy I learned lot father In terms support No 1 thing I got father told latenight host David Letterman 1987 oddly referring father die 1999 past tense
Last year New York Times investigation found contrary claims 1 million loan Mr Trump received parents equivalent today least 413 million That figure increased legally dubious tax schemes relied reverse manipulation lowballing assets tax man came calling A lawyer Mr Trump said applicable laws followed
For years Mr Trump provided unaudited financial statements evidence wealth reporters banks seeking loans The deal Bills never came pass In 2007 deposition said values could even fluctuate based feelings compared real estate valuations political spin
Im different politician running office said You always want put best foot forward
The documents Mr Cohen presented Congress show dollar amounts bounce around Mr Trumps eclectic signature In 2013 statement example cash marketable securities category doubled 346 million year even note claimed Mr Trump paid number liabilities That year claimed net worth climbed 866 billion 5 billion year
Mr Cohen said often presented financial statements journalists publications like Forbes get Mr Trump lists wealthiest Americans
Last year Jonathan Greenberg former reporter Forbes recounted The Washington Post back 1980s long Mr Cohen entered picture Mr Trump called pretending John Barron supposed spokesman Donald Trump get magazines list richest Americans
Behind scenes though came time pay taxes Mr Trump instrumental depressing value familys assets
In 1995 instance Donald Trump three siblings claimed confidential tax documents obtained The Times properties owned father including 25 apartment complexes worth 414 million They claimed two rental buildings Trump Village Coney Island worth negative 59 million The maneuver spared family paying millions dollars gift estate taxes The actual value properties revealed 2004 banks valued almost 900 million
Tax experts told The Times types maneuvers legally questionable
Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez New York Democrat asked Mr Cohen tax schemes described Times investigation hearing Wednesday Mr Cohen responded actions took place arrived Trump Organization
Republicans members House Oversight Reform Committee along White House repeatedly sought discredit Mr Cohen Wednesday pointing pleading guilty financial crimes lying Congress
Mr Trumps true wealth entanglements would far better understood followed decadesold tradition presidential candidates releasing tax returns
Mr Cohen asked address veracity Mr Trumps claim could release returns audit Mr Cohen said opposite true Mr Trump concerned releasing returns would lead audit possible penalties
What didnt want entire group think tanks tax experts run tax return start ripping pieces hell end audit Mr Cohen said




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos
WASHINGTON The Florida Bar said Wednesday opened investigation determine whether Representative Matt Gaetz Republican state violated conduct rules threatened reveal said extramarital affairs pending congressional witness Michael D Cohen
Mr Gaetzs threat came Twitter Tuesday afternoon Mr Cohen President Trumps former lawyer longtime fixer preparing explosive public remarks House Oversight Reform Committee ultimately implicated former boss federal crimes unsavory acts Mr Gaetz 36 one Mr Trumps outspoken allies Capitol Hill public statements frequently solicited criticism Democrats
Hey MichaelCohen212 Do wife fatherinlaw know girlfriends Maybe tonight would good time chat I wonder shell remain faithful youre prison Shes learn lot Mr Gaetz wrote tweet deleted apologized
Democrats said Mr Gaetzs remarks might amount witness intimidation several lawmakers called comments investigated House Ethics Committee Francine Andía Walker spokeswoman Florida Bar said Wednesday organization opened investigation learning comments could offer details The Florida Bar licenses lawyers practice state
Any time words actions Florida lawyer result complaints Florida Bar fully investigate complaints established grievance process determine bar rules violated said It handles thousands complaints year filing charges pursuing discipline lawyers whose professional conduct keeping rules
Mr Gaetz said Tuesday merely raising questions veracity character congressional witness trying intimidate
On Wednesday said text message contacted Florida Bar signaled concerned
It seems Florida Bar rules required investigate even frivolous complaints said
As member Congress Mr Gaetz protected Constitutions speech debate clause gives lawmakers wide latitude speak Congress session It cited frequently past protection punishment
Under federal law crime threaten intimidate individual influence delay otherwise prevent person testifying official proceedings including congressional hearing But clear whether remark like Mr Gaetzs made ambiguously social media would qualify Nor clear whether congressional speech debate protections would give legal cover
Mr Gaetz deleted tweet late Tuesday Speaker Nancy Pelosi California warned comments like could harm Oversight Committees ability obtain truthful complete information necessary
I chosen words better showed intent wrote replying Ms Pelosi Im sorry
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Peter Baker Maggie Haberman
WASHINGTON On busy day White House President Trump hosted senators talk tax cuts accused Democratic congresswoman distorting condolence call soldiers widow suffered another court defeat travel ban targeting Muslim countries
And point Wednesday Oct 18 2017 Mr Trump took time sign 35000 check lawyer made hush payments prevent alleged sexual misconduct exposed 2016 presidential election It one 11 occasions Mr Trump trust cut checks six provided week The New York Times
At heart last weeks congressional testimony Michael D Cohen Mr Trumps former lawyer sensational accusation sitting president United States financed illegal coverup inside White House The dates newly available checks shed light parallel lives Mr Trump living account managing affairs state quietly paying price keeping personal secrets public eye
The president hosted foreign leader Oval Office wrote check He haggled legislation wrote check He traveled abroad wrote check On day reportedly pressured FBI director drop investigation former aide presidents trust issued check Mr Cohen furtherance federal prosecutors called criminal scheme violate campaign finance laws direction Mr Trump
The White House Tuesday referred questions payments Mr Trumps private lawyers Jay Sekulow one presidents personal lawyers comment lawyer Trump Organization declined discuss matter
Other defenders president said checks proved Mr Trump paid personal lawyer necessarily knew money meant reimburse Mr Cohen hush payments Stormy Daniels pornographic film actress claimed extramarital affair Mr Trump The president denied affair
I think news knew Representative Jim Jordan Ohio ranking Republican House Oversight Reform Committee one presidents staunchest allies told reporters break last weeks hearing The payments said could services based retainer although Mr Cohen said retainer
The presidents critics said checks mostly Mr Trumps distinctive upanddown signature fact bolster prosecutors conclusion involvement scheme Mr Cohen pleaded guilty violating campaign finance laws well lying Congress faces three years prison starting spring
The 35000 indication quality evidence shows extent Trumps leading role leaves little doubt faces criminal prosecution leaves office offenses Cohen serve time said Robert F Bauer law professor New York University former White House counsel President Barack Obama
Indeed people close Mr Trump privately predicted ultimately choose seek second term part legal exposure president While legal consensus matter Justice Department policy says president indicted office
The checks Mr Cohen sent less monthly basis throughout 2017 Mr Trumps first year office Mr Cohen provided two checks House committee last week lawyer Lanny J Davis provided additional six checks The Times week Mr Cohens team said searching three others
Of eight checks available seven 35000 another 70000 cover two months worth payments Six signed Mr Trump president two signed eldest son Donald Trump Jr companys chief financial officer Allen Weisselberg
Altogether Mr Trump trust paid Mr Cohen 420000 according federal prosecutors Of 130000 reimburse payments made shortly 2016 election Ms Daniels whose legal name Stephanie Clifford would tell story Another 50000 Mr Cohens effort manipulate online polls inflate Mr Trumps reputation businessman
That 180000 grossed another 180000 offset taxes Mr Cohen would pay original money since treated income Another 60000 added bonus prosecutors said
Mr Trump offered conflicting accounts matter Speaking reporters Air Force One April 2018 said know payment Ms Daniels But month later lawyer Rudolph W Giuliani hoping refute suggestion might campaign finance violation told Fox News The Times president fact reimbursed Mr Cohen payment
Citing Mr Cohen evidence prosecutors Southern District New York said court papers Mr Trump directed scheme essentially making unindicted coconspirator
Were talking felony committed president United States theres dispute said Mr Davis lawyer Mr Cohen
People close Mr Trump suggested may aware Mr Cohen real time despite audiotape Mr Cohen recorded discussing Mr Trump payments The National Enquirer made second woman claimed affair candidate
A person close Mr Trump said may believed checks payment general legal fees may known The presidents associates stressed payment Mr Cohen one several made privately month
Mr Davis scoffed You denied Stormy Daniels affair lie said Now youre denying knew payoff reimbursement Giuliani says knew So claim ignorance doesnt credibility
One person without question involved according multiple people briefed events Mr Weisselberg Trump Organization chief financial officer Mr Cohen told Mr Weisselberg 130000 wire transfer Ms Daniels Mr Weisselberg suggested repaying installments told Mr Cohen send invoices month according people
By Mr Cohens account checks began February 2017 weeks Mr Trump inaugurated president When Mr Cohen visited Oval Office first time said Mr Trump raised issue hush payments room symbolized United States seat power
Dont worry Michael January February reimbursement checks coming quoted Mr Trump telling They FedExed New York takes get White House system
The first check signed Feb 14 2017 70000 cover January February It issued presidents trust signed Mr Weisselberg Donald Trump Jr
The payment came fraught moment presidents early weeks day forced national security adviser Michael T Flynn resign lying contacts Russia On day check Mr Cohen signed Mr Trump pulled aside James B Comey FBI director suggested letting Flynn go according contemporaneous memo Mr Comey
The next check 35000 came trust March 17 even president hosted Chancellor Angela Merkel Germany Oval Office aides grappling firestorm unfounded assertions aired White House British spied Mr Trump candidate
A check April located Mr Cohens records seized federal agents But initial payments Mr Trump instructed write Mr Cohen checks personal checking account instead trust It clear told removed sons name future checks
On May 23 president signed personal check day overseas meeting Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu Israel Jerusalem President Mahmoud Abbas Palestinian Authority Bethlehem flying night Rome
Checks June July also located The next one Aug 1 came Mr Trump invited small business owners White House aide confirmed president dictated misleading statement 2016 meeting campaign team held Russians
On Sept 12 Mr Trump hosted prime minister Malaysia even press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders telling reporters Justice Department certainly look prosecuting Mr Comey Mr Trump signed another 35000 check day
After Oct 18 check came one Nov 21 two days Thanksgiving Mr Trump pardoned turkey saying I feel good defended Roy S Moore Republican Senate candidate Alabama accused sexual misconduct teenage girls Mr Trump also spoke telephone day President Vladimir V Putin Russia
The last check made public signed Dec 5 day Mr Trump called Mr Netanyahu Mr Abbas Arab leaders tell decided move American Embassy Jerusalem
Four months later FBI agents raided Mr Cohens office home
Follow Peter Baker Maggie Haberman Twitter peterbakernyt maggienyt

video

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Robert Pear
WASHINGTON Federal health officials enforcing requirements Medicaid coverage abortion limited circumstances legal congressional investigators found
At least 13 states flouting requirement cover abortioninducing pills one state South Dakota 25 years failed provide required coverage abortion cases rape incest Government Accountability Office nonpartisan investigative arm Congress said report made public month
The report underlines wide range restrictions states impose abortion access Medicaid coverage
Trump administration officials like many predecessors taken actions address states noncompliance report said
The federal law known Hyde Amendment generally prohibits federal funding abortions But state Medicaid programs required cover abortion pregnancy result rape incest life pregnant woman would endangered without abortion
States also supposed cover pill induces abortion Mifeprex abortion available Medicaid But survey Government Accountability Office 13 states said cover drug
Without coverage report said Medicaid beneficiaries seeking abortions states would find another way pay drug undergo surgical abortion instead
Federal officials Centers Medicare Medicaid Services aware states cover Mifeprex thus agency sought address states noncompliance report said
The drug also known RU486 approved use first 10 weeks pregnancy usually taken combination another medicine
The number abortions United States declined last 30 years report said medication abortions involve use prescription drugs rather surgical procedure increased may account onethird abortions
Representative Diana DeGette Democrat Colorado requested investigation expressed dismay findings
States supposed covering limited number abortions Medicaid even Ms DeGette said A poor woman raped raped relative whose life might endangered carrying pregnancy afford go another state get services Thats Medicaid covering services like
South Dakota told Government Accountability Office cover abortions cases rape incest Federal health officials sent letter South Dakota 1994 observing Medicaid coverage comply federal law
The federal Centers Medicare Medicaid Services aware South Dakota cover abortions cases rape incest required federal law taken action 25 years ensure states compliance report said
As result said Medicaid beneficiaries South Dakota Medicaid coverage abortions cases rape incest
The findings lead paradoxical conclusion The Trump administration firmly opposed abortion may work states make sure provide Medicaid coverage surgical procedure abortion pill certain circumstances
After seeing draft report Trump administration said would urge states comply must operate Medicaid programs accordance federal laws guidance Neither South Dakota 13 states compliance federal requirements administration said
Representative Frank Pallone Jr Democrat New Jersey chairman Energy Commerce Committee responsible Medicaid said administrations response woefully inadequate He asked top federal Medicaid official Seema Verma explain steps taking bring states compliance
Federal law explicitly require Medicaid coverage prescription drugs used terminate pregnancy But states generally required cover drugs companies agree give deep discounts Medicaid drug rebate program manufacturer Mifeprex Danco Laboratories among companies So states supposed cover drug used abortions eligible federal funding Hyde Amendment
The report Government Accountability Office found 28 states cover abortions federal government help pay Other states use funds provide broader coverage
In 14 states women must report rape incest police another government agency Medicaid cover abortion terminate resulting pregnancy
Federal officials know many women receiving abortions Medicaid program Most Medicaid beneficiaries managed care plans states regularly collect information many abortions receive States supposed report abortions traditional feeforservice Medicaid program reports often inaccurate Government Accountability Office said
In survey office identified nearly 5000 abortions states claimed federal funds 2013 2016 nearly 10 times number reported Congress federal Medicaid agency And even higher number incomplete report said states unable provide information number Medicaid abortions



Advertisement












Paul Manaforts Trail Scandals
My Dead Dads Porno Tapes
Ten Meter Tower
Between Sound Silence
Coal Miner Trump Coal Mining Isnt Coming Back
House Tour Cary Leibowitz
Sanctuary City Hotline
2011 Arab Spring
Can The President Be Impeached We Answer Your Questions
Calving Season
Advertisement
Supported
letters
Readers discuss dramatic hearing Mr Cohen expressed regret actions behalf president harshly attacked Republicans
To Editor
Re Cohen Says President Told Him Lie About Hush Money Payments nytimescom Feb 27
Whether believe Michael Cohen say testimony deserve opportunity simple opportunity hear testimony Instead GOP members House Oversight Reform Committee constantly ceding time Representative Jim Jordan bulldog harasses intimidates Mr Cohen instead spending valuable time letting American public hear questions answers
In court law witnesses harassed either side These lawmakers might well keep mind
Connie SchiedPortland Ore
To Editor
Republicans Congress appear skeptical Michael Cohens testimony oh gosh hes lied past Perhaps tell us current former Trump administration campaign officials including president would believe
Stephen PolitBelmont Mass
To Editor
How times changed Two years ago Michael Cohen reviled liar Donald Trump minion believed Now Congress places Mr Cohen convicted felon pedestal credible witness
Andrew KoSan Marino Calif
To Editor
What learned hearings far That President Trump may lost fixer Michael Cohen many fixers among GOP members Congress
Elaine L ShuteSurry Me
To Editor
Sarah Huckabee Sanders White House press secretary called laughable anyone would believe Michael Cohen convicted liar But Mr Cohen wasnt convicted lie falsely testified Congress President Trump stopped negotiating Russians January 2016 building Trump Tower Moscow That claim president made throughout campaign repeated day Mr Cohen confessed wasnt true
It Mr Cohen Mr Trump first came clean lie And Mr Trump Mr Cohen benefited
In short lie means Mr Cohen believed affects presidents credibility even
Robert HelfandSimsbury Conn
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Fact Check Day
In questioning Michael Cohen President Trumps former lawyer members House Oversight Reform Committee made incorrect misleading statements
By Linda Qiu
What Was Said
This might first time someone convicted lying Congress appeared quickly front Congress
Representative Jim Jordan Republican Ohio
This carefully worded statement true could give misleading impression There little precedent someone convicted specific crime lying Congress appear Congress shortly afterward But people found lied Congress returned body testify lawmakers occasionally hear convicted criminals
Very people six 1940s 2000s according one estimate convicted lying Congress Others indicted acquitted example Roger Clemens baseball pitcher received presidential pardons like officials Reagan administration involved Irancontra affair
Among small group least two testified Congress charged Elliott Abrams former assistant secretary state President Ronald Reagan current envoy Venezuela President Trump pleaded guilty 1991 withholding information Congress testified Congress month Robert McFarlane Mr Reagans national security adviser also pleaded guilty 1988 withholding information Congress testified Senate 2002 Both men pardoned President George Bush
Other people committed crimes lying Congress testified body include Frank Costello mafia boss 1951 Joseph Michael Valachi mobster 1963 Frank Abagnale former con artist subject Steven Spielbergs Catch Me If You Can 2017
What Was Said
Remember started The Clinton campaign hired Perkins Coie law firm hired Glenn Simpson hired foreigner Christopher Steele put together fake dossier FBI used get warrant spy Trump campaign
Mr Jordan
Mr Jordan echoed falsehood often repeated Mr Trump investigation campaigns possible links Russian election interference prompted salacious dossier compiled Christopher Steele former British spy
In fact investigation began July 2016 The New York Times reported Republicans held majority vote last year House Intelligence Committee concluded George Papadopoulos foreign policy adviser Mr Trump told Australian diplomat May 2016 Russians dirt Hillary Clinton Australian officials alerted American counterparts
The information provided Mr Steele reach FBI officials investigating Mr Trumps campaign midSeptember 2016 The New York Times reported May
What Was Said
How Mr Papadopoulos pled guilty Mr Manafort convicted pled guilty two charges Mr Gates pled guilty Mr Flynn pled guilty Mr Pinedo pled guilty Mr van der Zwaan pled guilty Mr Kilimnik indicted charge obstruction justice two years want talk agenda friends side aisle refuse bring people committee
Representative Stephen F Lynch Democrat Massachusetts
Mr Lynch correct none Trump associates listed Paul Manafort Rick Gates Michael T Flynn among publicly testified House Oversight Reform Committee Republican control one appear committee closeddoor session Mr Papadopoulos gave private testimony House Oversight Reform Committee well House Judiciary Committee October
Curious accuracy claim Email factchecknytimescom
Linda Qiu factcheck reporter based Washington She came The Times 2017 factchecking service PolitiFact ylindaqiu
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Rebecca R Ruiz
President Trumps former lawyer told Congress Wednesday Mr Trump remained deeply involved arrangement pay hush money pornographic film actress even White House telling year ago lie journalist presidents involvement
Testifying House Oversight Committee lawyer Michael D Cohen also first time publicly implicated presidents eldest son Donald Jr chief financial officer company Allen Weisselberg arrangement involving actress Stormy Daniels She paid 130000 2016 election keep quiet alleged affair Mr Trump Mr Cohen reimbursed 2017 fronting money
He knew everything Mr Cohen said Mr Trump Everything go Mr Trump approved Mr Trump
While federal prosecutors New York laid general narrative around payments including Mr Trumps involvement Mr Cohen explicitly placed Mr Trump center events producing checks described evidence role president company played
Mr Cohen pleaded guilty last summer campaign finance crimes relating payments made Ms Daniels second woman Karen McDougal also said affair Mr Trump He scheduled begin serving threeyear prison sentence May crimes including lying Congress earlier testimony
Republican members committee Wednesday repeatedly challenged Mr Cohens remarks untrustworthy even Mr Cohen sworn president posted Twitter lying order reduce prison time The Trump campaign also released statement impugning Mr Cohens credibility
But testimony punctuated flashes anger regret Mr Cohen said seen errors ways determined serve positive role model children Insisting speaking truth offered first upclose description involved president remained concealing details payments even winning election
He described meeting president February 2017 Mr Trump said two checks written Mr Cohen reimbursement 130000 gotten caught White House mail
Im visiting President Trump Oval Office first time truly aweinspiring Mr Cohen said Hes showing around pointing different paintings And says something effect Dont worry Michael January February reimbursement checks coming
Last year Mr Cohen said president contacted The Wall Street Journal first reported payment Ms Daniels
Mr Cohen said Mr Trump Mr Weisselberg discussed coordinating statement rebutted report asserted Mr Cohen paid Ms Daniels He also described receiving phone call month Mr Trump interview Vanity Fair Mr Cohen said president directed tell reporter Mr Trump knowledge dealings Ms Daniels
Separately Mr Cohen said one greatest misgivings surrounding hush money involved first lady Melania Trump Mr Cohen said Mr Trump told lie Ms Trump payment
He asked pay adult film star affair lie wife I said opening remarks Lying first lady one biggest regrets
Mr Cohen worked decade Trump family business also offered clearest suggestion yet Mr Weisselberg stalwart company key figure behind effort conceal hush money The executive focus several months investigation federal prosecutors New York according people briefed matter
Mr Cohen suggested president Mr Weisselberg mindful political legal tightrope walking He described meeting attended Mr Trump Mr Weisselberg Mr Trump ordered payment After meeting Mr Cohen said Mr Weisselberg debated best way pay Ms Daniels decided disguise reimbursement Mr Trump Mr Cohen breaking monthly installments
I asked Allen use money I didnt want use mine said couldnt Mr Cohen testified He asked I knew anybody wanted party one clubs said suggesting event could provided alternate justification forwarding funds I didnt
Mr Cohen paid money 2017 filed sham invoices Trump Organization according prosecutors
On Wednesday Mr Cohen produced two checks said among 11 installments reimburse One check dated March 17 2017 bore signatures Donald Jr Mr Weisselberg The dated Aug 1 2017 presidents
Wednesdays congressional hearing focusing part much Trump knew hush money payments proposed Trump Tower Moscow
Asked Ms Daniels received sum 130000 Mr Cohen said amount requested Without payment said worried story going go TV
Mr Cohen long aware Ms Daniels alleged affair In 2011 made legal threats promised detail allegations gossip website TheDirtycom
It wire Mr Cohen told lawmakers Wednesday explaining initially paid pocket
A lawyer Mr Weisselberg declined comment Mr Weisselberg testified grand jury last year prosecutors building case Mr Cohen granted immunity prosecution related testimony
In response questions lawmakers Wednesday Mr Cohen also mentioned Mr Weisselberg someone would know possible irregularities Mr Trumps company The New York Times reported Friday Mr Cohen met last month federal prosecutors Manhattan offering information possible issues involving insurance claims reported last year Mr Trump engaged suspect tax schemes accumulating wealth
Mr Cohen also involved hush money payment Ms McDougal former Playboy model received 125000 American Media Inc publisher The National Enquirer Mr Cohen said Mr Trump known shopping story around summer 2016 intended reimburse tabloid company paid keep quiet
He supposed pay Mr Cohen said president He supposed pay 125000 life story Karen McDougal For whatever reason elected pay David Pecker angry said referring AMIs chief executive
Prosecutors said last summer Mr Cohen promised reimburse AMI money paid Ms McDougal In October 2016 said Mr Pecker instructed Mr Cohen tear document relating Ms McDougals contract He document among seized raid office last spring
OpinionNoah Bookbinder


Advertisement












Paul Manaforts Trail Scandals
My Dead Dads Porno Tapes
Ten Meter Tower
Between Sound Silence
Coal Miner Trump Coal Mining Isnt Coming Back
House Tour Cary Leibowitz
Sanctuary City Hotline
2011 Arab Spring
Can The President Be Impeached We Answer Your Questions
Calving Season
Advertisement
Supported
By Sheryl Gay Stolberg
WASHINGTON As child former sharecroppers Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland stranger blunt conversations race But fiery freshman Democrat practically accused conservative Republican racism Wednesday uneasy truce Mr Cummings brokered put center raw debate race gender changing House
The heated exchange came end Wednesdays explosive House Oversight Committee hearing featuring Michael D Cohen After Representative Mark Meadows Republican North Carolina brought black political appointee President Trumps effort prove Mr Trump racist Representative Rashida Tlaib Democrat Michigan called racist actually use prop black woman chamber committee
Mr Meadows redfaced near tears demanded Ms Tlaibs words taken struck record violation House rules Mr Cummings asked Ms Tlaib explain She apologized Then questions began
Whose emotions put first said Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez New York close ally Ms Tlaibs oversight panel witnessed encounter We apologize getting hurt feelings saying calling racist practice Ms Tlaib also hurt apology furnished
The Root website focuses race went Cummings handling Tlaib yesterday part larger problem Democratic Party new class women color Democrats want women color Congress cant seem handle truthtelling wrote Terrell Jermaine Starr He added He messed needs apologize Tlaib nonetheless publicly Otherwise Republicans take Meadows cue cry river white tears time woman color dares call racism
The episode underscored Mr Cummings wants run committee On Thursday many colleagues including Ms OcasioCortez came defense saying handled difficult situation well preventing important historic hearing going rails
But outside Capitol reviews less kind Critics furious Mr Cummings called Mr Meadows one best friends resurfaced several 2012 campaign videos showing Mr Meadows saying intended send President Barack Obama home Kenya wherever
Beyond contretemps Cohen hearing served shine national spotlight new generation outspoken young Democrats many women color forcing pointed conversations race abandoning unwritten protocols decorum way elders often agree
You bear witness bear witness truth said Representative John Lewis Democrat Georgia civil rights icon applauded young women color getting likes call good trouble necessary trouble
This body going continue change people diverse background come Mr Lewis said America changing We need get board
But generational divide could emerging especially AfricanAmerican elders House decades I think certainly bring different perspective ways said Representative Danny K Davis Democrat Illinois I think wording sometimes little different The level might called professional civility may little different I think individuals expressing many ways feelings saying things
For House Republican Conference 90 percent white male uncomfortable moments inevitable Mr Meadows called birther videos old news Thursday said previously apologized He also appeared reconcile Ms Tlaib two shared hug seemingly cordial talk House floor
She said didnt mean yesterday need apologize told reporters afterward I wanted know wanted know relationship one hopefully provide real good results going forward
Mr Meadows Ms Tlaib political cultural opposites Mr Meadows 59 welltodo real estate developer chairman House Freedom Caucus one Mr Trumps ardent defenders Capitol Hill
Ms Tlaib 42 made headlines first day office captured video using expletive describe Mr Trump spoke desire impeach A lawyer social justice advocate Detroit daughter Palestinian immigrants one first two Muslim women Congress
She respond request interview Thursday Mr Cummings brushed aside questions Im going talk said I think able resolve I think ended civility
Congress course grappling issues race existence certainly debates civil rights era pointed passionate But rise Mr Trump referred former black aide Omarosa Manigault Newman dog declared fine people sides white supremacists march 2017 Charlottesville Va made Washingtons conversation race deeply personal Ms Tlaib lawmakers color
As representatives communities margins president defines vision America I think bring urgency emotional depth rhetoric academic said Representative Ro Khanna Democrat California also present TlaibMeadows exchange Its lived experience
Alexandra Rojas executive director Justice Democrats liberal organization helped elect Ms Tlaib Ms OcasioCortez described Ms Tlaib one new generation Democrats going puncture silence even uncomfortable
Mr Meadows anticipated Mr Cohen Mr Trumps former personal lawyer would describe president racist asked Trump appointee Lynne Patton Department Housing Urban Development attend When turn speak asked rise spoke saying disagreed Mr Cohen way would work individual racist
Ms Tlaib incredulous The fact someone would actually use prop black woman chamber committee alone racist
Another Michigan Democrat Representative Brenda Lawrence AfricanAmerican said totally insulting Mr Meadows prop one member entire race
Representative Ayanna S Pressley freshman Democrat Massachusetts black asked Mr Cohen whether possible Mr Trump black friend still racist replied Yes
In fact Democrats call Mr Meadows women color Men color committee Mr Khanna Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi Illinois held tongues
While Mr Cummings may wanted put matter rest exchange reverberating inside outside Capitol
I think handled way made sense committee moment said Adrianne Shropshire executive director Black PAC mobilizes black voters He chair committee part role facilitate mediate members
Ms OcasioCortez agreed saying felt Mr Cummings correct procedure trying everything power protect Ms Tlaib reprimanded But added women color often face disparate treatment work
At end day Ms OcasioCortez said one person got apology one person didnt two people hurt
Emily Cochrane contributed reporting

video
OpinionKashana Cauley

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Katie Rogers
WASHINGTON The Government Accountability Office set 2017 calculate total cost taxpayers President Trumps trips MaraLago resort Palm Beach Fla said report issued Tuesday could come snapshot expenses Trump administration respond requests information
The agency ended studying four trips president took onemonth period 2017 found government agencies including Defense Department Secret Service spent 136 million average 3 million trip transport protect president bulk expenses going cover cost military aircraft boats time
The tab officials say likely higher since total expenses administration members racked traveling dining staying resort known four trips much less 218 days presidency Mr Trump spent one properties Of total 78 days spent MaraLago
The GAO officials compiled report said White House respond three separate requests information might help flesh travel costs Secret Service Defense Department submitted regular accounting expenses Congress required Presidential Protection Assistance Act 1976
As result GAO studied trips Mr Trump took Feb 3 March 5 2017 hoping piece together costs On one trips example president hosted Shinzo Abe prime minister Japan MaraLago At time White House official said president paid Mr Abe wifes trip Florida gift
Without White Houses cooperation details Mr Trumps personal expenditures related trip could included report You could assume total cost 136 million Brian Lepore G AOs director defense capabilities management said interview White Houses lack response Plus something else
Mr Lepore emphasized several agencies including Defense Department Secret Service Coast Guard able furnish details Defense Department Secret Service agreed deliver detailed reports Congress future In case Defense Department report found process place reporting expenditures
The White House respond request comment supply information report
Mr Lepore said Obama White House underwent similar review trips President Barack Obama took Chicago West Palm Beach 2013 met GAO officials ultimately declined release information The Clinton White House faced review 1999 furnished cost information President Bill Clintons international trips Africa Chile China
Wed certainly want know cost lodging meals incidental expenses incurred staff members trips MaraLago Mr Lepore said
Noah Bookbinder executive director ethics watchdog CREW said report raised significant issues particularly since found 60000 pumped back MaraLago time period
When president travels visit properties promoting businesses offering extensive free publicity well cases providing access perks paying customers Mr Bookbinder said Of course money paid directly presidential property like MaraLago conflictofinterest concerns intensify
The Democratic lawmakers requested report also asked officials examine costs protecting two presidents sons Eric Donald Trump Jr three international trips taken early 2017 The report found younger Trumps flew commercial aircraft cost Secret Service 396000 mostly temporary duty costs protect trips Uruguay Dominican Republic United Arab Emirates
The Secret Service respond request comment responsible protecting presidents adult children unless decline protections Donald Trump Jr done past
The Democrats requested report including Senators Dianne Feinstein California Gary Peters Michigan Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland said alarmed findings
This part troubling pattern wasteful spending serious abuse tax dollars administration said statement We keep investigating issue ensure taxpayer dollars used effectively appropriately
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maggie Haberman
President Trump claimed Friday former personal lawyer fixer Michael D Cohen directly asked pardon sharp escalation fight veracity Mr Cohens testimony last week House Oversight Reform Committee
Mr Trump made claim Twitter referring Mr Cohens testimony Congress Mr Cohen said president lied public business interests Russia lied reporters stolen Democratic emails told Mr Cohen lie hush payments cover sexual misconduct
Bad lawyer fraudster Michael Cohen said sworn testimony never asked Pardon His lawyers totally contradicted He lied Additionally directly asked pardon I said NO He lied He also badly wanted work White House He lied
Mr Cohen quickly responded tweet calling Mr Trumps assertions lies
Just another set lies POTUS realdonaldtrump Mr Presidentlet remind today InternationalWomensDay You may want use today apologize lies DirtyDeeds women like Karen McDougal Stephanie Clifford
Mr Cohen referring two women claimed affairs president paid keep quiet 2016 presidential campaign
The exchange latest example potential pardons whether hinted Mr Trump team sought people caught investigations swirling around become public flash point
The question whether Mr Cohen sought pardon subject contention since testimony last week said oath never sought one
His current lawyer Lanny J Davis acknowledged week Mr Cohens previous lawyer inquired pardon soon FBI searched Mr Cohens home office April 2018 But Mr Davis said inquiry came presidents team dangled possibility one implicit statements
Mr Cohen told associates signals Mr Trump pardon date back year soon Mr Cohen publicly disclosed making said time unreimbursed payments pocket 2016 Stormy Daniels pornographic film star claimed affair president decade earlier
Mr Cohen told associates last March office homes raided dinner Mr Trump president talked phone raids April After conversations Mr Cohen told associates anticipated would given pardon form protection would remain silent reimbursed Mr Trump making payments according people told discussions
Mr Cohen Mr Trump part formal agreement lawyers worked together review documents FBI seized determine could declared limits law enforcement officials attorneyclient privilege But joint effort ended July 2018 Mr Trumps aides balked paying parts Mr Cohens legal bills
The exchange two men Friday highlighted stakes establishing whether Mr Cohen credible accusations made president congressional testimony providing information federal prosecutors Republicans Mr Trumps allies noted testimony said never sought pardon At time Mr Trump often said things true including statements related knowledge payments Ms Daniels
The questions credibility Mr Cohens public testimony stands contrast prosecutors working described A memo federal court judge overseeing Mr Cohens case Manhattan office special counsel Robert S Mueller III said Mr Cohen truthful provided useful information connection work Federal prosecutors Manhattan questioning timing motivation Mr Cohens help also used information provided able corroborate
The volleys two men Friday also highlighted continued questions Mr Trumps pardon power might use Mr Mueller wraps investigation federal prosecutors Democrats Congress intensify expand scope presidents business career
The New York Times reported March 2018 Mr Trumps previous lead lawyer John Dowd raised possibility pardons lawyers Paul Manafort presidents former campaign chairman Michael T Flynn former national security adviser charged cases brought Mr Muellers team
Mr Trump asked Friday possibility pardon Mr Manafort Mr Manafort sentenced 47 months prison Thursday one two cases brought Mr Muellers prosecutors
I havent discussed Mr Trump said referring pardon Mr Manafort
Speaking reporters outside White House leaving trip Alabama Florida Mr Trump elaborated comments said Mr Cohens discussions pardon
It stonecold lie Mr Trump said Mr Cohens claims never sought pardon And hes lied lot things lied pardon really lie
Mr Trump continued His lawyers said went lawyers asked pardons And I go step I wont
Mr Trumps current lead lawyer Rudolph W Giuliani said president focusing pardons right would appropriate also left open possibility president might invoke power road



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Sarah Maslin Nir
What need know start day Get New York Today inbox
In testimony Congress week Michael Cohen cast central figure schemes could threaten presidency Donald J Trump
But Mr Cohen said didnt work alone unexpectedly mentioning name involvement another member Mr Trumps inner circle Allen Weisselberg 20 times The revelations set intensify scrutiny Mr Weisselberg Mr Trumps unassuming 71yearold chief financial officer already focus federal prosecutors New York
On Wednesday Mr Cohen specifically identified Mr Weisselberg helping mastermind strategy mask reimbursements Mr Cohen payment Stormy Daniels pornographic film actress said affair Mr Trump
Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland chairman House Committee Oversight Reform said Wednesdays hearing probably want call additional witnesses including Mr Weisselberg gather additional evidence hushmoney payment
A Democratic official said House Intelligence Committee anticipates calling Mr Weisselberg testify well
Mr Cohen said hearing payment ordered Mr Trump violated campaign finance laws intended buy Ms Danielss silence could hurt Mr Trumps prospects right election
Mr Cohen said paid Ms Daniels money repaid Trump Organization
Allen Weisselberg made decision paid 12 months would look like retainer Mr Cohen told lawmakers describing reimbursements made monthly
Mr Cohen submitted Congress copy 35000 check labeled exhibit 5b said one monthly payments
It signed Mr Weisselberg Donald Trump Jr
Mr Weisselberg declined comment lawyers But clear lawmakers investigators might home examine Trump Organizations finances
After Mr Cohen pleaded guilty campaign finance fraud crimes August federal prosecutors Manhattan began focusing role Trump Organization executives including Mr Weisselberg played campaign finance scheme according people briefed matter
As part investigation Mr Weisselberg granted limited immunity testify federal grand jury last year But indication cooperated prosecutors
Mr Weisselberg accountant began career books Mr Trumps father dingy building Brooklyn For decades represented Mr Trump paperwork everything complex real estate deals operations antique carousel Central Park Trump Organization runs
In 2015 lawyer representing students alleged defrauded Mr Trumps education venture Trump University questioned Mr Weisselberg deposition describing Mr Trumps eyes ears investments
Mr Weisselberg replied Am I eyes ears From economic standpoint court records show In 2016 Mr Trump settled case 25 million
Corey Lewandowski former Trump campaign official wrote book coauthored Let Trump Be Trump Mr Weisselberg knows every dime leaves building
Aside Mr Weisselberg several Trump associates may asked testify House wake Mr Cohens hearing including three executives Trump Organization Matthew Calamari Alan Garten Ronald C Lieberman
But Mr Cummings said committee would proceed carefully avoid interfering investigation federal prosecutors special counsels office United States attorneys office Manhattan
Still indication may come Mr Cummings sent letters two lawyers said involved preparing Mr Trumps federal financial disclosure filing originally omitted payments made reimburse Mr Cohen payment Ms Daniels
The letters requested lawyers Sheri A Dillon Stefan C Passantino appear interviews committee March
Ms Dillon tax lawyer represents Mr Trump Mr Passantino deputy White House counsel time focused ethics since left advises Trump Organization deal House investigations
Mr Weisselberg previously questioned oath lawsuit filed last year New York attorney general Trump Foundation Mr Trumps charitable organization served treasurer In late December foundation dissolved attorney general accused fraud
The United States attorneys office Manhattan New York attorney generals office declined comment
Mr Weisselbergs involvement hush money payments women first surfaced last year federal prosecutors seized recordings Mr Cohens office On one recordings Mr Cohen heard saying Ive spoken Allen Weisselberg set whole thing
For part Mr Trump expressed confidence Mr Weisselberg turn president
100 percent didnt Mr Trump told reporters Bloomberg asked last year whether Mr Weisselberg betrayed Hes wonderful guy
Others certain
I sure Allen want hurt Donald I sure affection said Barbara Res former executive Trump Organization critic president But hes terrible position Donald put
One secret Mr Weisselbergs lifelong career Trump family earthy modesty according friends biographers Mr Trump He wears dark unflashy suits cultivates saltandpepper mustache He still shows desk Trump Tower every day watching organizations finances
He whatever necessary protect bottom line Mr Trump wrote Mr Weisselberg book Think Like Billionaire
As child Brownsville Brooklyn Mr Weisselberg played punchball dark rode city bus school 15 cents In The Aurora green clothbound yearbook Thomas Jefferson High School class 1965 appears cowlicked teenage boy names dream profession accountant
President Trumps father made dream come true In 1973 hired Mr Weisselberg accounting office Gravesend Brooklyn
Mr Weisselberg never lost Brownsville humility even employer lavished things like private jet rides pool MaraLago least one advantageous real estate deal
He embodiment accountant said Gwenda Blair interviewed Mr Weisselberg 2000 book The Trumps
Mr Weisselbergs lifestyle remained modest even rose office 26th floor Trump Tower
He lived ranchstyle house Wantagh Long Island wife nearly 50 years Hilary selling 2013 468000 In 2002 spent 282000 vacation property lowslung house backs lagoon Boynton Beach Fla
Most recently Weisselbergs rented apartment Trumpbranded building Riverside Boulevard In 2016 800 residents voted strip Trump name facade
Mr Weisselbergs loyalty wellcompensated whole family benefited relationship Mr Trump
One Mr Weisselbergs sons Barry property manager Trump Wollman Rink past 17 years according LinkedIn profile There hosted Hanukkah Ice dialing dad putting speaker phone could hear holiday songs Barry Weisselberg declined comment
Mr Weisselbergs son Jack works Ladder Capital real estate investment trust one Trump Organizations biggest creditors
Jack benefited ways In 2000 father purchased onebedroom apartment Trump Parc East building overlooking Central Park It cost 152500 appears purchased profoundly market value according property records He transferred deed son Jack according property records flipped four times original price 2006
Jack Weisselberg respond email phone messages
Aside awkward cameo second season Mr Trumps television show The Apprentice Mr Weisselberg recently stayed limelight focusing serving boss
In books interviews president described Mr Weisselberg goto man whether help pick carpet swatches development strongarm firms contracted
In Mr Cohens testimony Wednesday Mr Trumps reliance CFO display When came paying back fixer hush money Mr Cohen said president turned Mr Weisselberg
He acknowledged Allen going pay 130000 Mr Cohen said And Allen I go back office figure
An earlier version article misidentified street Weisselbergs rented apartment Trumpbranded building It Riverside Boulevard Riverside Drive
Ben Protess Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting Susan C Beachy contributed research



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos Maggie Haberman
WASHINGTON Michael D Cohen plans tell Congress Wednesday President Trump con man cheat knew longtime adviser communicating WikiLeaks implicitly instructed Mr Cohen lie Trump Tower project Moscow underway 2016 presidential campaign
The extraordinary testimony take place Mr Cohen presidents former lawyer fixer publicly appears House Oversight Reform Committee An advance copy Mr Cohens testimony obtained Tuesday night reporters multiple news organizations including The New York Times Mr Trump began meetings Vietnam convening North Korean leader Kim Jongun
Read opening statement Find watch
Mr Cohen lawyer adviser Lanny J Davis immediately reply requests comment
In statement earlier Tuesday Sarah Huckabee Sanders White House press secretary condemned Mr Cohen disgraced felon
Its laughable anyone would take convicted liar like Cohen word pathetic see given yet another opportunity spread lies said
In vivid times tortured language Mr Cohen plans use opening remarks unspool narrative laced regret decade working alongside Mr Trump including episodes 2016 campaign believed center investigations special counsel Robert S Mueller III federal prosecutors New York
The testimony underscores many unsavory themes stories recurred public reporting Mr Trump inflates wealth makes racist remarks threatens enemies tries bend law favor puts record oath voice man one Mr Trumps closest aides
I ashamed I chose take part concealing Mr Trumps illicit acts rather listening conscience Mr Cohen plans say I ashamed I know Mr Trump He racist He con man He cheat
But also perilous claims could highlight Mr Trumps potential legal exposure investigations already ensnared Mr Cohen Trump associates Mr Cohens testimony Oversight Committee first public Congress already spent 70 hours Mr Muellers investigators federal prosecutors New York investigating scheme hatched runup 2016 election make hush money payments pornographic film actress claimed affair Mr Trump
Mr Cohen account subjected deep scrutiny Republicans already begun hammer away questions past business dealings credibility They plan use Wednesdays hearing paint Mr Cohen selfcentered untrustworthy man ran afoul law including lying Congress caught sought spin lies former boss reduce time prison
Mr Cohen address past lies headon plans use documents try bolster certain claims He plans draw picture Mr Trump using type nonspecific directives often associated organized crime bosses American presidents
In conversations campaign time I actively negotiating Russia would look eye tell theres business Russia go lie American people saying thing Mr Cohen plans say In way telling lie
He add Mr Trump directly tell lie Congress Thats operates
Mr Cohen also plans say Mr Trumps personal lawyers approved testimony suggesting signed telling false version events House Senate Intelligence Committees Mr Cohen meeting committees private week part correct earlier false statements
Mr Trump knew directed Trump Moscow negotiations throughout campaign lied Mr Cohen say He lied never expected win election He also lied stood make hundreds millions dollars Moscow real estate project
Wednesdays congressional hearing focusing part much Trump knew hush money payments proposed Trump Tower Moscow
What Mr Trump said Mr Cohen emerged central question website BuzzFeed reported last month Mr Mueller evidence president personally directed former lawyer lie project testified Congress 2017 Mr Muellers office called report inaccurate
Mr Cohens account oath state something took place Mr Trump made overt directive
Mr Cohen also tell Congress Mr Trump advance knowledge longtime adviser Roger J Stone Jr WikiLeaks would publish hacked emails would damage opponent Hillary Clinton
In July 2016 days Democratic convention I Mr Trumps office secretary announced Roger Stone phone Mr Trump put Mr Stone speakerphone written remarks say Mr Stone told Mr Trump gotten phone Julian Assange Mr Assange told Mr Stone within couple days would massive dump emails would damage Hillary Clintons campaign Mr Trump responded stating effect wouldnt great
Mr Stone recently indicted charges include witness tampering false statements Congress denied reporters conversation took place The recent indictment made mention conversation state senior campaign official directed contact Mr Stone around period time material WikiLeaks
And Mr Cohen reference conversation claims observed presidents eldest son Donald Trump Jr father believes happened around time planned meeting Russian lawyer promising dirt Hillary Clinton
He claim heard direct reference meeting Instead Mr Cohen say recalled event The Times revealed June 2016 meeting taken place
I recalled Don Jr leaning father speaking low voice I could clearly hear saying The meeting set I remember Mr Trump saying OK good let know Mr Cohen say
CNN reported last year citing sources Mr Cohen witnessed younger Mr Trump describing meeting Russian lawyer father Mr Cohens lawyer Mr Davis later said provided information report erroneous
Much Mr Cohen say hush money payments made Mr Trumps behest final weeks 2016 campaign already revealed Federal Court news reports Mr Cohen charged campaign finance violation scheme But describe surreal scene Oval Office month Mr Trumps term president assured Mr Cohen reimbursement checks illegal payments way
Mr Cohen chronicle less legally dubious unflattering encounters well according prepared remarks He plans say candidate Mr Trump directed write letters high school college entities threatening release transcripts standardized test scores
He claim Mr Trump asked put reporters asking medical deferment Vietnam draft telling Mr Cohen privately medical records bone spurs said affected heel
You think Im stupid I wasnt going Vietnam Mr Trump said according Mr Cohen
And assert experience Mr Trump inflated wealth garner attention deflated assets lower tax bills
Mr Cohen plans describe former boss jumble conflicts one ultimately dishonorable person
Mr Trump enigma Mr Cohen say He complicated I He good bad But bad far outweighs good since taking office become worst version
Detailing hush money payments actress Mr Cohen reimbursed state affair fact say lying Mr Trumps wife Melania something deeply regrets She kind good person say I respect greatly deserve
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos Maggie Haberman
WASHINGTON Staring looming prison sentence lying Congress crimes Michael D Cohen arrived Capitol Hill last week declaring finally ready tell truth decade work alongside President Trump
I lied Mr Cohen presidents former lawyer told House Oversight Reform Committee outset explosive public hearing But I liar
At least Mr Cohens success clearing past actions nearly week public private testimony Capitol Hill become muddled
Mr Cohen laid detailed case complete documentary evidence Mr Trump fully participated fraudulent scheme closing weeks presidential campaign buy silence pornographic film actress claimed affair But left Washington Wednesday however inadvertently also handed Republican critics looking fresh material could weaponize try undermine credibility larger account
They wasted little time seizing Mr Trumps legal team Republicans Capitol Hill recent days accused Mr Cohen changing key details stories particularly possible job White House possible presidential pardon benefit seeking profit notoriety Mr Trump picked one points Thursday afternoon
Mr Cohens allies brushed criticism little distractions suggested release additional testimony gave private clear
Still conflicting disputed claims underscore Mr Cohens flaws witness least version investigations litigated publicly Congress
If todays answer different yesterdays answer gets reset says Im telling truth said Senator Richard M Burr Republican North Carolina chairman Senate Intelligence Committee also privately grilled Mr Cohen last week Prove
All indications remain however Mr Cohen proved valuable witness federal prosecutors working special counsel Robert S Mueller III vouched truthfulness Southern District New York appear built case least part around accounts
In public testimony House Oversight Committee last week Mr Cohen emphatically denied ever wanted White House job presidential pardon
I want go White House Mr Cohen asserted questioning
But still seated table hearing room one presidents sons Eric Trump took Twitter dispute one claims
Michael lobbying EVERYONE Chief Staff wrote It biggest joke campaign around office Did perjure Other members 2016 Trump campaign backed
Mr Cohen adamant sought pardon Mr Trump
I never asked would I accept pardon Mr Trump said hearing
A week testimony though Mr Cohens lawyer Lanny J Davis told The Wall Street Journal Mr Cohen directed former lawyer Stephen Ryan inquire possibility pardon Mr Trumps lawyers
Mr Davis maintained discrepancy statement Mr Cohens testimony insisting client given instructions Trump team dangled possible pardon part shared defense Mr Davis said Mr Cohen referring testimony period early July 2018 presidents former fixer split old boss
This time Mr Trumps eldest son Donald Trump Jr pounced
So Cohens lawyer admitting Cohen committed perjury last week said NEVER sought pardon presidents son Trump children closest Mr Cohen posted Twitter Just making sure page CC DOJ
Republicans Congress conspicuously sought hearings discredit Mr Cohen rather defend president quickly sought document claimed inconsistencies Two Oversight Committees top Republicans Representatives Jim Jordan Ohio Mark Meadows North Carolina referred Mr Cohen Justice Department possible prosecution perjury
Mr Cohens testimony wrote spectacular brazen attempt knowingly willfully testify falsely fictitiously numerous material facts They documented said six possible material misstatements Mr Cohen hearing Thursday added Mr Cohens statements pardons list
As I warned Mr Cohens appearance Oversight Committee relying admitted liar attack president beneath dignity Peoples House Mr Jordan said statement Thursday On Twitter asked committees chairman Representative Elijah E Cummings Democrat Maryland take claims seriously
Democrats careful qualify need additional testimony evidence corroborate Mr Cohens claims But dismissed Republicans accusations simple partisanship
I dont think people jump conclusions chance review evidence including testimony Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi Illinois Democratic member Oversight Intelligence Committees
People close Mr Cohen said expecting Republicans attack truthfulness
Mr Davis said interview Mr Trump allies reminiscent days working counsel Clinton White House congressional investigations led Republicans In case said goal distracting fact president reimbursing Mr Cohen
What would focus little tripup pebble something Mr Davis said intention getting everybody talk big picture obscured
When facing serious media storm said would everything could change subject something trivial The bigger picture Mr Davis said proven beyond doubt president United States committed felony writing checks
There public statements Mr Cohen scrutiny well
Mr Cohen testified public White House lawyers including Jay Sekulow edited false statement delivered Congress 2017 proposed Trump Tower project Moscow 2016 presidential campaign
There several changes made including going handle message message course length time Trump Tower Moscow project stayed remained alive said
Mr Cohen shared drafts statement documents intelligence committees Wednesday said supported public claim But Thursday Mr Davis confirmed CNN Mr Cohen fact written false line
Others familiar discussions took place time Mr Cohens original testimony said lawyers approved Trump legal teams proposals These people added Trump lawyers indication time dates cited Mr Cohen inaccurate
Nicholas Fandos reported Washington Maggie Haberman New York Emily Cochrane contributed reporting Washington
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Michael Wines
In first appearance House committee controlled Democrats Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross faced pointed questions Thursday sworn testimony decision last year add question citizenship 2020 census
Democrats hearing held House Committee Oversight Government Reform expressed incredulity Mr Rosss insistence sought question behest Justice Department explanation two federal judges said credible
Representative William Clay Missouri Democrat said one explanation Mr Rosss deliberations pass laugh test disclosed draft Justice Departments request written former member Trump administrations political transition team
The committees questioning came ahead Supreme Court hearing next month legality citizenship question challenged attorneys general 17 states District Columbia host cities counties Critics say adding question discourage immigrants filling form improve Republican political fortunes
The census count determine states gain lose seats House Representatives redistricting begins 2021
Republicans Thursday fulminated Democrats staging political sideshow aimed tainting Supreme Court hearing For part Mr Ross rebuffed questions repeatedly citing sixpage memo used announce citizenship question March 2018 largely refusing elaborate
The memo said Justice Department needed know noncitizens lived better determine whether racial ethnic composition political districts met mandates 1965 Voting Rights Act But federal judge Manhattan ruled January Mr Ross aides clearly decided add question shortly taking office February 2017 recruited Justice Department officials launder request another agency obtain cover decision already made
Mr Rosss efforts refute drew scorn Democrats Asked email May 2017 complained inaction monthsold request include citizenship question Mr Ross said actually frustrated Justice Departments slowness telling whether needed citizenship data
No conclusive alternative explanation including question emerged lawsuits But plaintiffs lawsuits claimed Democrats suggested Wednesday real reason asking census respondents citizenship frighten noncitizens even legal immigrants filling form That would depress population count among groups traditionally vote Democratic skew next reapportionment House Representatives political districts 2021
Noncitizens counted reapportionment House 14th Amendment requires apportioning based whole number persons state Mr Ross said court documents already showed discussed received information impact noncitizens reapportionment But said considered information considering citizenship question
The citizenship question challenged federal courts three states courts New York Maryland already ruled inclusion 2020 head count Judge Jesse M Furman Federal District Court Manhattan said Mr Ross broken veritable smorgasbord federal rules A second ruling federal court Maryland stated Mr Rosss decision violated constitutional requirement conduct accurate count population would depress response census



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ian Austen
OTTAWA Canadas former justice minister repeatedly warned countrys top public servant possible political fallout intervened criminal case involving major Canadian corporation according recording conversation released Friday
Jody WilsonRaybould also former attorney general gave recording parliamentary committee looking accusations Prime Minister Justin Trudeau top aides improperly pressured handle case
She also provided committee testified last month emails texts statement
Her accusations led political crisis Mr Trudeau dominated news coverage Canada last two months badly tarnished image feminist pledged bring clean ways politics
Read How Justin Trudeau Was Ensnared Scandal A Corruption Case Veiled Threats
In firestorm Ms WilsonRaybould resigned cabinet moved post veterans affairs Jane Philpott another minister Gerald Butts Mr Trudeaus close friend top political adviser Michael Wernick clerk privy council also resigned post
Mr Trudeau repeatedly denied anyone strongarmed Ms WilsonRaybould saying government concerned criminal conviction company would put thousands Canadian jobs risk
He preparing campaign reelection October trying divert countrys attention away controversy toward achievements plans future Fridays release documents likely help
In statement Ms WilsonRaybould lawyer regional chief First Nations Canadas west coast advocate Indigenous rights commented case portrayed media
A significant part public discourse matter touched issues race gender particular undeniable elements misogyny aimed wrote
Echoing Mr Trudeaus call last election different approach politics Ms WilsonRaybould thanked Canadians give hope wrote looked forward acting alongside future future truly politics differently
Want Canadian coverage inbox Sign Canada Letter newsletter
In recording 17 minutes long Mr Wernick clerk privy council told Ms WilsonRaybould repeatedly Mr Trudeaus concerns potential job losses company SNCLavalin convicted bribery charges banned government work
The company charged bribing Libyan officials dictatorship Col Muammar elQaddafi defrauding Libyan government
Mr Wernick said Mr Trudeau want anything illegal inappropriate asked Ms WilsonRaybould unwilling use new law could replace criminal conviction hefty monetary penalty
Ms WilsonRaybould warned clerk dangers government intervening case issuing orders prosecutors independent politicians Canada
Does understand gravity potentially could mean asked clerk referring Mr Trudeau This saving jobs This interfering one fundamental institutions This like breaching constitutional principle
While Mr Wernick confrontational conversation former minister persistent pushing settlement
It good idea prime minister attorney general loggerheads says one point
The recording made without Mr Wernicks knowledge Ms WilsonRaybould told committee statement This legal Canada acknowledged inappropriate
She said took call home Vancouver British Columbia didnt access staff member take notes
Asked comment Ms WilsonRayboulds submission committee Cameron Ahmad Mr Trudeaus director communications said email statement Friday night We focused moving forward team issues matter Canadians governing best interests country
Last week Mr Trudeau put new processes place government handles criminal matters ordered review splitting attorney generals job justice minister
But satisfied opposition Conservative party trying keep controversy alive
Conservatives demanded justice committee call Ms WilsonRaybould back testimony committee dominated Mr Trudeaus Liberal party refused The Conservative leader Andrew Scheer frequently accused Mr Trudeau coverup
Mr Trudeau careful criticize Ms WilsonRaybould Ms Philpott two ministers remain Liberal members Parliament
But last week Liberal caucus members cabinet ministers circumspect comes former colleagues
Canadians vote local members Parliament political parties prime minister As result political turmoil Ms WilsonRaybould triggered could affect colleagues chances reelection Octobers federal election
The criticisms became widespread last week Ms Philpott told Macleans magazine theres much story needs told wasnt coming theres attempt shut story Mr Trudeau aides
But statement Friday night Mr Ahmad said All facts table everyone involved shared perspective including prime minister
Some Liberal members Parliament say push expel Ms WilsonRaybould Ms Philpott caucus meeting scheduled Wednesday



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
The absurdity denying Trumps bigotry
By Michelle Goldberg
Opinion Columnist
Its hard say whats bigger taboo American politics racist calling someone one
Sure Republican Party occasionally try distance one egregiously hateful members like Representative Steve King Iowa lost committee assignments seeming defend white nationalism But mostly rightwing politicians media allies pretend point farce primary racial injustice America involves white people unfairly accused racism This makes talking openly evident racism president harder
To see works microcosm consider House Oversight Committee hearing Donald Trumps former consigliere Michael Cohen testified Wednesday Cohen said opening statement addition con man cheat Trump racist This clear people good faith given Trump leading figure birther movement defended white supremacist marchers Charlottesville claimed couldnt get fair hearing judge Mexican heritage mention examples
Listen The Argument podcast every Thursday morning Ross Douthat Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt
But Representative Mark Meadows Republican North Carolina strenuously objected Cohens description came seemed think airtight rejoinder Meadows white Lynne Patton AfricanAmerican woman longtime Trump employee Department Housing Urban Development stand behind quoted saying would work racist Checkmate
In past one person would often publicly vouch Trumps nonracism Omarosa Manigault Newman ApprenticestarturnedWhite House aide Then Manigault Newman came book calling Trump racist bigot misogynist As part promotional tour book released audio recording conversation Patton another AfricanAmerican Trump supporter Katrina Pierson strategizing handle fallout tape surface Trump using racist slur On recording Patton person Meadows called upon character witness president didnt seem doubtful Trump could said thing
Many liberals agog stunt Meadows left largely accepted responding charges racism pointing black friends never mind black employees clueless best Some white conservatives however seem convinced cant racist affectionate relationship person color And Representative Rashida Tlaib Democrat Michigan called Meadows toward end hearing aggrieved nearly melted
The fact someone would actually use prop black woman chamber committee alone racist said Tlaib PalestinianAmerican Redfaced indignant seemingly verge tears Meadows demanded Tlaibs words stricken record turned charge racism back said nieces nephews people color In stunning dramatization racial dynamics determine whose emotions honored hearing momentarily came halt Tlaib could assure Meadows didnt mean call racist committee chairman Elijah Cummings AfricanAmerican could comfort I could see feel pain Cummings told
So Meadows emerged victim There however another twist It turns 2012 Meadows said racist things Barack Obama promising least two occasions send American president home Kenya wherever As recordings comments ricocheted news Meadows didnt quite apologize tell reporters words way I shouldve answered questions In one instance appear responding question I tell anyone knows knows racial bone body added
I dont know Meadows racial bone I suspect may best arbiter constitutes bigotry Then comes Trump arbiter really needed Why Meadowss rediscovered birtherism newsworthy automatically understood pertinent debate racism lack thereof Because theres mainstream assumption racist say Obama secretly hails Africa This somehow doesnt translate mainstream assumption Trump rode birther conspiracies political prominence unrepentant racist He shunned Steve King shunned cant shunned president
This contradiction behind madness public life right Normalizing Trump become central mission Republican Party depends denial racism Not first time Tlaib got trouble pointing obvious president bigot bringing Patton exonerate Meadows demonstrated gross insensitivity
On Thursday Tlaib Meadows reportedly warm conversation House floor according CNN reporter hugged Im glad given much shes demonized short time Congress probably interest make Meadows feel better earlier exchange Who knows shes friendly enough maybe hell able cite relationship next time hes caught saying something awful
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Michelle Goldberg Opinion columnist since 2017 She author several books politics religion womens rights part team Pulitzer Prize public service 2018 reporting workplace sexual harassment issues michelleinbklyn
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Annie Karni
WASHINGTON As political appointee Department Housing Urban Development Lynne Patton become one prominent AfricanAmerican officials Trump administration color skin relationship President Trump led appearance Michael D Cohens congressional testimony Wednesday
Before getting job HUD Ms Patton event planner New York worked Trump Organization Eric Trump Foundation Anticipating Mr Cohens accusation President Trump racist Representative Mark Meadows Republican North Carolina invited Ms Patton appear rebuttal charge
You made demeaning comments president Ms Patton doesnt agree Mr Meadows said Mr Cohen called former boss racist noted among comments told black people would never vote stupid
As Ms Patton 46 stood silently behind Mr Meadows argued Ms Pattons loyalty Mr Trump proved could true
I asked Lynne come today personal capacity actually shed light Mr Meadows said She says daughter man born Birmingham Ala way would work individual racist
Mr Meadows asked Ms Pattons entire statement put record Ms Patton never opened mouth And shortly Mr Meadows called stand behind left chamber But brief cameo ignited heated exchange race later hearing
Representative Rashida Tlaib Democrat Michigan called insensitive possibly racist use black woman prop
As person color committee I felt moment I wanted express said House Oversight Reform Committees afternoon session Mr Cohen Im saying racist act
Mr Meadows fired back noting nieces nephews people color Appealing Representative Elijah E Cummings chairman committee Mr Meadows insisted even go direction wrong
Mr Cummings Maryland Democrat AfricanAmerican defended Mr Meadows calling one best friends
Ms Tlaib said intend call racist I apologize thats sounded like said I said someone general And everybody knows chamber Im pretty direct
But idea Ms Pattons mere presence loyalty Trump family would somehow rebut allegation president could racist widely immediately criticized Democrats inside outside House chamber
The stunt shows ignorant Republicans comes race Karine JeanPierre senior adviser progressive political organizing group MoveOnorg wrote Twitter Its also offensive beyond pale
Ms Patton said received invitation Mr Meadows appear hearing saw picture Instagram account posted Tuesday Under photograph smiling Mr Cohen Trump Grill described Mr Cohen one best friends decade
I sad Michael would world stage levy unsubstantiated claims particularly bigotry racism man singlehandedly helped raise five unbiased openminded children Ive ever known wrote
Ms Patton said statement submitted Wednesday House committee identical 387word caption Instagram photo
Ms Patton spoke Republican National Convention 2016 risen prominence Trump orbit tellall book Omarosa Manigault Newman another prominent AfricanAmerican official spent years defending Mr Trump
In memoir published fired White House December 2017 Ms Manigault Newman also accused Mr Trump racist And recordings released promoting book Ms Manigault Newman put taped discussion Ms Patton whether Mr Trump ever used Nword On tape discuss possibility Mr Trump used word recorded conversation remains unclear
Since Ms Patton HUDs New York regional director recently drawn attention spending month citys public housing eager demonstrate loyalty Trump family
But Ms Manigault Newman watching Mr Cohens testimony home said interview former colleague simply used
Bringing Lynne particular hearing show said Referring Mr Trumps practice staff members sign nondisclosure agreements said Everyone knows shes multiple NDA agreements could say anything disparaging president first family even wanted Ms ManigaultNewman added agreed Mr Cohens categorization Mr Trump racist
Ms Patton denies nondisclosure agreement
You dont need NDA youre simply telling truth said
An earlier version video caption article misspelled given name political appointee Department Housing Urban Development She Lynne Patton Lynn
OpinionKashana Cauley


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ian Austen
OTTAWA Prime Minister Justin Trudeau Canada trying weeks shift countrys attention accusations former justice minister government improperly pressured criminal case
On Wednesday members party helped blocking minister testifying matter parliamentary committee
Mr Trudeaus opponents immediately cried foul
What say Canadians said Tracey Ramsey member New Democratic Party That something hide
The committee controlled Mr Trudeaus Liberal party Liberal committee members speak reporters
Last month former justice minister Jody WilsonRaybould also former attorney general told House Commons justice committee Mr Trudeau aides persistently improperly pressured seek monetary penalty rather criminal conviction corruption case SNCLavalin giant Montrealbased company
The company accused paying tens millions dollars bribes Libyan officials country ruled Col Muammar elQaddafi
Last week Mr Trudeaus top political aide best friend college Gerald Butts also testified committee
He said Ms WilsonRaybould asked consider monetary penalty conviction would bar SNCLavalin government contracts potentially jeopardize 9000 Canadian jobs
He also told lawmakers Ms WilsonRaybould moved less prestigious post veterans affairs January resigned cabinet first offered job Indigenous affairs minister turned
After testimony Ms WilsonRaybould remains Liberal member Parliament said willing retestify And Conservatives pushed committee call back
But lawmakers shut meeting without formally considering inviting back As vote held adjourn several Conservative members shouted cover shame
Mr Trudeau directed committee members shut committees investigation SNCLavalin scandal Pierre Poilievre Conservative told reporters The justice committee become Justin committee
When Mr Trudeau held new conference controversy last week conspicuously offer apologies cited importance committee hearings well conflict interest investigation Parliamentary ethics commissioner
Since Liberals appear trying focus conversation budget presented Tuesday outline governments priorities leading national election October
Mr Trudeau Florida week family school break vacation
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ian Austen
OTTAWA If Prime Minister Justin Trudeau thought burgeoning political scandal could quietly contained hope vanished Thursday Canadians dissected explosive testimony former justice minister parliamentary committee
I dont think Ive ever seen minister strafe government like said Andrew MacDougall spokesman Stephen Harper Conservative prime minister Mr Trudeau replaced 2015 It reinforces peoples perception politicians kind bent
During nearly four hours testimony House Commons justice committee Wednesday evening former minister Jody WilsonRaybould repeatedly contradicted undermined Mr Trudeaus assertions neither staff acted improperly trying settle criminal case SNCLavalin multinational construction engineering company based Montreal
Latest update Trudeau promised fresh approach politics Now hes embroiled scandal
Ms WilsonRayboulds description 10 meetings 10 conversations series emails criminal case senior government officials dominated social media news coverage Canada Thursday Andrew Scheer Conservative opposition leader Parliament asked Royal Canadian Mounted Police open criminal investigation matter
Mr Trudeau running reelection fall already fending call resignation Mr Scheer well demands independent public inquiry
On Thursday night opposition parties led emergency debate House Commons condemned actions prime minister circle Liberal members reiterated Mr Trudeaus explanations quoted Ms WilsonRayboulds testimony one acted illegally undermined justice system
Parliaments ethics commissioner already looking accusations
Want Canadian coverage inbox Sign weekly Canada Letter newsletter
Mr Trudeau acknowledged others spoke Ms WilsonRaybould cutting deal case SNCLavalin charged paying millions dollars bribes officials Libya country controlled dictator Col Muammar elQaddafi denied acting improperly
The deal would seen company pay large penalty receive criminal conviction would barred government work decade possibly led leaving Canada cutting thousands jobs particularly Quebec
On Thursday Mr Trudeau rejected Ms WilsonRayboulds assertion government officials talks improper political interference delivered veiled threats
Canadians expect government look ways protect jobs grow economy thats exactly weve done every step way Mr Trudeau told reporters Montreal But weve also done way respected laws respected independence judiciary
Mr Trudeau predicted justice committee controlled Liberal Party ethics commissioner whose role largely limits monitoring potential conflicts interest vindicate
But several analysts said Mr Trudeau may find difficult avoid independent inquiry
While government doesnt want subject weeks intense scrutiny opening looks bad said Emmett Macfarlane associate professor political science University Waterloo Ontario
If drags added avoid process potential conclude something shady happens behind scenes time
John Duffy former adviser previous Liberal government pointed although Ms WilsonRaybould also served attorney general accused Mr Trudeau aides acting improperly acknowledged testimony one pressuring SNCLavalin broke laws specifically assured Canadians judicial system broken
Im trying make civics textbook example things work Mr Duffy said adding end Ms WilsonRaybould give company break prosecution continued
But governing style sausage making said
That however assessment shared Mr Trudeaus opponents cast affair group made mostly men ganging woman trying uphold principle judicial dependence
Norman Spector chief staff Brian Mulroney former Canadian prime minister said people likely view affair pretty simplistic story Liberals helping friend Quebec
They suspicions system rigged added Mr Spector recently adviser Green Party British Columbia
While Mr Spector believes Mr Trudeau vigorously resist calls inquiry noted prime minister already backed several positions controversy
Most notably Liberal majority justice committee kept Ms WilsonRaybould initial witness list hearings adding
On Thursday Gerald Butts close friend Mr Trudeaus stepped top political adviser last week controversy asked justice committee call witness
Last month Ms WilsonRaybould moved Canadas Justice Department Veterans Affairs step widely linked resistance SNCLavalin case This month quit cabinet entirely although declined offer specific reason decision
Mr Trudeau said Thursday reviewing status member Liberal caucus Parliament Ms WilsonRaybould represents constituency Vancouver British Columbia
While Liberals said privately several caucus members want removed action potential make political martyr
If I advising prime minister I would hesitant recommend take action Professor Macfarlane said
Follow Ian Austen Twitter ianrausten




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Its another sign President Trumps weakness
By David Leonhardt
Opinion Columnist
This article part David Leonhardts newsletter You sign receive weekday
President Trumps emergency declaration border wall based obvious falsehood There emergency USMexico border And goaded declaration Sean Hannity episode makes mockery federal government
But relative scheme Trumps misbehavior emergency declaration doesnt rank high Its corruption obstruction justice Its attempt undermine Americas alliance Western Europe And doesnt even matter much immigration policy If youre trying calibrate Trumprelated outrage take deep breath morning
A presidential declaration emergency order construct wall would stupid Lawfares Quinta Jurecic wrote It would wasteful It would test limits presidents authority law question But would step toward authoritarianism Heres longer version case
Listen The Argument podcast every Thursday morning Ross Douthat Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt
This challenged courts immediately pretty easy throw thing Neal Katyal former acting solicitor general predicted Lawrence ODonnells MSNBC show last night
Trumps fake emergency sign weakness strength tweeted The New Yorkers John Cassidy He ran wall two years Republican control Congress still couldnt get financed Weak president
And Philip Klein The Washington Examiner made conservative case declaration The hope limited government conservatives emergency declaration gets quickly enjoined eventually nixed federal court At least silver lining would legal precedent would set president attempt end around Congress
The China rivalry
Ive always thought Americans would come together realized faced dangerous foreign foe colleague David Brooks writes And lo behold one China Its become increasingly clear China grave economic technological intellectual threat United States world order
I agree United States complacent geopolitical challenge China poses
If subscriber newsletter subscribe You also join Twitter DLeonhardt Facebook
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
David Leonhardt former Washington bureau chief Times founding editor The Upshot head The 2020 Project future Times newsroom He 2011 Pulitzer Prize commentary columns financial crisis DLeonhardt Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Why American conservatism Trump may learn like state
By Ross Douthat
Opinion Columnist
Since conservatism became movement 1950s American right understood defending written American Constitution unwritten one well kind cultural social constitution deeply rooted national history checks balances official political system help sustain
Under constitution America three branches government great diversity power centers religious corporate familial philanthropic Under constitution important institutions national life arent political ones theyre institutions civil society flourished conservative argument goes precisely government kept within limits state hasnt coopted crushed rivals influence power
Thus conservatives preach virtues limited government isnt Herbert Hoovers rugged individual imagine defending They envision larger communitarian panoply civic associations religious denominations charities universities private schools needs protection jealousy centralizing state And tend assume keeping American corporation embedded communitarian system better way balance productivity innovation publicspiritedness trying regulate micromanage businesses good behavior
If wanted summarize intellectual uncertainties conservatives Trump era could say right trying figure whether unwritten American constitution imagines defending still exists And doesnt failing whether means limited government slogan strategy increasingly irrelevant comes shaping society conservatives would like America
The latter argument Donald Trump implicitly pressed optimistic opponents 2016 primaries They defenders American dream conservatives long defined dark conspiratorial tones businessman rival raised set uncomfortable questions Is America still nation thriving local communities energetic civic life Is America still deeply religious country strong churches growing denominations Are American businessmen basically public spirited eager compete equal terms government removes heavy hand natural allies political movement wedded patriotism religion
For years conservative critics sociologists intellectuals acknowledging answers might countrys oncerich associational civic religious life declining dissolving corporate America embraces conservative slogans keep taxes low unions weak otherwise seems postpatriotic performatively woke silent majority hardworking pious culturally conservative bluecollar families essentially defunct
Many best conservative books last decade Coming Apart Charles Murray The Fractured Republic Yuval Levin describe emerging America doesnt much resemble Tocquevillian familychurchcommunity landscape familiar past conservative descriptions American exceptionalism The latest example Alienated America Why Some Places Thrive While Others Collapse Tim Carney mix sociology shoeleather reporting convincingly situates rise Trump context Middle Americas communitarian collapse
But accounts like Carneys acknowledge role economic forces globalization trade deindustrialization dissolution family community also tend insist contra liberals new socialist vanguard also contra Trump cultural collapse isnt primarily driven economic policy decisions cant reversed public policies programs Instead tend suggest state interventions often replace community instead strengthening cast communitarian revival necessarily local project government play best supporting dontmakemattersworse kind role
These kind arguments still continuity basic conservative posture last generations But also increasingly partisans rupture right loose group statepower conservatives hint Tocquevillian dream dying cause limited government increasingly irrelevant turn would require conservatives become comfortable using power state engaged centralized policymaking specific social cultural ends mind
This argument visible controversy surrounding Tucker Carlsons monologue month ago stirred libertarian backlash calling Republicans use government policy make American life friendlier families particularly singleearner households It also informs difference Carneys book smart rightofcenter volume moment Oren Casss The Once Future Worker The two authors share certain common ground end Carney concludes current economic social ills solved even significantly ameliorated president central government Casss whole thesis wiser policymaking could make big difference unhappy heartlanders Carney profiles
But fullest case rupture declaring era limited government offered two recent essays conservative intellectual journals Dan McCarthys A New Conservative Agenda First Things Gladden Pappins Toward Party State American Affairs Both envision conservatism oriented less toward stateasenemy stateasdanger much toward stateasshaper stateasharmonizer For instance McCarthys account economic nationalism Donald Trump transmuted something less inchoate effective
Economic nationalism tariffs It less economic nationalism takes account different needs different walks life regions country serving whole serving parts drawing together In past challenge harmonize farmers urban capital labor The challenge balance groups postindustrial classes well strengthen productive economy largely fictional economy administrators clerks All sake prosperity raw dollar terms national economy provides basis healthy culture citizens families flourish
Pappin makes similar argument political coalitions especially right adapt current challenge illiberal postliberal forces populist socialist
Rather asking question What conservativesprogressives considerable advances made certain purely practical considerations How integrity national political community assured How commercial activity technological development continue turned toward common good toward strategic advantage What reins power state ensure common good citizens
The likely answers practical questions Pappin contends require conservatives make practical use administrative state rightwing ends rather constantly returning plaintive nostalgic counterproductive calls abolition
A hostile reader essays libertarian liberal might respond vision rightwing governments seek reshape culture mediate classes resembles nothing much early20th century fascism A sympathetic reader would say plenty space statefriendly conservative politics movement conservatism Mussolini McCarthy Pappin envisioning might better described blend American Hamiltonian tradition 21stcentury update French Gaullism
And subtle reader might say theyre trying provide theory move Republican Party power tends make anyway last two GOP presidents sense big government conservatives far without strategy seriousness selfconsciousness required make project success
I enough skepticism efficacy state power uncertain project succeed But postTrump conservatives likely drawn statepower conservatism theoretical ambition sense political necessity
The earlier conservative selfunderstanding right defending nongovernmental institutions power state tacitly depended assumption many nongovernmental institutions would friendly conservative values But civil society decayed recent decades remaining power centers also become increasingly leftwing
Alreadyliberal institutions universities Hollywood big foundations mass media uniformly allied left even recent past Corporate America happily donates Republicans fears Bernie Sanders presidency cultural issues big business courts younger customers progressive lobbying propaganda In religion Catholicism Pope Francis aspires scandals permitting ease way leftward well leaving evangelical Christianity isolated bastion little cultureshaping power
Yet conservatives still win White House Congress means one power center hope control one notionally organized limit administrative state
If assume people tend seek power devise justifications seeking power plausibly exercised statepower conservatives may need strongest intellectual arguments change way right thinks state Instead limited government conservatism may give way attempt improve Trumpism clearer blueprints smarter cadres reason changes often happen political ideology people whose thinking changing feel dont choice
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTOpinion Instagram join Facebook political discussion group Voting While Female
Ross Douthat Opinion columnist The Times since 2009 He author several books recently To Change Church Pope Francis Future Catholicism You follow Twitter DouthatNYT
You follow Twitter DouthatNYT
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Eurotunnel sued Department Transport handling contracts provide extra freight capacity
By Amie Tsang
LONDON Add list headaches faced Britains government frantically tries prepare Brexit 33 million pound 44 million payment settle lawsuit brought Eurotunnel company operates rail link France Britain
Eurotunnel sued Britains Department Transport handling contracts provide extra transportation capacity event country leaves European Union without deal place
The company accused British government limiting competition open bidding contracts worth millions dollars according court filings
In December Britains government signed contracts DFDS Danish shipping company Brittany Ferries French company supply extra freight capacity bring essential goods medicines country event nodeal Brexit
The government also signed contract Seaborne Freight ferry company later found BBC run ferry service The deal came heavy criticism one lawmaker calling shell company The firm also ridiculed echoing website terms conditions business specializing takeout meals Seaborne Freight pulled contract
The government settled case Eurotunnel avoid prolonged legal tussle tries make arrangements March 29 country scheduled exit European Union
Government departments Britains businesses furiously preparing case country leaves European Union without agreement setting terms separation There fears lack clarity port arrangements could lead gridlock roads problems getting food medicine people Britain
We taking steps ensure supply chains continue function whatever circumstances departure mitigation place avoid disruption borders Stephen Barclay Brexit secretary said statement Friday
Chris Grayling transport secretary added While disappointing Eurotunnel chose take legal action contracts place ensure smooth supply vital medicines I pleased agreement ensure Channel Tunnel ready postBrexit world
Eurotunnel agreed withdraw case take unspecified actions improve security traffic flow
Eurotunnel concluded outofcourt agreement secretary state transport ensure Channel Tunnel remains preferred route vital goods travel EU UK company said
Amie Tsang general assignment business reporter based London covered variety topics including gender pay gap aviation London Fatberg amietsang
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday Want email Sign
Bipartisan negotiations forge border security deal broke yesterday potentially setting federal government another shutdown ahead Friday deadline
What happened The impasse appears center Democratic demands limit number unauthorized immigrants already country could detained Immigration Customs Enforcement officers according aides familiar talks according NYT Republicans wanted exception cap criminals Democrats said proposed 16500bed cap left enough room
Whats stake The last shutdown longest US history cost American economy 11 billion tanked President Trumps political standing public Another shutdown could cause economic harm hitting IRS tax season starts
Whats next Lawmakers could pass another shortterm spending bill though many reluctant punt final budget agreement Meanwhile Mr Trump preparing hold rally supporters El Paso Many city arent happy But really two choices according Axios shut government declare national emergency get border wall money options horrible
The Amazon founder risked embarrassment going public said extortion attempt The National Enquirer So far hes scoring big points Saturday Night Live jokes aside
His disclosure gotten results Federal prosecutors reviewing extortion claim NYT reports citing unnamed sources If The Enquirers parent company broke law would violation nonprosecution agreement paying hush money help President Trump 2016 A lawyer publishers chairman said yesterday company committed crime
And hes winning PR battle At time billionaires reviled Maureen Dowd NYT writes richest dude earth managed come traumatic week inspiring admiration Glenn Greenwald The Intercept counters would odd Mr Bezos gain pity given Amazon critical partner US government building evermore invasive militarized sprawling surveillance state
Where The Enquirer go wrong Danny Westneat The Seattle Times points picked fight head company powerful got Seattle change tax policies 3 billion tax incentives New York office space You dont pressure Amazon It goes way around Mr Westneat writes
But Mr Bezos could still lose Jon Swartz Barrons notes Amazon shares fell 26 percent Friday His handson management considered crucial success company anything pulls attention away daytoday management least concern investors Mr Swartz writes
Fears Britains withdrawal EU could roil economies officially spread across Atlantic
Wall Street warned Brexits impact With less seven weeks go UK due leave EU several SP 500 groups first time put Wall Street formal notice risks London Brussels fail reach divorce deal FT reports Companies like Lockheed Martin McCormick Expedia Cadbury spoken
Driving concern fears depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable Britain costs imported British goods could rise Theres also fear broader effect Brexit global political economic stability
American banks also nervous While US banks want Britain maintain closest possible ties EU Brexit UK banks insurers anxious dont become beholden new laws made Brussels Bloomberg reports
More Brexit news The EUs chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said reopen existing Brexit deal open reworking political declaration accompanies The British government trying secure extra two weeks win concessions Europe promising lawmakers another vote Britains withdrawal options And Prime Minister Theresa May also offered concessions opposing Labour Party break current impasse Parliament
Americans getting rude surprise Their refunds appear getting smaller despite President Trump Republicans passing huge set tax cuts year ago
How big drop The average refund 1865 84 percent smaller average refund period last year Reuters reports citing figures IRS Heather Long WaPo adds number people receiving refund fallen nearly 25 percent far The IRS warns read much figures part data result delayed processing due government shutdown
Why happening Its actually sign Americans paying taxes People generally got piece tax cut last year gradually form lower withholding paychecks Joseph Rosenberg UrbanBrookings Tax Policy Center told WaPo
People angry nonetheless The WaPo reports People already taken social media using hashtag GOPTaxScam vent anger Many blame President Trump Republicans shrinking refunds Some Twitter even said wouldnt vote Trump seeing refunds slashed
The last class tech companies gained valuations 1 billion including Uber Airbnb remade entire industries Dont expect next wave nearly flashy according Erin Griffith NYT
Who They names like Benchling Checkr Zola many create software specific industries including data analysis systems farmers background checks gig workers
Why arent exciting predecessors Ms Griffith points Uber Airbnb peers built global empires simply taking existing businesses like taxis food delivery hotels making mobile Easy opportunities disrupt traditional businesses dried forcing new companies find smaller niches
But dont underestimate potential Maybe sexy companies first wave venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded NYT But Anand Sanwal data provider CB Insights said still growing fast adding If one highmomentum companies investors going beating door much interest investing next big winner
Christine Lagarde managing director International Monetary Fund warned yesterday global economy growing slowly anticipated
She sees four big risks Trade tensions tariff escalations financial tightening uncertainty related Brexit outcome spillover impact accelerated slowdown Chinese economy clouds horizon told World Government Summit Dubai
And could spell trouble When many clouds added takes one lighting bolt start storm
But IMF thinks Fed playing smart The fact Fed put pause raising rates going provide lot support economy Gita Gopinath IMFs top economist told FT We endorse Fed view datadriven approach
President Trump expected sign executive order today meant spur development regulation artificial intelligence Cade Metz NYT writes
The news Mr Trump introduce American AI Initiative aims better educate workers field improve access cloud computing services data needed build AI systems promote cooperation foreign powers
Context AI experts across industry academia government long called Trump administration make development artificial intelligence major priority Mr Metz writes adding concerned China could surpass United States development technologies
But The order set aside funds AI research development Mr Metz adds administration provided details put new policies effect
Steve Mandel stepped head hedge fund Lone Pine Capital
Among reasons Santander rescinded offer hire investment banker Andrea Orcel Reportedly desire attend World Economic Forum Davos Switzerland
Kristina Salen former chief financial officer shopping site Etsy joined Moda Operandi luxury fashion startup CFO
The English Premier League looking America successor CEO Richard Scudamore British candidates appear uninterested job
Deals
The aluminumparts maker Arconic plans break WSJ
Apollo Global Management reportedly near deal buy Cox Enterprisess 14 regional TV stations 3 billion Reuters
The medical equipment maker Smith Nephew reportedly held talks buy NuVasive maker medical instruments spinal surgeries 3 billion FT
TPG Capital closed seventh Asiafocused private equity fund 46 billion Reuters
Politics policy
Democratic lawmakers proposing steep new taxes superrich public loves NYT
Senator Michael Bennet Democrat Colorado potential presidential candidate says cutting private health insurance part Medicare bad opening offer Politico
President Trump succeeded dividing Democrats warning socialism Hill
The biggest star Clive Daviss exclusive preGrammys gala Speaker Nancy Pelosi AP
Trade
Trade talks US China resume today Beijing Straits Times
White House officials reportedly discussed summit meeting President Trump President Xi Jinping China MaraLago next month resolve trade fight Axios
The trade agreement replace Nafta faces uphill climb Congress Axios
Tech
Some Amazon executives reportedly reconsidering decision set campus New York opponents think might bluff WSJ Recode
Huawei threatened sue Czech Republic countrys cybersecurity agency rescind warning risk company poses nations critical infrastructure NYT
Sprint accused ATT false advertising saying rival incorrectly telling customers receiving 5G data service WSJ
Tesla may finally delivering Model 3s cant keep servicing WSJ
Best rest
A new activist hedge fund Impactive Capital rarity Its female minorityled WSJ
Household staples diapers baking soda may get expensive WSJ
US colleges raised 467 billion year ended last June led Harvard 14 billion Bloomberg
Heres rundown 100 sustainable US companies according Barrons Barrons
How Feds recent Uturn rates cascaded global markets NYT
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ivan Nechepurenko
MOSCOW Russian lawmakers moving restrict freedom speech passed bills Thursday would introduce jail terms fines insulting government online spreading socalled fake news
The bills seen effort preempt control public criticism Russias prolonged economic stagnation pushes Kremlins approval ratings They reflect nearly twodecadelong project President Vladimir V Putin put information flow state control push made difficult growth internet
The new measures await final passage upper chamber parliament Mr Putins signature He expressed support restrictions insulting state online
One set bills passed lower house Duma would subject private individuals fines 3000 15 days administrative arrest insulting government online Individuals would face fines 6000 posting termed fake news
Another bill would demand news media outlets websites remove information shows clear disrespect society state symbols Russian Constitution government Internet service providers website owners would one day remove insults face complete block
Lawmakers also passed bill would force websites immediately remove false publicly important information government watchdog deems threat public order
The measures stipulate clearly would considered fake news The authors said interviews would determined state prosecutors government communications watchdog
Critics said measures loosely defined allow government block information online finds undesirable
With bills wording vague possible Vladimir A Ryzhkov opposition politician said Facebook create possibilities widest possible arbitrariness law enforcement As result societys trust government fall public atmosphere poisoned
As Russians switch television largely controlled state Kremlin allies internet main source information government made keeping web control top priority
In February lawmakers proposed creating infrastructure separate Russia global internet altogether Last year state banned Telegram popular messaging app
The Russian government opened assault socalled fake news even United States accused Moscow engaging practice disinformation campaign intended sway 2016 American presidential election
The new bills passed Russians trust government agencies Mr Putin particular steadily declining For first time since annexation Crimea 2014 number Russians say country heading wrong direction surpassed say opposite The finding came poll conducted January independent pollster Levada
The share people approve Mr Putins work president declined 20 percentage points since reached postCrimea peak 86 percent 2015
Nikolai F Uskov editor Forbes Russia magazine frequent commentator said bills governments weapon media
The government clearly getting ready protest moods grow reflected publications social networks media said speaking Ekho Moskvy radio station I dont think save state added wave anger sweep away restrictions
Follow Ivan Nechepurenko Twitter INechepurenko


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By David Zucchino Fahim Abed
KABUL Afghanistan Afghanistans coalition government fired Tuesday commissioners directed fraudtainted parliamentary elections last fall country prepares presidential race summer watches leaders sidelines peace talks unfold Americans Taliban
The move follows push opposition politicians postpone election form interim government part peace deal could include Taliban President Ashraf Ghani fumed governments exclusion AmericanTaliban talks insisted election held time
The firings came series meetings government civil society groups political parties portrayed badly needed consensus electoral reform The commissioners called dismissal political decision officials hope serve new government
The election already pushed back April July The panel behind decision Independent Election Commission one two whose members removed Tuesday
Replacement commissioners named Mr Ghani coalition partner Abdullah Abdullah charged preparing presidential election feature men candidates
Mr Ghani said central government strong mandate negotiate behalf country The Taliban dealing directly Americans refused include Afghan government consider illegitimate
Zalmay Khalilizad leader American delegation said last week hoped secure peace deal July election He said last month United States Taliban agreed principle framework peace deal
The Afghan election commission widely accused sowing confusion disarray October parliamentary elections three years late tainted accusations voterigging bribery incompetence Winners certified third 250 seats Parliament
The attorney generals office prosecuted 313 people accused violations including forging selling election stickers national ID cards needed cast vote
In statement late Tuesday office said 12 commissioners two election bodies barred leaving country investigators appointed look charges abuse authority
The firings set legal confrontation dismissed members saying move violated election law
The amendment election law presidential decree president also candidate Constitution commissioners said joint statement This political decision legal constitutional one
Mr Ghanis deputy spokesman Shahhusain Murtazawi said election results remain place He said protests could lodged second affected commission called Independent Election Complaint Commission judicial groups The head commissions secretariat remains place acting director
Given officials administered election fired roughly 2000 losing candidates expected protest If results reexamined canceled would affect preparations presidential election already behind schedule assurance required funding place
One losing parliamentary candidate Fawad Aman said anyone seated Parliament would remain cloud suspicion And commissioners punished said Afghans could lose faith electoral process refrain voting
If dismissed prosecuted means political game president influence election commissions presidential election Mr Aman said
Nayim Ayubzada head Transparent Election Foundation Afghanistan independent election monitoring group said firings made hastily government paid little attention legal process addressing fraud accusations
We worry decision president candidate may things turn things favor Mr Ayubzada said If decides hastily election issues raise questions transparency elections
Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah appoint new heads members commissions selected candidates put forward civil society groups political parties within next week
Supporters firings said necessary make commissioners accountable bungling expensive election process secured Afghan forces amid raging war Each Afghan election bankrolled international donations proved least problematic last
The 2014 presidential election fraudulent two leading candidates claimed victory nearly tore country apart prompted Western officials step mediators John Kerry secretary state negotiated powersharing government top two candidates Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah promise would prioritize election reforms avoid another fiasco
The two men slow make progress reforms given infighting government war Taliban Now Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah get name new commissioners oversee election peak summer fighting season peace process plays
Those challenges left many Afghans skeptical new commissioners Mr Ayubzada election observer said doubted presidential election would even held year process overshadowed ongoing peace talks political dealing
Mujib Mashal contributed reporting Kandahar Afghanistan




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Tuesday Want email Sign
Democratic Republican negotiators said last night agreement principle border security funding could keep federal government open
The deal includes 138 billion pay 55 miles new fencing technology staffing border protection Its 57 billion President Trump demanded build 200mile wall Democrats waived demand limits detention capacity immigrants
But theres guarantee go The House Senate would vote pact Mr Trump would sign I think everyone say Good work Representative Kay Granger Texas one Republican negotiators said Still rally Texas last night Mr Trump insisted build wall And influential Republican commentators like Fox News host Sean Hannity called deal garbage compromise
The remaining alternatives hugely unattractive Politico notes potential White House plan redirect unspent federal funds toward wall would create firestorm And another government shutdown could hit US economy endanger aviation safety
The British prime minister scheduled update lawmakers later today progress negotiations withdrawing EU
She big favor ask Mrs May focused making changes socalled backstop exit deal designed prevent hard border Ireland Northern Ireland She made little headway Bloomberg explains plan today
Mrs May update Parliament progress talks EU outline motion shell put MPs debate Thursday office said
She expected ask Parliament restate demand remove backstop Withdrawal Agreement promise vote hasnt brought renegotiated deal back Parliament Feb 27
The aim reassure members across House Commons concerned May deliberately running clock risking potentially disastrous nodeal divorce
But EU still isnt budging Its chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said yesterday something give British side
Yet Mrs May could force plan Parliament Bloomberg explains though also admits lot could go wrong
More Brexit news Britain weakest economic growth six years last year It signed trade deal Switzerland biggest since 2016 Brexit referendum And government sued awarding contract freight shipments nodeal Brexit ferry company boats
The former Fed chairman recently sat Ray Dalio Bridgewater Capital wideranging conversation topics state US principles good government Dont time watch Here highlights
On Washington Mr Volcker lamented condition US government repeating past criticisms Youve got presidents dont seem mind either personal behavior making outrageous statements true told Mr Dalio You Congress thats unable function effectively
On Civil Service For former Fed chairman important problem solve make government work appear honorable Public administrations bad word told Mr Dalio leaving important government departments without effective leaders
What Mr Volcker He set Volcker Alliance meant help schools train future government officials Its great trick Mr Volcker said How get expertise leadership need still respect popular desire
Optimism personal finances hasnt high 16 years according study Gallup
Sixtynine percent Americans expect better time next year That two percentage points alltime high 71 percent recorded March 1998 according Gallup Thats survey carried Jan 2 Jan 10 middle government shutdown
Half respondents say theyre better year ago That figure consistently half since 2007 Gallup says
The optimism hard overstate Only 11 times 109 polls stretching back 1976 least half polled said better financial shape year prior Gallup notes Only 114 polls going back 1977 Americans optimistic personal finances coming year today
Europe sleepwalking oblivion people Europe need wake late George Soros writes opinion piece Project Syndicate
Neither leaders ordinary citizens seem understand experiencing revolutionary moment range possibilities broad eventual outcome thus highly uncertain
The next inflection point elections European Parliament May 2019 Unfortunately antiEuropean forces enjoy competitive advantage balloting
The first step defending Europe enemies internal external recognize magnitude threat present The second awaken sleeping proEuropean majority mobilize defend values EU founded
The firm said yesterday would buy Solium Capital manages stock paid corporate employees 900 million Its biggest deal major Wall Street firm since financial crisis whats rationale
The bank wants millennial wealth Soliums clients include startups like Instacart Stripe could go public multibilliondollar valuations making employees rich
Wall Street approves strategy Analysts Evercore ISI wrote yesterday Solium gives Morgan Stanley real path towards organic growth next generation clients many investors questioning Matthew Klein Barrons wrote last week millennials could hold key improving American productivity wealth
And banks seem newly hungry deals Days Morgan Stanleys acquisition BBT agreed buy SunTrust biggest bank merger since 2008 crisis Banking chiefs seem heartened loosened regulations sector eager capitalize acquisitions Wed like James Gorman Morgan Stanleys CEO told WSJ And JPMorgan Chase reportedly considered buying asset manager WisdomTree according Bloomberg
Its eight months Mario Draghis finishes nonrenewable term president European Central Bank Choosing successor important difficult WSJ reports
Investors trusted Mr Draghi WSJ says navigate toxic mix risks Europe Brexit trade wars
At least five unofficial candidates appear running replace according European officials two Frenchmen two Finns German The candidates different economic philosophies clear frontrunner
The winner might chosen balance nationalities EUs leadership rather purely merit The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo chief executive Centre European Policy Studies Brussels think tank risks Its systemically important job Europe man controls show said It go badly wrong
WSJ reporters scoured fourthquarter results US companies attempt better understand slowing Chinas economic growth
What found Many companies struggling weaker demand export manufacturers China pulling back amid fears trade tensions worsen Austen Hufford Theo Francis WSJ report Retailers companies catering Chinese consumers face signs weakness among countrys growing middle class They buying fewer cars phones traveling less
The conclusion The indications slowing growth broad still modest Mr Hufford Mr Francis write
Just half PGEs directors stand reelection year utility filed bankruptcy amid California wildfires
ColgatePalmolive named Noel Wallace COO chief executive replacing Ian Cook
GV venture capital arm Alphabet hired David Schenkein former CEO Agios Pharmaceuticals cohead life sciences
Apple named Frank Casanova longtime iPhone executive first head marketing augmented reality
Sony appointed Jim Ryan CEO PlayStation business
Deals
Colony Capital investment firm founded real estate mogul Tom Barrack explore selling assets activist hedge fund Blackwells Capital took stake Colony
SoftBanks Vision Fund led 940 million investment Nuro driverless delivery startup FT
Amazon agreed buy Eero makes wireless routers advance smarthome ambitions Reuters
Peloton makes videostreaming stationary bikes treadmills reportedly interviewing banks prepare IPO WSJ
DoorDash delivery startup reportedly process raising 500 million 6 billion valuation WSJ
Reddit raised 150 million Tencent users fear censorship Verge
Politics policy
President Trump Gov Andrew Cuomo New York meet today discuss revising cap deductions state local taxes Bloomberg
Democratic presidential contenders see small donors rather traditional wealthy backers test viability 2020 race WaPo
Contrary popular belief Mr Trumps presidency hurt Americas gun lobby NYT editorial
Trade
President Trump reportedly eager meet President Xi Jinping China discuss trade deal Bloomberg
American tariffs Chinese goods reduced two countries trade imbalance without helping US companies Axios
Chinese investments Israeli tech companies raising security concerns WSJ
Tech
Whats like contractor one Apples less glamorous offices Not much fun Bloomberg
Mars One Ventures promised oneway trips red planet bankrupt Verge
If New York doesnt want new Amazon campus Newark Bloomberg
Alphabet Microsoft discreetly warning AI could harm brands Wired
The Jeff Bezos saga
The American Media Inc lawyer reportedly sought deal Mr Bezoss private photos Amazon Kindle executive WSJ
American Media reportedly asked Justice Department whether needed register foreign agent ties Saudi Arabia WSJ
The WaPo found tricky situation reporting owners fight The National Enquirer cause battle NYT
Best rest
Could leveraged loans sink US economy FT
For two years Goldman Sachs bet companies strong balance sheets Not anymore CNBC
The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says theres mania share buybacks hes worried social consequences CNBC
Toys R Us planning comeback later year NYT
Is corporate America headed toward earnings recession DealBook
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Chinas openingup policies led improvements life business

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role posts creation
Advertisement
Supported
New Zealands prime minister moved swiftly ban weapons mass killing gunman attacked two mosques
By The Editorial Board
The editorial board represents opinions board editor publisher It separate newsroom OpEd section
The murder 50 Muslim worshipers New Zealand allegedly 28yearold Australian white supremacist long scrutinized way violent hatreds spawned staged social media internet But world learn way Jacinda Ardern New Zealands prime minister responded horror
Almost immediately last Fridays killings Ms Ardern listened constituents outrage declared within days government would introduce new controls militarystyle weapons Christchurch shooter many mass killers United States used rampages And delivered
On Thursday Ms Ardern announced ban militarystyle semiautomatic automatic weapons parts used turn rifles weapons highcapacity ammunition magazines Its us said national interest safety
Earlier week told Parliament social media sites must address ease internet used spew hate images violence We simply sit back accept platforms exist said responsibility place published said It case profit responsibility
Ms Ardern didnt propose immediate measures limit reach Facebook Twitter internet publishers obvious could done without trampling freedom speech But made clear believed social media platforms like gun manufacturers dealers bore responsibility carnage visited Christchurch many communities recent years
The new gun proposal require considerable finetuning defining becomes law New Zealands existing laws relatively lenient large percentage estimated 12 million 15 million firearms owned 250000 people registered It known many become illegal new laws
But display one deranged man weapons designed combat seemed persuade majority New Zealanders strong majority Parliament need ban rapidfiring weapons
That attitude stood stark contrast way National Rifle Association political allies United States resisted restrictions weapons like AR15 semiautomatic rifle used several mass killings
In New Zealand took one mass shooting awaken government In United States even string mass killings 26 dead school Newtown Conn 49 nightclub Orlando 58 concert Las Vegas 17 school Parkland Fla enough Nor fact 73 percent Americans say needs done curb gun violence according recent polling
The ban terrorists weapon choice one areas Ms Ardern showed leadership looks like time crisis In lieu trite messages donned black head scarf led group politicians visit victims families speaking without script school victims attended urged pupils let New Zealand place tolerance racism Ever She told grieving families We know grief walk every stage
And striking gesture refused utter name suspected killer He may sought notoriety New Zealand give nothing said Not even name
After atrocity worlds leaders unite clearly condemning racism sharing grief victims stripping haters weapons Ms Ardern shown way
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Get 3D view Chinas government plans 2019

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role posts creation
Advertisement
Supported
The journalist Maria Ressa facing criminal charges social media threats
By Kara Swisher
Ms Swisher covers technology contributing opinion writer
Harassing journalists one Rodrigo Dutertes specialties Mr Duterte strongman president Philippines going Maria Ressa former CNN reporter founder online news site Rappler two years The campaign combines criminal charges Facebook smears intended tarnish reputation spread lies work
Last week Ms Ressa spent night jail charge cyberlibel 2012 article Rappler published allegations corrupt ties businessman judge
When spoke Skype Thursday attempts silence said I adjust normal even nothing normal She added It scare meant scare everyone else
Technically spent night conference room rather cell National Bureau Investigation agents trying nice told
It perhaps small gracious act relentless assault Ms Ressa Rappler
Kara Swisher answered questions Twitter
Rappler President Dutertes brutal regime publishing articles extrajudicial killings human rights abuses In mid2017 State Union speech president struck back criticizing Rappler owned Americans investors indeed United States He attempted get license revoked Ms Ressa charged tax evasion Then arrest cyberlibel considered criminal act
While seemed tired legal roadblocks undaunted even funny spoke I think I paid bail Imelda Marcos said referring shoeloving wife longtime ruler Philippines went ignominy
It morning Manila journalism Instead adding security Rapplers offices protect 100 employees forking money pay lawyers Legal fees already account quarter operating budget said
She also contending relentless manipulation social media says governmentfriendly sources spread false information Rappler These trolls focus Facebook Filipinos get news She called foreign agent troublemaker tax cheat traitor ugly
Last week two people Ms Ressa suspects working government managed slip Rapplers building broadcast video Facebook Live outside door urging protests social media attacks Among comments feed Hang Ressa Bomb Ressa Behead
Government officials said enjoying attention She Ms Ressa reported video Facebook She already provided company copious evidence way platform abused Mr Dutertes troll army This time Facebook responded blocking user posted video 30 days may popped Facebook Singapore though
Its catandmouse game Ms Ressa said Facebook haphazard enforcing rules While individual executives helpful Ms Ressa said shes hard time dealing Facebook responded slowly
Facebook worlds largest distributor news yet refused gatekeeper told recent onstage interview And allow lies actually get playing field facts taints entire public sphere At point said Facebook take lies
As noted Thursday night A lie told million times truth On social media though like billion times
Ms Ressa said wished tried stop online abuse sooner We ignored far long lesson I learned
She said would continue try work Facebook social media outlets Looking social media feed impossible since I cant defend I watch reputation dragged said Lately Ms Ressa said attacks Twitter worsened And I weirdly pummeled platform users calling Ms Ressa con artist since I posted I speaking
To try deal Ms Ressa said thinks lot Reinhold Niebuhrs Serenity Prayer I look stuff area control like making sure staff safe business able continue said weary sigh I dont want story
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram sign Opinion Today newsletter
Kara Swisher editor large technology news website Recode producer Recode Decode podcast Code Conference contributing opinion writer karaswisher Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Charlotte GrahamMcLay
WELLINGTON New Zealand In New Zealand members public accustomed seeing top government officials grocery store street unencumbered security guards common parts world
The countrys prime minister Jacinda Ardern even jokingly recounted Stephen Colbert The Late Show approached chatty strangers shopped maternity bras
But Thursday morning government minister attacked walking work alone capital city leading Ms Ardern warn New Zealanders unusual level access countrys lawmakers taken granted
We environment New Zealand politicians accessible thats something feel proud Ms Ardern said We serve people But todays events really show take granted
The victim James Shaw 45 coleader leftleaning Green Party minister climate change told police grabbed hit Thursday morning attack leaving black eye cuts face After treated scene went attend meeting Parliament admitting examination hospital remained Thursday afternoon
Pete Huggins Green Party spokesman said Mr Shaw told police assailant knew name although officers said whether believe attack planned motivated
The episode rattled New Zealand Mr Huggins described closeknit community open society
Unlike many countries including United States Britain prime minister lawmaker accompanied roundtheclock security personnel government ministers lawmakers Residents Wellington New Zealands capital regularly see elected officials walking cycling streets alone politicians opt take public transportation rather using government vehicles
I would hate see go Marama Davidson lawmaker leads Green Party Mr Shaw said news conference Thursday
It would shame lose way people approach us access us country added Thats one things I value way politics New Zealand
The police arrested charged 47yearold man attack Mr Shaw The man police identify appear Wellington District Court Friday
Lawmakers across political spectrum joined condemning attack Wellingtons mayor Justin Lester wrote social media assailants behavior outrageous New Zealanders lucky unparalleled access elected representatives
Members public also expressed shock One Twitter user branded attack Mr Shaw assault democracy Another said hoped attack awful one canary coal mine moment New Zealand
Bryce Edwards veteran New Zealand political commentator said downtoearth qualities commanded respect New Zealanders We like politicians one us us said
While clear whether attack politically motivated lawmakers took opportunity denounce said trend toward overthetop reactions people disagreed politicians
David Parker trade minister lawmaker centerleft Labour Party cited called extreme opinion feeding political biases causing instability people fed social media platforms
Ms Ardern stopped short saying security beefed lawmakers The episode took place innercity area Wellington minutes Ms Arderns residence
Violence New Zealand lawmakers rare The last one make global headlines recent years 2016 government minister Steven Joyce hit face sex toy thrown protester episode caused mirth fury


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur
SHANGHAI The Chinese electronics giant Huawei preparing sue United States government barring federal agencies using companys products according two people familiar matter
The lawsuit filed Eastern District Texas Huawei American headquarters according people requested anonymity discuss confidential plans The company plans announce suit week
The move could aimed forcing United States government make case Chinese equipment maker publicly It part broad push Huawei defend campaign led United States undermine company Washington sees security threat Executives spoken strongly Americas actions new marketing campaigns aimed mending companys image among consumers
For many years United States officials said Beijing could use Huaweis telecommunication equipment spy disrupt communication networks The company denied allegations major wireless carriers ATT Verizon effectively prevented using Huaweis equipment result
Over past year Washington ramped pressure firm preparing take major role construction nextgeneration wireless networks around world American officials urged governments ban use Huaweis products This year Justice Department filed criminal charges company chief financial officer connection evading American sanctions Iran
A hearing set begin week Canada determine whether companys finance chief Meng Wanzhou extradited United States face charges Ms Mengs lawyers sued Canadian government police arguing circumstances arrest detention December violated rights
Many Canadians see Ms Mengs case example foreign moneys influence Vancouver
The criminal case Ms Meng United States could complicated comments President Trump White House engaged trade negotiations China While criminal cases traditionally independent matters Mr Trump indicated Huaweis fate could bargaining chip
During meeting Oval Office delegation Chinese officials last month Mr Trump said Well making decision asked would drop criminal charges Huawei part trade deal He added Well talking attorney general
A lawsuit Huawei United States expected challenge section defense spending authorization law approved last year The provision blocks executive agencies using telecom equipment made Huawei another Chinese company ZTE
According one people familiar matter Huawei likely argue provision bill attainder legislative act singles person group punishment without trial The Constitution forbids Congress pass bills
Huaweis plans final It could still decide change course file lawsuit
The United States Embassy Beijing immediately respond request comment A call placed outside business hours United States Court House Plano Tex Huaweis American headquarters answered
China announced espionage accusations former Canadian diplomat Monday days Ms Mengs extradition hearing set take place
In many ways Huawei case echoes another company aroused security concerns United States Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab
Around two years ago American officials began expressing worries Moscow could use companys software gather intelligence The company denied allegations But September 2017 Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies begin removing companys products government systems Congress codified ban spending law
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits response arguing prohibition amounted bill attainder In May judge District Columbia dismissed suits ruling Congress motivated legitimate desire protect government computer networks Russian intrusion The judge also said Kasperskys sales American government small fraction companys business ban especially harsh
An appeals court upheld ruling months later Banning Kaspersky prophylactic punitive measure judge appeal David S Tatel wrote
Given insignificant probability Kasperskys products could compromised federal systems magnitude harm intrusion could wrought Congresss decision remove Kaspersky federal networks represents reasonable balanced response Judge Tatel wrote
Raymond Zhong reported Shanghai Paul Mozur Hong Kong Alan Rappeport contributed reporting Washington
Follow Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur Twitter zhonggg paulmozur




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Azam Ahmed Kirk Semple
MEXICO CITY Mexican officials carrying Trump administrations immigration agenda across wide stretches border undercutting Mexican governments promises defend migrants support search better life
The Mexican authorities blocking groups migrants border towns refusing allow onto international bridges apply asylum United States intercepting unaccompanied minors reach American soil helping manage lists asylum seekers behalf American authorities limit number people crossing border
Breaking decades asylum practice Mexican government also allowed Trump administration send 120 men women children Tijuana await decisions asylum applications United States The program could expanded border crossings soon next week
Officials inside administration Mexicos new president Andrés Manuel López Obrador called stance migrants strategic decision anger President Trump
He doesnt believe change Mr Trumps mind contend Furthermore officials say Mr López Obrador wanted jeopardize aspects deeply interconnected relationship two countries ranging elaborate regional trading arrangements information sharing border security transnational crime terrorism So avoided bruising potentially costly public fight issue
A lifelong defender poor Mr López Obrador often refers plans Mexico grand transformation placing ambitions nation par great leaders
He burnished everyman credentials cutting government salaries flying coach around country opening opulent presidential palace public He also vastly reduced number Central American migrants Mexico deports soil
But everything transformed
Exhibit A Migrant Protection Protocols Trump administrations policy require asylum seekers remain Mexican side border await decisions fate Rights groups contend dumps migrants increasingly violent Mexico impairs access legal counsel family support United States
Mr López Obradors administration came office saying would cooperate Mr Trumps antiimmigration agenda gone along several fronts including accepting women children despite earlier promises take adult male asylum seekers
The Mexican government argued policy requiring asylum seekers wait Mexico imposed United States consented humanitarian reasons
It also true Mr López Obrador giving Mr Trumps border demands rarely saying word American president daily press briefings carries little political cost home
Read latest edition Crossing Border limitedrun newsletter life United States Mexico meet Sign receive next issue inbox
To many Mexicans fate migrants secondary domestic concerns jobs security corruption Mr López Obrador retains 80 percent approval rating despite governments willingness take back migrants applying asylum United States
If accept handful people back Mexico thats really problem us even politically said one official authorized discuss internal deliberations What really want avoid public fight Trump
But effort avoid crossborder fight Mexican government chosen politics humanitarian ideals critics contend
Mexico continuing play role US thinks contain migrant influx period said Melissa Vertiz Hernández coordinates Working Group Immigration Policy network civil society rights groups Mexico
The delicate balance United States left Mexican government without clear consistent immigration policy Mexican states municipalities along border often position fending pressure American counterparts
In Mexican border city Reynosa instance almost one allowed cross bridge apply asylum neighboring McAllen Texas They typically blocked apprehended Mexican officials forcing migrants try luck towns
In city Piedras Negras officials rounded hundreds migrants arrived caravan recent weeks kept tight watch shelter limited access outsiders advocates say After public outcry center closed many bused cities towns along border
The mayor Ciudad Juárez meanwhile threatened sue neighboring governor shipping migrants town It become game political hot potato desperate Central Americans fleeing poverty violence caught middle
Elsewhere along border shelter officials say manage lists asylum applicants name nationality age documentation assist Mexican officials complying American border patrol mandates
The Mexican government resisting Mr Trump ways official Mr López Obradors government insisted Even acquiescing Trump administration Migrant Protection Protocols done strategically according official two others briefed plan
By allowing program start San Diego Tijuana Mexican officials argued legal challenges United States go federal courts Northern District California generally seen liberal This matters time many Americans focused beat Mr Trump 2020 elections particular leveraging MexicanAmerican vote
But many activists far confident legal challenge put end program
I think incredibly risky move said Stephanie Leutert director Mexico Security Initiative University Texas Austin I dont think put countrys foreign migratory policy hands civil society organization another country
On Feb 14 civil society organization American Civil Liberties Union several advocacy groups filed lawsuit challenging Trump administrations policy A decision temporary restraining order expected coming days
The lawsuit filed behalf 11 asylum seekers returned Mexico recent weeks accuses Trump administration violating federal international migration human rights laws
Advocates contend forcibly sending asylum seekers Tijuana Trump administration plunged unfamiliar dangerous environment lives may jeopardy
Killings Tijuana skyrocketed recent years turf war local drug market In 2018 city posted deadliest year record 2500 killings
The Trump administration first announced new policy December Jan 28 head Mexicos migration agency said Mexican government imposed restrictions enactment
But Mexican officials backed many initial restrictions including refusal accept women children Trump administration officials said plan expand program ports entry along border The López Obrador administration said little publicly changes
In Tijuana several returnees three single men single woman two mothers traveling three children described confusion dismay finding Mexico
I idea Im going survive said Yanira 34yearold migrant El Salvador feared pursued people said fleeing home country
Yanira said left El Salvador three children ages 8 11 12 local gang tried recruit middle child threatened violence unless agreed
When stepped onto Mexican soil led back across border American officials broke
I cried cried recalled
Mexican officials said provide shelter care returnees essentially leaving network community groups Tijuana elsewhere state Baja California
But shelter network extraordinary pressure almostcontinual arrival migrants traveling caravans pushed centers beyond capacity
Sister Salomé Limas social worker Instituto Madre Asunta migrant shelter Tijuana said currently housing 120 women children space designed 44
Among migrants several families seeking asylum United States returned recent weeks Trump policy
Sister Salomé said shelter house families first court date United States late March After sure
Whats going happen said We dont know
Paulina Villegas contributed reporting Mexico City
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday Want email Sign
In wake two fatal crashes involving 737 Max 8 airplane shared similarities Boeing finds prosecutors regulators inspecting development processes safety assessments
A grand jury Washington DC issued subpoena dated March 11 day Ethiopian Airlines crash seeking documents least one person involved development 737 Max jets WSJ reports
The Transportation Department inspector generals office also reportedly examining planes design certification second deadly crash
An investigation The Seattle Times found FAA delegated wide responsibility 737 Max safety assessment Boeing The resulting analysis included crucial flaws according investigation
And Bloomberg reports early seven years ago FAA employees warned Boeing much sway safety approvals new aircraft
Boeing said statement Sunday aircraft certification processes well established consistently produced safe aircraft designs It added 737 Max certification program followed FAAs standard certification process
The ridehailing company start road show IPO today New York City It wont short ambition Lyft hopes achieve valuation much 23 billion
In updated prospectus Lyft said hopes raise nearly 24 billion IPO That figure close 216 billion revenue generated last year
At high end proposed stock price 68 company would valued 23 billion That would make stakes held companys founders Logan Green John Zimmer worth hundreds millions dollars apiece The company expected price offering March 28 would trade Nasdaq next day
Lyft poised become one biggest market debuts tech company since Alibaba Groups IPO 2014 Until Uber goes public later year least
But IPO without controversy Its facing backlash investors arent happy dualclass stock structure Paul Singer head activist hedge fund Elliott Management one writing FT oped
Those insight daring found business deserve respect But sell vast majority company public allowed run forever without shareholder input Public ownership must mean public accountability
The two German lenders announced yesterday formally begin merger talks Now must convince critics combining good thing
Deutsche Bank said reviewing strategic options shoring profitability growth Christian Sewing firms CEO told employees I consistently stressed consolidation German European banking sector important topic us
The combined bank would one Europes biggest 2 trillion assets onefifth private customers Germany
Going public signals deal political backing Germanys finance minister argued country needs strong national champion compete foreign banks Here FTs list key decisionmakers deal
But opposition merger strong German unions criticized plan fearing tens thousands job cuts And Elisa Martinuzzi Bloomberg Opinion warns wouldnt fix bigger problems German banking system
The Trump administrations campaign prevent countries using Huawei equipment 5G wireless networks faltered Julian E Barnes Adam Satariano NYT write
American officials pressuring threatening nations shun Huawei The push rooted US concerns Chinese telecom companies significant security threat could help Beijing spy nations
But really working Britain Germany India United Arab Emirates signaled unlikely follow Americas lead
The US campaign criticized lack evidence American intelligence briefings reportedly failed clearly show Chinese government used Huawei steal information Read five experts two senators say whether threat Some European Asian officials also believe President Trump may fully support fight
American officials want find ways curb Huaweis rise Mr Barnes Mr Satariano write including possibly restricting American companies supplying Huawei key components needs build 5G networks across world
More Huawei built operating system smartphones computers used company longer use software developed Google Microsoft
The financial sector hasnt felt impact MeToo much industries But David Gelles NYT reports lawsuit asset manager TCW could change
Sara Tirschwell created distresseddebt fund TCW fired 2017 sued firm former boss Jess Ravich CEO David Lippman She claimed dismissal retaliation reporting sexual harassment claim Mr Ravich gender discrimination breach contract
Ms Tirschwell alleges Mr Ravich pressured sex several times tenure firm The first encounter made feel according lawsuit rejection would mean end Ravichs crucial support
TCW Mr Ravich Mr Lippman denied allegations I Saras biggest supporter TCW role decision fire Mr Ravich said
So far theres talk settlement Mr Gelles writes Days court rare movement rarer still Wall Street grievances typically dealt private wire transfer dealt
Despite delivering disappointing returns investors many CEOs saw compensation climb last year according WSJ
Median compensation 132 chief executives SP 500 companies reached 124 million 2018 117 million group 2017 WSJ calculates
Most CEOs received substantial raises median 64 percent even though December stockmarket swoon meant companies finished year posting sluggish shareholder returns
Markets pretty well companies well economy held Robin Ferracone executivepay consultant told WSJ
But also said boards may thinking forward economic slowdown adding They know theyre going bring blooms rose
The shooting mosque Christchurch New Zealand designed go viral internet What
The attack teased Twitter announced online message board 8chan broadcast live Facebook Kevin Roose NYT writes The footage replayed endlessly YouTube Twitter Reddit platforms scrambled take clips nearly fast new copies popped replace
Online extremism regular extremism steroids There offline equivalent experience algorithmically nudged toward strident version existing beliefs Mr Roose adds People become fluent culture online extremism make consume edgy memes cluster harden And one erupts
But telling terrorists trolls isnt easy tech companies Christopher Mims WSJ argues Knowing online extremists erupt act violence virtually impossible broadcasts sudden acts violence hard automatically block
More needs done We need understand address poisonous pipeline extremism emerged past several years whose ultimate effects impossible quantify clearly far big ignore Mr Roose writes Its going away particularly getting better
PGE reportedly close naming Bill Johnson outgoing head Tennessee Valley Authority next CEO
Google named Scott Beaumont head greater China Korea operations chief AsiaPacific team
Stuart Benson resigned CFO MoviePass
Princeville Capital venture capital firm invests climate technology recruited Leonardo DiCaprio adviser
Deals
Fidelity National Information Services agreed buy international payments processor Worldpay 34 billion The companies
Caesars Entertainment Eldorado Resorts reportedly early merger talks Reuters
Private equity firms like KKR CVC Capital Partners reportedly interested buying Bayers animalhealth division Bloomberg
PagerDuty popular startup alerts IT workers tech problems need fixing publicly filed IPO Business Insider
Politics policy
Investors eagerly await Treasury Departments rules investing taxadvantaged opportunity zones NYT
Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro monologue questioning Muslim lawmakers loyalty US President Trump unhappy move NYT
Cindy Yang former owner massage parlor busted prostitution ring come scrutiny political activities including donations presidents reelection campaign NYT
Brexit
Prime Minister Theresa May expected put Brexit deal third parliamentary vote week likely contingent gaining backing Democratic Unionist Party FT
Meanwhile Labour Party appears set support plan would seek public vote Mrs Mays deal approved lawmakers Reuters
Trade
The US China pushing meeting late April complete trade deal negotiators still grappling details NYT
The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska sued US Treasury Department sanctions placed last year CNBC
President Xi Jinping China starts series state visits Europe week bid bolster trade continent Bloomberg
Tech
Marc Andreessen Facebook board member reportedly met Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Chris Wylie 2016 If true would suggest understood extent companys harvesting Facebook data He denies claim Observer Business Insider
In related news academic behind Cambridge Analyticas data mining sued Facebook defamation NYT
Apple making billiondollar bet take Netflix Will work NYT
Tech investors including MeToo clauses startup deals FT
Breaking tech giants suddenly become populist concept San Francisco NYT Bloomberg
Best rest
In wake admissions scandal colleges rethinking athletic special admissions WSJ
The Fed likely say later week little appetite interest rate rises year WSJ
Why successful joint ventures turn sour Its often success breeds desire control venture sought avoid Economist
The European Central Bank unhappy EUs plans increasing supervision clearing houses FT
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Andrew Higgins Mujib Mashal
MOSCOW Thirty years last Soviet troops retreated Afghanistan Russia Tuesday reasserted player region hosting talks Taliban senior Afghan politicians aimed speeding exit another superpower time United States
The talks held Moscows President Hotel owned Kremlin offered clearer view Taliban see end 18year war In room dripping chandeliers 50 delegates many flowing robes Western suits ties nearly old sometimes violent rivals faced across large circular conference table
While Afghan politicians part delegation led former President Hamid Karzai spoke protecting hard gains past two decades Taliban denounced new Afghan Constitution lays system governance built enormous cost
The Taliban representatives also offered rare look see role women While barred women public life time power said believed womens rights including education work claim met skepticism women Afghanistan
The Moscow gathering included Taliban delegation led chief negotiator Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai represented significant contact senior Afghan politicians Taliban since United States toppled hardline Islamist group power end 2001
Absent talks however Americanbacked Afghan government President Ashraf Ghani strongly criticized meeting affront designed undermine offices authority Afghan state
Mr Ghani uncomfortable position odds American backers sees moving quickly reach deal also others countrys political elite rallying around Americanled effort
What agreeing Where implementing power Mr Ghani told Afghan channel ToloNews Tuesday dismissing talks They could hold hundred meetings Afghan government Afghan Parliament legal institutions Afghanistan approve agreements paper
The delegation headed Mr Karzai consisted entirely former officials representatives political parties many involved countrys bloody civil war current members Parliament There two women group
Afghans social media critical delegation questioning whether represented Afghanistan
Those meeting Moscow pushed aside said Khaled Abedy 31 works private company Kabul Afghan capital They want build business The country isnt important I think sort meeting cant help peace process
But Atta Muhammad Noor one Afghan politicians delegation Moscow said participants considered representative Afghanistan Mr Ghanis government
We fighting 40 years people influence Ghani said Mr Noor longtime governor Balkh Province Mr Ghani dismissed last year
Speaking sidelines event said foreign forces including around 14000 American troops must leave Afghanistan But cautioned withdrawn gradually avoid repeat chaos engulfed Afghanistan abrupt Soviet pullout 1989
The talks scheduled last two days opened week American diplomats Taliban representatives ended six days negotiations Doha capital Qatar Each side said negotiations made progress toward ending conflict began United States invaded Afghanistan 2001 long terror attacks Sept 11
Both sides said agreed principle framework two issues Taliban guarantee Afghan soil would never used terrorist groups like Al Qaeda pledge United States withdraw troops But many Afghans concerned Americans might eager strike deal
The organizer Moscow talks ostensibly Afghan diaspora Russia Russian government But Afghan officials Taliban members said Kremlin playing major role orchestrating meeting behind scenes
Russia chastened damage done Soviet Union occupation Afghanistan shown interest getting involved militarily least directly But positioned force reckoned relishing Washingtons agonies hands Taliban insurgents
Russia designated Taliban terrorist organization 2003 first strongly supported American efforts purge Afghanistan extremist Islamist groups President Vladimir V Putin described threat Russias security
But amid rising Cold Warstyle rivalry Moscow Washington Russia hedged bets opening channels Taliban Moscow allowed 10member delegation Taliban still officially barred terrorists enter Russia Moscow talks
On Tuesday Afghanistan violence continued unabated The Taliban attacked police army outposts around northern city Kunduz dawn killing least 23 members Afghan security forces In Takhar Province gunmen attacked womens radio station killing two staff members
Mr Karzai made appeal end bloodshed saying Afghan soldiers Taliban fighters buried next
All around graveyards regular Afghans graves plenty Mr Karzai said The dream every mother hope every father buried
Mr Karzai first installed Afghanistans leader United States late 2001 relationship soured He visited Russia often since leaving office 2014 meetings Mr Putin officials aligned Moscows view United States must leave Afghanistan Soviet Union
Mr Stanekzai Talibans chief negotiator said speech lasting half hour group seek monopolize power inside Afghanistan He said pursuing Islamist government consultation Afghans group recognize countrys current Constitution calling copied West
Perhaps revealing part speech came described Talibans view future role Afghan women When power group sent religious police patrol streets giving lashes women among things showing ankles
We committed rights given women Islam Mr Stanekzai said Islam given women fundamental rights trade ownership inheritance education work choice partner security education good life
Considering groups history Afghan women immediately questioned statements sincerity
But Fawzia Koofi female member Afghan Parliament one two women attendance said happy heard Taliban promise women would stripped rights would allowed serve prime minister though president
However cautioned We gained much last 18 years whatever problems want go back Taliban period
Andrew Higgins reported Moscow Mujib Mashal Kabul Afghanistan Najim Rahim contributed reporting MazariSharif Afghanistan Fahim Abed Fatima Faizi Kabul Taimoor Shah Kandahar Afghanistan




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Christine Hauser
It like online matchmaking service Horse lovers want adopt wild mustang western United States browse dozens headshots
From dropdown menus choose gender color age 4yearold chestnut mare example 9yearold gray gelding Some horses training others might gentled experience handled
This Wild Horses Online part federal Bureau Land Managements online adoption service Starting month bureau trying make wild mustang adoptions attractive paying 1000 take animals gathered public land western United States part efforts manage population
The adoption program began March 12 intended encourage potential owners take leap adopting wild horses whose access pasture water challenged factors including rising population droughts said Deborah Collins bureaus outreach officer
Ms Collins said government hoped people would take fresh look owning wild horse say I got little help I go find trainer
The program first incentive type Bureau Land Management offered since Wild FreeRoaming Horses Burros Act 1971 detailed agencys duties legal custodian wild horses burros United States
Previously people adopted wild mustang paying 125 Now paid 500 front receive 500 balance prove owned animal responsibly year Ms Collins said
Carrie Jim Pacileo Powell Wyo drove six hours March 15 adoption event Rock Springs The couple already adopted two mustangs one completely trained partly trained wanted
I told husband I wanted try train completely wild Ms Pacileo said
They came home two mustangs 9monthold Remmi 11monthold Stormy
Being younger thought maybe would easier Ms Pacileo said
She said money receive adopting horses would invested equipment hay production 40 acres
I wanted like ultimate symbol America said
More 66000 wild horses 15000 burros roam 26 million acres 10 states bureaus latest data shows The ideal level populations combined 26690 according bureau
The challenge bureau balance population animals available resources public private lands Some found rambling along highways foraging backyards discovered open range emaciated dying thirst Ms Collins said
The main method population control simply move From July February helicopters chase wild horses corrals facilities made available adoption sold adopted
Last year 11000 horses burros removed public lands nearly decade bureau figures show As last month 50000 horses available adoption corrals offrange pastures longterm Ms Collins said
Some bureaus measures attracted controversy use helicopters chase animals removal horses open range primary method population control Some worried wild horses could end slaughterhouses abroad
The American Wild Horse Campaign advocacy group said statement criticizing bureauss new adoption program agency employ population control measures fertility methods The BLM adopt way situation faces stockpiling 50000 horses holding facilities said Suzanne Roy groups executive director
Ms Collins said bureau tried fertility measures including sending volunteers administer birth control vaccinations mares wild But effects vaccinations last year 18 months results adequately addressed overpopulation said
The bureaus push make adoptions enticing focused training The agency working nonprofit Mustang Heritage Foundation started Extreme Mustang Makeover national competition trainers 100 days turn wild mustang wellbehaved steed
Wild mustangs also trained federal prisons rehabilitation programs coordinated bureau
The 1000 adoption payout costs bureau half would keep animal year Ms Collins said For owners mustangs cost less keep breeds thoroughbreds quarter horses said Mary Santagata adopts buys mustangs All Kings Horses rescue organization Northford Conn
Adopted mustangs current vaccinations Ms Santagata said annual veterinary care could cost 300 problems About 50 every eight 10 weeks goes toward hooves professionally trimmed Many owners feed mustangs hay similar diet open range rather expensive grain hay said
They hardy Ms Santagata said They built survive
Other costs include adapting corrals sixfoothigh paneled fencing wild horses escape providing opensided sheds enter need shelter easily led
The expensive part owning wild horse Ms Santagata said paying experienced trainers At 41 around horses life said could handle basic gentling wild mustang When horses corrals uses soft opening approaching retreating get accustomed
You walk around see reacts said I mustangs would look months
She gradually introduces halters led around able accomplish three months said For advanced skills like riding sends mustangs professionals grown know
I look like I adopting living legend Ms Santagata said They mystical creature wild lucky ones find




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Casey
BOGOTÁ Colombia Jorge Ramos news anchor television network Univision said detained Venezuelan government confrontational interview President Nicolás Maduro Monday evening Miraflores Palace Caracas
He didnt like things asking lack democracy Venezuela torture political prisoners Mr Ramos recounted Univision broadcast said released government
Mr Ramos said detained two hours let go allowed return hotel He said government confiscated crews equipment including phones memory cards
We dont anything said They interviews
On Monday night Kimberly Breier assistant secretary state Western Hemisphere State Department said Mr Ramos detained called government release immediately
The world watching wrote Twitter
Venezuelas government dispute account Mr Ramos temporarily held appeared lay blame anchor
We dont lend cheap shows said Jorge Rodríguez government communications minister
He added Hundreds journalists come received decent treatment always give journalistic work
Mr Ramos Mexicoborn American journalist known confrontational questions particularly leaders attacked press In 2015 tangled Donald J Trump presidential candidate news conference Mr Trump eventually guards force room
Go back Univision Mr Trump said
Univision largest Spanishlanguage television network United States
Mr Maduro recently stuck friendly interviews state television outlets
But since current crisis faces major challenge Venezuelas opposition whose leader Juan Guaidó also claims presidency Mr Maduro conducted number interviews international media outlets including BBC Eurovision ABC also conducted interview Monday
In ABC interview Mr Maduro defended criticism blocking aid shipments opposition White House demanded let pass Venezuelas borders Colombia Brazil
Everything United States government done doomed failure Mr Maduro said Theyre trying fabricate crisis justify political escalation military intervention Venezuela bring war South America
Mr Ramos said showing images children eating dumpster Mr Maduro common sight Venezuela president presided shortages food medicine
He got interview Mr Ramos said Immediately afterward one ministers Jorge Rodríguez came say interview wasnt authorized
Then Mr Ramos said detained
Later Monday night Mr Ramos writes column syndicated New York Times Licensing Group told Reuters crew would deported Tuesday


video

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Best Late Night
By Giovanni Russonello
Welcome Best Late Night rundown previous nights highlights lets sleep lets us get paid watch comedy If youre interested hearing The Times regularly great TV sign Watching newsletter get recommendations straight inbox
Stephen Colbert admitted hes happy see President Trump Congress apparently nearing border security deal would help avert government shutdown But said wished could press reset political conversation
Were supposed care whether Trump Nancy lost Trump caved Nancys dancing end zone said But nothing nothing happened government 2019 affected anyone Wheres infrastructure bill Wheres immigration bill Wheres fix health care We celebrating supposed celebrating theyre close deal achieve absolute minimum government
Colbert pointed reports preparations possible border wall already damaged butterfly habitats Texas He argued Trump ought sympathy insects
After hes got lot common butterflies Theyre fragile creatures bright iridescent coloring paperthin skin Its Trump never left larval stage STEPHEN COLBERT
Colbert also tweaked Democrats showed clip Representative Nita Lowey insisting lawmakers agreed fund partial barrier wall
Oh wall barrier A clinching legal argument first made landmark case Potato v Potato STEPHEN COLBERT
Jimmy Kimmel isnt excited recent news sequel film Frozen come fall
Just Baby Shark songs finally starting get heads theres new batch Frozen songs way For dont kids Frozen streetlegal drug children thats 10 times addictive Paw Patrol gummy worms combined In one Disney finally answer question What made bunch money JIMMY KIMMEL
Trevor Noah excited Howard Schultzs middleoftheroad potential candidacy He criticized Schultz former chief executive Starbucks saying CNN town hall doesnt see race
It would like How going solve black unemployment And guy would like What mean black unemployment All I see staggering unemployment among people named Jamal Anyway February happy History Month TREVOR NOAH
Tomorrow Valentines Day St Valentine course patron saint seasonal marketing STEPHEN COLBERT
Tomorrow Auntie Annes offering special heartshaped pretzels Its great deal hopeless romantics taking dates La Guardia JIMMY FALLON
Samantha Bee went bat ambitious Green New Deal plan Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez unveiled month
On Conan Kay Jewelers Tinder Collection featured bejeweled inscriptions Please Dont Murder Me Whats Your Last Name
Bradley Cooper director star A Star Is Born The Late Show Thursday With Oscars 10 days away anticipation probably hang air
Aubrey Plaza hosting Film Independent Spirit Awards month Shes diehard fan independent cinema looking forward bringing back intimate vibe awards show televised
Plus Ideas What Watch Tonight
The 50 Best Movies Netflix Right Now
The 25 Best Films 21st Century
The Best Movies Amazon Prime Video Right Now
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Declan Walsh
CAIRO President Omar Hassan alBashir Sudan imposed yearlong state emergency dissolved federal state governments Friday attempt end months nationwide street protests shaken authority three decades rule
In televised address broadcast live presidential palace Khartoum Mr alBashir declared state emergency disbanded federal government replaced state governors military generals
Mr alBashir also said pausing ending effort amend Sudans constitution could run third term office current one ends 2020
Reuters citing presidential statement reported Friday night Mr alBashir appointed caretaker administration leaving current defense foreign justice ministers place
In speech acknowledged economic hardship triggered first protests December said protest movement hijacked elements agendas achieve zero sum scenarios
Mr alBashir wanted International Criminal Court charges war crimes ruled Sudan iron fist decades immediate implications state emergency unclear It seemed signal hardening attitude toward protests led young professionals angered economic decay corruption become hallmarks Mr alBashirs rule
The demonstrations first began Dec 19 town Atbara focused soaring bread prices They quickly grew movement calling ouster president near daily protests spreading cities across country
The protesters come across Sudanese society including sections shrinking upper middle class withered countrys precipitous economic slide Soaring fuel prices caused factories close youth employment stands 27 percent according World Bank estimates
Our country passing difficult complicated phase national history Mr alBashir said speech Friday
He blamed external factors collapse protesters say stems decades kleptocratic incompetent rule Their frequent chant marches riot police arrive tear gas sometimes bullets Just fall
Protest leaders say 1000 people arrested crackdown led feared National Intelligence Security Service Internet access restricted effort block social media posts used mostly young protesters organize demonstrations
The government said 31 people died protestrelated violence Human Rights Watch put toll 51 people killed since midDecember
On Friday Mr alBashir stumbled several times read speech In attempt mollify protesters offered prayers killed announced plans economic reform new government yet fully formed He invited opposition move forward engage dialogue regarding current issues country
In recent years Mr alBashir fired marginalized potential rivals power little long rule suggests new willingness rapprochement
Mr alBashir came power military coup 1989 since Sudan endured famines American missile strikes isolation civil war led independence South Sudan 2011 Two years International Criminal Court ordered Mr alBashir arrested charges played essential role atrocities including murder rape torture displacement civilians conflict Darfur region Sudan
In 2017 United States lifted sanctions Sudan relief failed stem steep economic decline Mr alBashir lobbied State Department remove Sudan list state sponsors terrorism factor countrys economic woes
Before televised address Sudans intelligence chief Salah Abdallah Gosh told reporters Mr alBashir would announce resignation head ruling National Congress Party
But Mr alBashir said nothing speech party activists fear state emergency could presage even harsher measures movement
In immediate aftermath speech however demonstrators appeared undeterred Videos posted social media suggested protests rule continued Khartoum



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ceylan Yeginsu
Britains chancellor Exchequer Philip Hammond delivered statement countrys economy Wednesday something fiscal nonevent specter Britains withdrawal European Union Brexit hanging every economic projection
Mr Hammonds main message could deliver funds public spending British Parliament reaches deal Brexit came day lawmakers rejected Prime Minister Theresa Mays plan large margin
With Mrs May sitting behind Mr Hammond conspicuously called lawmakers put aside differences seek compromise Brexit something neither prime minister Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn yet accepted
Higher unemployment lower wages higher prices shops That British people voted June 2016 said referring 2016 referendum leave European Union
Here five takeaways chancellors spring statement
The uncertainty surrounding Brexit slowdown global economy cut growth 2019 12 percent 16 percent projected last years autumn budget
The British economy set grow 14 percent 2020 16 percent following two years according official forecasts independent Office Budget Responsibility
One bright spot wage growth revised upward least 3 percent year work force expanding 600000 2023 Mr Hammond said
With public sector borrowing trending Mr Hammond pledged increase Brexit dividend 266 billion pounds 35 billion comes catch British lawmakers would vote pronto leave European Union deal
In statement Office Budget Responsibility attributed improved fiscal climate higher income tax receipts lower expected interest costs
Once Mr Hammond hedged good news familiar caveat Parliament first agree deal Brexit
A smooth Brexit see deal dividend economic boost free resources schools police social care areas suffered significantly decade budget cuts conservative governments austerity policy
Analysts quick point government making promises time promised spending increases failed materialize
The repeated promise austerity coming end ring hollow millions low wage disabled unemployed people see social security tax credits frozen another year April Dr MaryAnn Stephenson director Womens Budget Group said Wednesday
The government fund free sanitary products secondary schools colleges England response concerns girls missing school afford buy products Mr Hammond said
The announcement comes twoyear campaign started Amika George 19 read reports schoolgirls northern city Leeds using newspaper socks toilet paper could afford sanitary products would sometimes miss school avoid embarrassment
Its definitely really huge number Ms George said phone interview This isnt small minority people affecting Its definitely prevalent something government needs take action
Knife crime rose fourth straight year 2018 hotbutton issue days To help address additional 100 million pounds 130 million made available police forces across England Wales help tackle knife crime risen fourth consecutive year
Police funding England Wales fell 19 percent 201011 201819 National Audit Office says
The extra funding spent additional overtime targeted knife crime new violent crime reduction units Mr Hammond said
The announcement falls short 200 300 million pounds 260 million 390 million requested National Police Chiefs Council last week




Advertisement
Sophisticated surveillance domain world powers increasingly available private market Smaller countries seizing tools sometimes darker purposes
NSO private company based Herzliya Israel hired former government hackers ply trades foreign governmentsCreditCreditCorinna Kern The New York Times
Supported
By Mark Mazzetti Adam Goldman Ronen Bergman Nicole Perlroth
The man charge Saudi Arabias ruthless campaign stifle dissent went searching ways spy people saw threats kingdom He knew go secretive Israeli company offering technology developed former intelligence operatives
It late 2017 Saud alQahtani top adviser Saudi Arabias powerful crown prince tracking Saudi dissidents around world part extensive surveillance efforts ultimately led killing journalist Jamal Khashoggi In messages exchanged employees company NSO Group Mr alQahtani spoke grand plans use surveillance tools throughout Middle East Europe like Turkey Qatar France Britain
The Saudi governments reliance firm Israel adversary decades offers glimpse new age digital warfare governed rules growing economy valued 12 billion spies hire
Today even smallest countries buy digital espionage services enabling conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping influence campaigns preserve major powers like United States Russia Corporations want scrutinize competitors secrets wealthy individual beef rival also command intelligence operations price akin purchasing offtheshelf elements National Security Agency Mossad
For stories changing nature warfare sign weekly At War newsletter
NSO competitor Emirati firm DarkMatter exemplify proliferation privatized spying A monthslong examination The New York Times based interviews current former hackers governments private companies others well review documents uncovered secret skirmishes burgeoning world digital combat
The firms enabled governments hack criminal elements like terrorist groups drug cartels also cases act darker impulses targeting activists journalists Hackers trained United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople human rights workers net Cybermercenaries working DarkMatter turned prosaic household item baby monitor spy device
The FBI investigating current former American employees DarkMatter possible cybercrimes according four people familiar investigation The inquiry intensified former NSA hacker working company grew concerned activities contacted FBI Reuters reported
NSO DarkMatter also compete fiercely paying handsomely lure top hacking talent Israel United States countries sometimes pilfering recruits The Times found
The Middle East epicenter new era privatized spying Besides DarkMatter NSO Black Cube private company run former Mossad Israeli military intelligence operatives gained notoriety Harvey Weinstein disgraced Hollywood mogul hired dig dirt accusers PsyGroup Israeli company specializing social media manipulation worked Russian oligarchs 2016 pitched Trump campaign plan build online army bots avatars swing Republican delegate votes
Last year wealthy American businessman Elliott Broidy sued government Qatar New York firm run former CIA officer Global Risk Advisors said sophisticated breach company led thousands emails spilling public Mr Broidy said operation motivated hardnosed geopolitics At beginning Trump administration pushed White House adopt antiQatar policies time firm poised receive hundreds millions dollars contracts United Arab Emirates archrival Qatar
A judge dismissed Mr Broidys lawsuit suspicions grown Qatar hand operations including hacking leaking emails Yousef alOtaiba influential Emirati ambassador Washington
The rapid expansion global hightech battleground armies cybermercenaries clash prompted warnings dangerous chaotic future
Even smallest country low budget offensive capability initiate online attacks adversaries said Robert Johnston founder cybersecurity firm Adlumin key investigator Russias 2016 hacking Democratic National Committee Qatar UAE going war getting bloody
The barriers entry space getting lower lower
Before NSO helped Saudi government track adversaries outside kingdom helped Mexican government hunt drug kingpins earned hundreds millions dollars working dozens countries six continents company consisted two high school friends northern Israel one relatively mundane idea
Using technology developed graduates Intelligence Unit 8200 Israels equivalent NSA Shalev Hulio Omri Lavie started company 2008 allowed cellphone firms gain remote access customers devices perform maintenance
Word spread Western spy services whose operatives spotted opportunity At time American European officials warning Apple Facebook Google tech giants developing technologies allowed criminals terrorists communicate encrypted channels indecipherable intelligence law enforcement agencies They called phenomenon going dark
Mr Hulio Mr Lavie offered way circumvent problem hacking end points communications phones data decrypted
By 2011 NSO developed first prototype mobile surveillance tool company called Pegasus Like namesake Greek mythological winged horse NSOs tool could something seemingly impossible collect vast amounts previously inaccessible data smartphones air without leaving trace including phone calls texts emails contacts location data transmitted apps like Facebook WhatsApp Skype
Once companies invade phone Youre carrying around Avi Rosen Kaymera Technologies Israeli cyberdefense company said NSO competitors
The company soon first client Pegasus government Mexico engaged crackdown drug cartels By 2013 NSO installed Pegasus three Mexican agencies according emails obtained The Times The emails estimated altogether firm sold Mexican government 15 million worth hardware software Mexico paying firm 77 million track wide array targets every move swipe phone
NSO products important Mexicos war cartels according four people familiar Mexican government used Pegasus speaking condition anonymity discuss intelligence matters Mexican officials credited Pegasus instrumental helping track capture El Chapo famed drug kingpin convicted last month New York sentenced life maximumsecurity prison
Soon enough NSO selling governments throughout world company claiming clients every continent except Antarctica NSO products particularly Pegasus helped break terrorist cells aided investigations organized crime child abduction European intelligence law enforcement officials said interviews
NSOs first client Mexican government also using hacking tools darker purposes part broader government industry surveillance effort The government used NSO products track least two dozen journalists government critics international investigators looking unsolved disappearance 43 students even backers soda tax according Times investigations research Citizen Lab part University Toronto
Those targets subjected stream harassing text messages contained malware Some messages warned spouses affairs others relative passed away In one case government officials able infiltrate phone journalist targeted 16yearold sons
Though NSO says sells services criminal antiterrorism investigations none Mexicans known targeted suspected criminal terrorism investigations
NSO technology helped stop vicious crimes deadly terrorist attacks around world company said statement We tolerate misuse products regularly vet review contracts ensure used anything prevention investigation terrorism crime
The company established ethics committee decides whether sell spyware countries based human rights records reported global organizations like World Banks human capital index indicators NSO would sell Turkey example poor record human rights current former employees said
But World Bank index Turkey ranks higher Mexico Saudi Arabia NSO clients A spokesman Israels Ministry Defense needs authorize contract NSO wins foreign government declined answer questions company
A lawsuit alleged last year months death Saudi Arabia used NSO products spy Mr Khashoggi Washington Post columnist strangled dismembered October Saudi operatives inside kingdoms consulate Istanbul NSO denies accusation Several Mr Khashoggis closest contacts targets NSO hacking tools Citizen Lab reported Without access Mr Khashoggis devices researchers confirmed whether direct target NSO surveillance
Even cases blatant abuse NSO continued renew contracts government clients In 2013 instance NSO inked first deal United Arab Emirates Within year Emirati government caught installing NSO spyware mobile phone Ahmed Mansoor prominent human rights activist
After receiving onslaught text messages containing links Mr Mansoor frequent target Emirati surveillance grew suspicious passed texts security researchers determined links NSO lures exploited vulnerabilities Apple software take Mr Mansoors phone It researchers said sophisticated spyware ever uncovered mobile device
The discovery forced Apple release emergency patch But Mr Mansoor already fired job passport confiscated car stolen email hacked location tracked bank account emptied 140000 beaten strangers twice week
You start believe every move watched Your family starts panic said interview arrested 2017 I live
Even UAE caught spying Mr Mansoor leaked invoices showed NSO continued sell Emiratis millions dollars worth spyware services As Mr Mansoor sentenced 10 years prison damaging national unity held solitary confinement health deteriorating
A flurry news reports followed countries using NSO products spy citizens prompting company temporarily rebrand Q James Bonds gadget guru
Despite bad news coverage NSOs value continued skyrocket
Francisco Partners private equity firm purchased 70 percent stake NSO 130 million 2013 Last month NSOs cofounders raised enough money buy back majority stake NSO valuation 1 billion The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed deal making major investors including Oregon state employees pension fund Alaskas sovereign wealth fund part owners NSO according public records
The proliferation companies trying replicate NSOs success compete estimated 12 billion market socalled lawful intercept spyware set fierce competition hire American Israeli Russian veterans worlds sophisticated intelligence agencies companies poach talent one another
In late 2017 NSO executives grew concerned spate resignations Private detectives hired investigate soon found Mediterranean island Cyprus tailing group former NSO employees veterans Israels Intelligence Unit 8200 going back forth work research facility
The building owned company affiliated DarkMatter Emirati firm quietly hired Israelis develop technologies UAE conduct cyberoperations perceived enemies home abroad
DarkMatter also offices inside gleaming tower highway connecting Abu Dhabi Dubai building houses UAEs Signals Intelligence Agency Emirates version NSA
This accident DarkMatter effectively arm state worked directly Emirati intelligence operatives numerous missions hacking government ministries Turkey Qatar Iran spying dissidents inside Emirates
DarkMatter origins another company American firm called CyberPoint years ago contracts UAE help protect Emirates computer attacks CyberPoint obtained license American government work Emiratis necessary step intended regulate export military intelligence services Many companys employees worked highly classified projects NSA American intelligence agencies
But Emiratis outsize ambitions repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees exceed boundaries companys American license CyberPoint rebuffed requests Emirati intelligence operatives try crack encryption codes hack websites housed American servers operations would run afoul American law
So 2015 Emiratis founded DarkMatter forming company bound United States law lured least halfdozen American employees CyberPoint join Marc Baier former official NSA unit carries advanced offensive cyberoperations became one firms top executives
DarkMatter employed several former NSA CIA officers according roster employees obtained The Times making salaries hundreds thousands dollars year
The assumption used left NSA youd never kind offensive work Now clearly market said Mr Johnston security expert He worked militarys Cyber Command works closely NSA serving Marines
The NSA consider responsibility ensure hacking techniques taught employees used United States said
The company respond request comment spokesman Emirati government Asked whether ministry given license former Israeli intelligence operatives working DarkMatter spokesman Israeli Ministry Defense declined comment A lawyer Mr Baier also declined comment
Current former employees spy agency lifelong obligation protect United States secrets said Greg Julian spokesman NSA They also required report employment representation foreign governments two years leave agency said
Besides breaches foreign government ministries DarkMatter also broke Gmail Yahoo Hotmail accounts according former employees DarkMatter operatives posed family friends people targeted lure opening emails contained malware
Former employees said DarkMatter targeted Mr Mansoor hacking childs baby monitor eavesdrop family In another operation companys operatives pursued Rori Donaghy British activist critical Emirati government human rights record also target NSO spyware DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab Canadian research organization former employee said
DarkMatter told employees spying American citizens would limits proved empty pledge
In one operation previously reported DarkMatter subsidiary began expansive effort intercept cellular communications Qatar occasionally catching communications Americans surveillance net late 2015 One American working project said raised concerns superiors including former CIA officer charge effort The American along another pulled project asked sign nondisclosure agreement
In repeated instances DarkMatter collected information Americans second former employee said Most cases involved Americans worked foreign organizations including human rights groups DarkMatter targeted critical Emirati government former employee said
DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information applications résumés belonging Americans applied work organizations One former employee said collection accidental records expunged companys databases
In 2017 former NSA hacker began providing FBI agents information companys activities according Reuters report Foreign Policy first reported FBI investigation
The informant Lori Stroud said become concerned companys surveillance Americans She later left firm along several Americans could sure DarkMatter deliberately targeting citizens Soon FBI agents began stopping American employees airports entered United States questioned DarkMatters operations according former company employees
The Justice Departments case run prosecutors Washington focuses internet fraud possibly illegal transfer spying technology foreign country
But prosecutors face headwinds including diplomatic concerns jeopardizing United States relationship UAE influential country developed close ties Trump administration worries pursuing case could expose embarrassing details extent cooperation DarkMatter American intelligence agencies
And reality American laws governing new age digital warfare murky outdated illequipped address rapid technological advances The rules governing American intelligence military personnel provide foreign governments meant keep leash 20thcentury warfare selling missiles planes overseas training foreign forces Army tactics
But address hacking skills honed front laptop worlds advanced intelligence agencies sold highest bidder
The worst part weapons easier get said Brian Bartholomew principal security researcher Kaspersky Lab digital security company
Youve got lot people entering arena new dont play rules said Its like putting militarygrade weapon hands someone street
An earlier version article misattributed source valuation market socalled lawful intercept spyware The 12 billion market estimate cited Moodys originated company NSO Moodys
Scott Shane contributed reporting




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ashley Powers
One day 2015 Barbara Lavenders husband returned UFO conference handed business card It bore red theatercurtain background vintage microphone goldandwhite lettering read Sean David Morton Radio Host Public Speaker Author Director Screen Writer Actor The polymathic Mr Morton Jeff Lavender told wife UFO royalty
Mr Morton spent years whisking ETobsessed tourists Area 51 99 pop leveraged following stints weehours conspiracy show Coast Coast AM one point nations No 3 talkradio program He dabbled fringe arts remote viewing psychic predictions earthquakes elections stock market But time Mr Lavender saw talk Southern California Mr Morton shifted something truly fantastical instant debt relief
Hed peddling workshop called The Sovereign Factor The Revolution Starts With You nod known sovereign citizens movement A loose network perhaps tens thousands farright antigovernment extremists sovereigns share certain conspiratorial beliefs sometimes desire profit government whose legitimacy deny
Do realize read Mr Mortons workshop description ALL considered Incompetent Wards State Residents Chattel Property US Federal government declare Emancipation Learn secrets get government back life One secrets called bond process By submitting right set papers Mr Morton said could wipe mortgage tax bills student loans
Mr Mortons message appeal beyond tinfoilhat crowd In America Great Recession plenty people upsidedown mortgages student debt inclined believe anyone offering help Ms Lavender listening husband recap workshop intrigued Years earlier shed borrowed 48000 help son attend college She husband worked mortgage industry Southern California decades educational debt unfamiliar terrain I never gone college told recently I took loan I shouldnt Ms Lavender lost job deferred payments interest kept piling By time held Mr Mortons business card hands owed 70000
She realized UFO gathering unusual venue debtrelief advice Her husbands annual gettogethers XFiles crowd hobby goodnatured punch line family But size intractability loan balance weighed also trusted husband thought Mr Mortons bond process worth checking She told I think probably enticed might little tiny kick pants government
As Lavenders came discover sovereign fraudsters snakeoil salesmen time Peddling bouquet grifts varied tax fraud real estate scams prey suspicion institutions financial illiteracy greed despair You dont even buy sovereign dogma get swindled You need Ms Lavender debt From 1990 2013 farright extremists carried 600 financial schemes resulted criminal charges according researchers run US Extremist Financial Crime Database affiliated National Consortium Study Terrorism Responses Terrorism clearinghouse kind
That adds conservatively public losses 1 billion The majority perpetrators either sovereigns ideological cousins tax defiers Fraud crossburning white supremacists expression belief
Sovereigns sometimes call freemen state citizens foundational document broadly subscribe alternate version American history The tale vary sovereign sovereign goes roughly like At point corporation secretly usurped United States government went bankrupt sought aid international bankers As collateral corporation offered financiers us As sovereigns tell birth certificate Social Security card benign documents contracts enslave
There believe pathway freedom Renounce contracts otherwise assert sovereignty Mr Morton said told Social Security Administration I dont want number Then one taxman police tell Not sovereigns con men belief system lends deceit You might declare diplomat nonexistent country Mr Morton represented Republic New Lemuria Dominion Melchizedek Or start fake Native American tribe Or blow court case American flag courtroom gold fringe Some sovereigns even lashed violently law enforcement officers theyre considered domestic terrorism threat
Many sovereign myths hark back creation 1913 Federal Reserve It weird complicated instrument controlling monetary system People saw sinister author J M Berger told In recent paper Mr Berger traced circulation ideas part company named Omni Publications something like Infowars middle 20th century One Omni title The Federal Reserve Conspiracy claimed enemy aliens infiltrated banking system biographies could found Whos Who American Jewry Sovereign lore often rooted antiSemitism By 1970s intellectual father sovereign citizen movement William Potter Gale helped spread type falsehood larger audience
The founder antigovernment group Posse Comitatus Mr Gale aligned emerging movement tax protesters argued instance paying taxes form involuntary servitude In turn introduced warped version America patriots establish legal system hang defy Mr Gales specific gift wrapping nonsense enough legalese sounded real If movement offers essentially lot magic words say get trouble thats going really appeal people desperate angry Mr Berger said Mr Gales outreach success Over time line thousands tax protesters Posse members blurred
Take redemption theory popularized part Gale associate Remember corporationslashfakegovernment used us collateral According sovereign lore means government set secret accounts names Some believe contain oddly specific amount 630000 To clear pure fantasy according Internal Revenue Service
One way sovereigns try make imaginary money real abusing legitimate IRS forms Lawabiding taxpayers use Form 1099OID example report original issue discount income But sovereigns write fake OID income fake withholding order claim illegitimate refunds If file return risk least large fine Yet 2012 2014 according Treasury Inspector General Tax Administration IRS received close 7000 sham OID filings
Chronically underfunded understaffed IRS investigators refer two dozen sovereignscam cases average prosecution year The agency sometimes misses returns raise suspicion For example 2016 IRS discovered sizable redemption scheme processing 207 bogus returns disbursing 43 million Thats another reason strange theories persist begun leach sovereign network general population Sometimes improbably work
Mr Morton born 1958 comfortable childhood Northern California tutorial make sales pitch His mother Maureen Kennedy Salaman San Francisco magazine described millionaire evangelical alternativemedicine fanatic promoted questionable cancer treatments
She also member John Birch Society farright group known paranoid anticommunism stockpiled beans grains ammunition case Russian invasion In 1984 chosen vicepresidential nominee Populist Party favorite white supremacists Its presidential candidate following cycle former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke In acceptance speech warned crowd Were evil powerful conspiracy world ever known
When Mr Morton reached adulthood sold unorthodox beliefs behind suburbandad veneer flop dark hair round cleanshaven face buttondownandkhakis wardrobe He charismatic also childlike friends said ego easily bruised He branded investigative reporter within UFO world 1990s Mr Morton appeared The Montel Williams Show made outrageous claims 100 alien species visited Earth certainty Nobel laureate I got close enough one things floating around desert actually get face burned said
Even UFO enthusiasts considered kook Mr Mortons fans didnt care The truth Sean David Morton Branding prophet plumbed newage convention circuit alongside specialists animal telepathy chakras hauntings angelic gemstone messages afterlife Near end millennium convention Las Vegas blueeyed reddishhaired woman approached Back Utah Melissa Thomson grown Mormon home married 22 worked banking spare time doted pedigreed cats even serving treasurer local Cat Fanciers group The Coast Coast program escape spent hours fangirling Mr Morton frequent guest
At Las Vegas convention Ms Thomson apparently one goal meet idol It love first sight Mr Morton said She soon left husband joined Mr Morton Southern California Her oldest brother Robert told The found warned Melissa decent person But promised movie roles theyll inherit Mommys home Atherton condo Tahoe All could see dollars When got married family refused attend
Through lawyer Ms Morton declined comment Mr Morton respond multiple requests comment although said YouTube last fall The New York Times conducting massive smear campaign Unless otherwise noted quotes article court records
The Mortons lived Hermosa Beach surf spot 20 miles downtown Los Angeles Next minipalaces oatmealcolored apartment building resembled servants quarters short stroll Pacific Ocean Mr Morton welcomed new wifes bushytailed Norwegian forest cats new litter arrived dozen scampered around apartment turn oversaw administrative side Sean David Morton He shilled conspiracy fiction The Dark Prophet Veil AntiChrist CDs Everything You Wanted Know About Future Vol 2 65 newsletter thousands subscribers TOMORROWS HEADLINES TODAY
Either wasnt particularly lucrative wasnt lucrative enough replicate Mr Mortons childhood wealth From outside hard tell He always asking try help something could raise money said Susan Shumsky fellow fixture newage circuit Like Lets trip Peru I money Lets teleseminar I make money Ms Mortons pedigreed kittens sold hundreds dollars apparently kept solvent At various points also dogwalked worked Disneyland Their friend Will Chappell said It leading charge leading family She necessary accomplish goals
Early relationship website called UFO Watchdog Exposing Parasites Delusional Personalities Morons Frauds Currently Clouding UFO Issue dismantled much Mr Mortons official biography Mr Morton sued case dismissed But email included case file Ms Morton waved findings I would concerned Sean DIDNT critics Some greatest people history people attacking every step It means Sean something right trying make difference world
By 2006 couple expecting windfall Ms Salaman poor health died Mr Morton assumed hed inherit mothers fortune But relationship already frosty iced final weeks Ms Salaman didnt even want son wife visit She cut even kept 100000 trust Great Dane Duke
They went berserk Ms Mortons brother recalled Its scam scam scam
While sovereign citizen movement inherently organized members firmament become known gurus vectors spreading ideology Mr Morton often lectured Living Temple new age shop south Hermosa Beach The owner favored black Tshirt five flying saucers admonition KEEP LOOKING UP yoga music ommed clutter apothecary bottles bags herbal something miraclecleanse guidebooks cropcircle DVDs
One day likely 2008 man named Brandon Adams started showing Like Mr Morton budding sovereign amplifier much younger untucked buttondowns looked like attempt playing dressup His family ran local taxprep business His whole thing banks Mr Morton said later What considered great criminal conspiracy Internal Revenue Service banking cartels Mr Morton quickly got speaking slot
Some Mr Adamss talks recorded Pacing front dozen people scribbling phrases stick figures whiteboard wove dark tale The secret bankruptcy The peopleascollateral Then twist The banks skimming money fractionalizing every transaction make He told group could reclaim funds via Form 1099OID
From folding chair Mr Morton looking grayer rounder Montel Williams days asked Mr Adams anyone really gotten big refund way Yes Mr Adams said The funny thing watch quiet people start get theyre sure process start getting returns Laughter Theyve got mentality Im going say I got two hundred fifty grand
The audience lapped This America financial crisis The banks bailed homeowners era Tea Party rallies Occupy Wall Street encampments imminent It wasnt much leap suspect Washington cahoots likes JP Morgan Mr Adamss Living Temple talks drew large enough crowds moved bigger venue sold private coaching 200 hour It became movement really Mr Morton said Mr Adams respond multiple requests comment
In spring 2009 Mr Adamss tutelage Mortons tried OID scheme Mr Morton filed four years returns 2005 2008 claimed nearly 4 million refunds His wife filed 2007 return claimed 12000 I never ever ever thought I breaking law Mr Morton later said I thought law His faith bolstered April got refund one returns direct deposit Washington Mutual account 48032255
In 2010 Securities Exchange Commission went Mortons different scheme one connection sovereign ideology Mr Morton used unconventional celebrity years earlier begin investment club would channel psychic powers predicting foreign currency markets Its risky type trading Mr Morton bragged forecasts accurate even Henry Paulson Treasury secretary relied
After hearing Mr Morton promote fund Coast Coast man Washington State invested 217000 An elderly New York woman parted 20000 Hes promising stars recalled Tim Saunders Alaska electrician poured life savings 135000 Yeah greed came I felt I needed quickly In 100 people invested 6 million Mr Morton sank half foreigncurrency trading nearly lost At least 240000 funneled nonprofit Mortons set authorities dont know rest In 2013 SEC 115 million judgment Ms Morton relief defendant meaning accused profiting scheme
The Mortons filed bankruptcy repeatedly misled government instance claimed bank accounts A court eventually denied discharge meaning couldnt get rid debt They also tossed beachadjacent apartment Bottom line Ms Morton told bankruptcy trustee one day I want able get decent job nice place live pay taxes life back
It around time Mortons turned hawking debterasing sovereign scheme known bond process Over two years helped people around country send nearly two dozen fake bonds IRS Quicken Loans PennyMac Bank America Chase Bank treasurers office Contra Costa County California Early 2015 Barbara Lavender woman whose husband met Mr Morton UFO conference gave call
Ms Lavender 61 frontdesk clerk adult school When I met last year Hemet Calif nearly 90 parched miles east Los Angeles ranchstyle home trimmed red Christmas lights We chatted kitchen table 14yearold dog Remy curled feet She explained spoke Mr Morton phone avoided talking sovereign ideology Instead said could purchase portion bond held almost magically make educational loan disappear
To wipe 70000 balance suggested Ms Lavender send 2500 less 4 percent owed She husband believed Mr Morton discovered sort workaround rich people find You know testified later You hear time wealthy tax loopholes kind thing
The bond looked authentically bureaucratic formal scalloped border It really certificate paper Office Depot The accompanying paperwork said student loan company entitled paid back fund reality United States taps help stabilize foreign currencies Mr Morton said warned Ms Lavender Look I dont know going work Im lawyer He added Its going depend whether accept
A month Mortons mailed bond package Ms Lavender checked educational loan balance saw hadnt budged wrote Ms Morton email She didnt get response Ms Lavender sent followup followup This beginning feel increasingly like scam wrote October bilked hardearned money spare
Ms Morton finally replied said shed recovering knee surgery Ms Lavender sent almost apologetic response Her attention elsewhere husband died suddenly brain mass Once hear Sean let know thinks next wrote With husband gone debt even greater burden main breadwinner
Nothing came exchange That winter two men jackets showed Ms Lavenders home questioned Mortons bond process outcome Afterward Ms Lavender took one business cards nephew works local sheriffs office Yes reassured They really IRS
On Jan 31 2016 nearly 200foottall whiteandblue cruise ship called Ruby Princess docked Port Los Angeles About 100 guests board paid 3000 marketed ConspiraSea Cruise weeklong jaunt Mexican waters American paranoia Vaccinations Do You Really Know Whats Coming Through That Needle Conspiracy Steal Your Body Soul As Mortons prepared disembark arrested federal agents
After years digging IRS investigators Mortons faced suite charges related tax filings fake bonds Once Ruby Princess Mr Morton led workshop called From Fascism Freedom separated patted asked medications took Mr Morton said ask Melissa An agent Cyanide said seething On way jail added Do favor tell Sean Thank Ill see next life
Their trial began Tax Day 2017 The prosecution told simple story greed I submit IRS slot machine one prosecutor Valerie Makarewicz said Keep hitting spin Keep playing hit jackpot The day Mortons got 48032255 refund said went bank drained nearly account Once IRS realized mistake tried recoup money Mortons filed two rounds bogus returns set fake bonds
Ms Mortons lawyer presented goodfaith defense She thrall sovereign gurus said people kind strutted back forth stage answer everything He showed jury 37 pages perfectcursive notes Ms Morton took Brandon Adams lecture In courtroom obviously nonsense But time people believed Melissa Morton believed
Mr Morton represented Im rapist thug war criminal said opening statement I didnt run Nazi concentration camp murder millions children
Serving lawyer also meant crossexamined witnesses Are familiar bankruptcy United States 1933 asked governments fraud expert It reference sovereign conspiracy theory
No witness said Im
During closing argument trials fourth day Mr Morton told jury Norwegian forest cats Earlier week said wife tried save premature kitten They stayed late swaddled cloth fed milk eye dropper The kitten died anyway Ask implored jurors Do send nice people care kittens raise cats jail forever The panel deliberated two hours When returned Ms Morton greeted hopeful smile The verdict guilty counts She fainted
Around time prominent sovereigns facing reckoning A court permanently barred Mr Adams preparing tax returns promoting OID scheme ended prison peddling fake money orders Another guru ConspiraSea Cruise named Winston Shrout workshop Conspiracy Court System awaiting trial Oregon
Mr Mortons sentencing set June But 11 hearing started didnt show
Agents spotted afternoon outside Dominos Hermosa Beach gray hood sunglasses shrouding much face He hopped white Ford Escape headed south The next morning tweeted plea donations Melissa cats need help relocating
Two months passed Mr Morton resurfaced via video friends online talk show Project Camelot Getting Truth Out One Whistleblower Time His hair mussed hed startled awake wore headset black Vneck darkrimmed glasses took
His version hello ripping judge prosecutors biggest gang criminals youre ever going see Soon turned attention impending solar eclipse This one biggest turning points American history said The video clocked 40000 views It vintage Sean David Morton say impossible tell anything believed
I asked Will Chappell known Mortons decade whether actual sovereign dogmatists He said She definitely believed story Sean telling I believe Sean believed story telling A little bit I believed And convictions Melissa course knowing knew would gone long time ago I think Sean would still done He still thinks missed step
The solar eclipse took place August week Mr Mortons onthelam interview Though Ms Morton promised court would contact fugitive husband couple rendezvoused hotel outside Palm Springs That morning moon briefly blotted sun Mr Morton lounging poolside swim trunks purple mountains arrayed eclipse glasses side An IRS agent walked It
At sentencing Ms Morton distanced I living embodiment love blind wrote judge If I ever questioned teachings processes others I told I question others far smarter I There thousands attendees workshops seminars It convincing wellorganized believable How could thousands people wrong She sentenced two years prison filed appeal Behind bars passed time taking classes résuméwriting watercolorpainting embroidery watching Food Network recently transferred halfway house Emails posted Project Camelot site suggest husband still touch
Mr Morton sentenced six years prison Hes representing appeal court papers argued hed improperly profiled terrorist sovereign citizen On Project Camelot hes unrepentant even sharing pardon request said sent President Trump
Its work RADIO TV INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM DEEP STATE forces within DOJ put wife I prison YEARS wrote Of course suggestion correct injustice donate PayPal account
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raphael Minder
MADRID The simmering conflict Catalan independence roared back center Spanish attention Tuesday 12 people went trial roles botched secession attempt 2017 Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez scrambled keep issue toppling government
The eagerly anticipated trial Spanish Supreme Court Madrid drawn enormous attention broadcast live national television could soon overshadowed political crisis unfolding blocks away Parliament
On Wednesday Mr Sánchezs minority Socialist government faces crucial parliamentary vote national budget If majority lawmakers reject including Catalan lawmakers far backed prime minister almost certainly forced call elections
With Spains government hanging balance Supreme Court intense pressure demonstrate remain impartial politics case ignited passions recriminations The Catalan separatist leaders indicted charges include rebellion holding independence referendum declaring independence October 2017 moves Spanish courts ruled unconstitutional
The secessionist conflict split Catalan society also helped reshape Spains politics Mr Sánchez came office unexpectedly June winning vote noconfidence previous conservative government backing Basque Catalan nationalist lawmakers
To stay office needs maintain support separatist parties governed Catalonia wealthy northeastern region Spain since 2015 But Quim Torra leader regional government insisted party would back national budget unless Mr Sánchez agreed consider another independence referendum prime minister refused
On Tuesday María Jesús Montero Spains budget minister told lawmakers trial conflict Catalonia polarized debate budget insisted government cede blackmail separatist lawmakers
We always betting political dialogue within constitutional framework make clear framework nothing outside constitutional order said
Mr Sánchezs attempt renew political dialogue separatists recently labeled treason leader Spains conservative party Pablo Casado
Almost every aspect criminal case subject intense political feuding location trial Madrid rather Barcelona decision Spains judiciary deny bail defendants keep prison since late 2017
The defendants supporters see conditions reinforcing independence movements complaints oppressive central government Opponents secessionism hand hope prison sentences Catalan leaders deter illegal attempts break Spain
Within main chamber frescoed Supreme Court building built 18th century panel seven justices 12 defendants listened opening arguments Tuesday Oriol Junqueras former deputy leader Catalonia occupied frontbench
Andreu Van den Eynde lawyer Mr Junqueras opened proceedings cast case matter free expression right protest right vote
We make political defense defend human values rights Mr Van den Eynde said The defendants argued already faced legal proceeding every constitutional right restricted
A handful indicted politicians missing trial however including Carles Puigdemont former leader Catalonia fled Brussels successfully resisted Spains attempts extradite
Outside Supreme Court building television crews heavy police surveillance jostled space 600 journalists accredited cover trial
In surrounding streets protesters carried Spanish flags denounced Mr Sánchez handling Catalan conflict called ouster small echo antigovernment demonstration drew tens thousands people Sunday
I rely judges politicians havent done put end attempt destroy Spain said Santiago Pulido house painter held sign drawing two defendants devils horns
Some defendants face 25 years prison found guilty sentences much heavier Mr Pulido said They responsible dividing Spanish people making people fight within country I think serious crime
The trial expected last least three months But budgetary defeat Wednesday could force Mr Sánchez call elections summer means could take place verdicts made public
Opposition politicians want Mr Sánchez hold general election May 26 Spain already hold municipal regional elections well votes European Parliament
Speaking outside courtroom Mr Van den Eynde defense lawyer said trial views already politicized could influenced snap election
Were trying stay focused trial said know politics change everything change



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Paul Mozur Austin Ramzy
HONG KONG The Chinese electronics giant Huawei sued United States government Wednesday arguing unfairly incorrectly banned security threat
The lawsuit force government make case company public could also leave Huawei vulnerable deeper scrutiny business practices relationship Chinese government
The United States argued Huawei poses risk equipment could used Chinese authorities spy communications disrupt telecommunications networks That position led major wireless carriers United States avoid Huaweis equipment
Huawei denies allegations says lawsuit meant prove engage practices The companys plans file lawsuit first reported Monday The New York Times
The US Congress repeatedly failed produce evidence support restrictions Huawei products Guo Ping Huaweis rotating chairman said statement announcing filing lawsuit We compelled take legal action proper last resort
The lawsuit filed United States District Court Plano Tex Huawei American headquarters argues part 2019 National Defense Authorization Act unconstitutional singles Huawei The act bans government agencies contracting Huawei companies use companys equipment
Huawei Chinas biggest maker telecommunications equipment pressure months United States authorities Now striking back The suit part markedly aggressive legal public relations offensive Huawei recently mounted push back spying accusations
During news briefing broadcast official Huawei feed Twitter Mr Guo pulled punches
The US government long branded Huawei threat hacked service stolen emails source code said referring National Security Agency documents provided former contractor Edward J Snowden showed agency pried way Huaweis systems
Still US government sparing effort smear company mislead public Huawei added The briefing streamed Twitter American internet platform blocked China reached two million people
In December Meng Wanzhou daughter Huaweis founder chief financial officer company detained Canada behest United States seeking extradite
Her father Ren Zhengfei companys founder since rejected claims daughter said would wait see President Trump would intervene case Ms Meng court week Vancouver British Columbia part extradition hearing
In meantime Huawei battled many customers nations said would pull back buying products China also retaliated Canada detaining several Canadian citizens This week Canadian officials also complained China begun suspend import canola country
Lu Kang spokesman Chinas Ministry Foreign Affairs said Thursday Chinese decision based discovery pests Canadian canola
China long history interrupting trade countries middle diplomatic spats In September 2010 China halted export rare earth metals Japan two months dispute sovereignty cluster tiny islands Japan Taiwan Weeks later China suspended trade talks Norway halted import Norwegian salmon Nobel Peace Prize awarded Chinese dissident Norwegian committee
Huaweis lawsuit argues singling company Congress violated constitutional principles separation powers also bill attainder clause prohibits legislation singles person entity punishment without trial
The actual intended effect prohibitions bar Huawei significant segments US market telecommunications equipment services thereby inflicting immediate ongoing economic competitive reputational harms Huawei companys lawyers wrote suit
They added prohibitions carried without fair hearing opportunity rebut allegations without opportunity escape
The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab filed ultimately lost similar legal challenge two years ago After Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies ban Kaspersky products systems Congress codified directive law
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits arguing singled punishment without trial A judge ultimately dismissed lawsuits pointing came legitimate desire protect American networks
The Justice Department filed criminal charges Huawei January cases focus companys connections evading American sanctions Iran theft intellectual property Neither relates core question faced governments around world whether using Huaweis equipment new 5G networks causes security concerns
The new lawsuit seeks focus question push United States government make case While Huawei unlikely reverse American opposition company may hope win government officials countries including Europe probably following American lawsuit closely
Debate security Huaweis systems come critical moment countries around world preparing spend hundreds billions dollars expanding cellular networks next generation 5G technology
The new networks faster speeds also used connect bewildering number new sensors datacollection systems alongside smartphones That would make vulnerabilities networks potentially serious cellular networks past
Mr Lu Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman expressed support Huaweis legal action
We believe perfectly justified fully understandable companies safeguard legitimate rights interests legal means said
Many Chinese expressed support social media Huaweis legal stand United States Some others noted sarcasm difficulties similar legal recourse companies individuals within Chinas system
So sue government wrote one user Weibo Chinese social media service Interesting All sudden Im thinking actually I dont dare think
Keith Bradsher contributed reporting Shanghai Zoe Mou contributed research Beijing Qiqing Lin Shanghai



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Associated Press
MOGADISHU Somalia Gunmen Islamist militant group stormed government building Somalias capital Mogadishu suicide car bombing Saturday killing least five people including countrys deputy labor minister police said
Somali security forces fought hourslong gun battle least five assailants retake control building houses ministries labor works police officer Capt Mohamed Hussein said
The Reuters news agency citing police sources put death toll end battle 15
Saqar Ibrahim Abdalla Somalias deputy minister labor social affairs killed groundfloor office shortly gunmen stormed building Captain Hussein said
Saturday working day Somalia dozens people believed building time attack
The Shabab claimed responsibility attack building far headquarters Somali intelligence agency As attack unfolded gunfire could heard building White smoke billowed scene witnesses said
A similar attack targeting busy area Mogadishu February killed least 24 people That attack also began pair car bombs exploding popular area Mogadishu Somalis relaxing restaurants
The Shabab links Al Qaeda frequently carry suicide bombings targeting public places hotels government offices They Africas active Islamist militant group fighting years take power create Islamic state Somalia
The group continues mount lethal attacks despite pushed Mogadishu part African Union peacekeepers It mostly operates rural areas countrys south
The group carried many deadly attacks neighboring Kenya retaliation Kenyas deployment 2011 peacekeepers Somalia
The United States military carried number deadly airstrikes recent months Shabab


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
France Dispatch
By Adam Nossiter
BAYONNE France The government Paris disapproves But local mayor doesnt care He says continue sheltering Africans crossing Spanish border France
For JeanRené Etchegaray mayor Bayonne quiet refined city French Basque Country 22 miles border matter necessity humanitarian obligation
Since Italy closed borders migrants France tried close border migrants coming Italy Spain become prime gateway Europe migrants Africa 57000 arriving last year
Many crossing France transiting Bayonne place everything reasonable Stendhal wrote mid19th century
But Mr Etchegaray sees reasonable stance put war government President Emmanuel Macron even mayor become case study frontline management Europes migration crisis contradictions
The mayor doesnt necessarily want young men predominantly Frenchspeaking West African countries like Guinea Mali Ivory Coast hanging around forever He also doesnt want camping streets tall old halftimbered Basque houses nestled along slowmoving rivers
But wants migrants exist city condition dignity put I dont think I less said
So Mr Etchegaray took young men streets requisitioned old military barracks near train station put camp beds brought hot meals keeps place heated
The young men greet warmly shows several times day
Good man said one temporary guests Abdul Sylla 29yearold Guinea harbors vague hopes studying Close people
Official France keeps wagging finger citys mayor
It absolutely question state would give slightest aid mayors shelter Gilbert Payet recently Mr Macrons regional representative Interior Ministry testily told local reporters last month
The mayor unfazed
I saw frontiers closing far Im concerned fundamental rights cant trampled Mr Etchegaray said evoking Bayonnes heritage refuge Jews fleeing Spanish Inquisition birthplace great Jewish jurist René Cassin helped draft Universal Declaration Human Rights
The French states attitude toward mayor illustrates Mr Macrons ambiguities subject migration
germany
200 miles
Paris
switz
France
Atlantic
Ocean
italy
Mediterranean Sea
spain
30 miles
Bayonne
Bay Biscay
france
Irun
basque country
spain
By The New York Times
On one hand exalted Frances humanitarian traditions asked police treat migrants fairness
On government refused admission migrant ships put migrant rights advocates trial boasted many foreigners expelled turned back frontiers
The Italians angrily accused French hypocrisy Mr Etchegaray used word
The prefect said No recalled Maïté Etcheverry young volunteer runs shelter Bayonne
But mayor merely carried distributing blankets inquiring migrants wellbeing paying center budget local agglomeration towns runs
They said Youre going create pull factor even migrants Mr Etchegaray said laugh interview office past week
They said Youre going create another Calais said referring squalid encampments northern France since demolished thousands migrants waited mud cold misery hoping get England
So far hasnt turned way
I dont feel Im anything contrary law Mr Etchegaray said mildly
Look Im kind radical crazy person continued noting migrants stay days move
He even moved bus stop lowcost travel services front shelter make easier migrants leave And went war bus company drivers demanding illegally Africans produce identity papers
We squatters France supported City Hall Ms Etcheverry said grinning
That mayor hes deep prefect visibly interior minister said Ms Etcheverry law student Its really kind extraordinary
A selfdescribed radical proBasque independence leftist found political opposition 66yearold centerright mayor Not time
The migrants come go center day often arriving inconspicuous cars traffickers The local police say seedy district around train station nearby Spanish border city Irún become hive trafficking
One recent day group six young African men backpacks hurried single file across plaza Irún flight stairs
They bundled waiting car quickly drove Watching plaza several spotters talking furtively phones All happened right noses group Spanish police officers 20 yards away stir
French Spanish officers wait opposite sides bridge crossing river separates Spain France corner The border open unless migrant case might get stopped checked sent back
If migrants make shelter Bayonne however temporary refuge
The local police enter courtyard converted shelter long low hall staffed volunteers stocked donations food clothing The young men staying play scrabble lie quietly camp beds grateful worst seems behind
I never want see sea said Ibrahima Doumbia young Guinean crossed Mediterranean boat I fright life
With arrival cold weather fall knew growing migrant population Bayonne could longer stay one citys main squares people camping
It cold raining Mr Etchegaray said We couldnt leave anymore They cold sick hungry
The mayor formed plans initiative quickly He came directly square Ms Etcheverry recalled adding remembered saying Ill back halfhour
When returned led volunteers migrants underground parking lot municipal police temporary solution something better could found
He accompanied showed toilets Ms Etcheverry recounted He saw quiet young people helping young people But never imagined would end like center financed municipality
It mayors duty Mr Etchegaray said
The state doesnt want know added But Ive got know And emergency



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Bits
By Jamie Condliffe
Hi Im Jamie Condliffe Greetings London Heres look weeks tech news
There little fashionable 2019 desire curb Big Techs power But knowing far regulators go putting limits Silicon Valleys largest companies isnt straightforward
At one extreme calls break Big Tech Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines week called Ms Warren Massachusetts Democrat argued companies shouldnt offer products platforms controlled like Apples selling apps App Store something Spotify called European regulators Wednesday She also said would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions Facebooks takeovers Instagram WhatsApp
Her pitch isnt perfect The New York Timess Kevin Roose pointed generic misses easy wins overlooks big issues But bold inspiring rally cry Big Techs biggest critics
At end spectrum tech companies Ideally likes Facebook Google would love perpetually operate lightly regulated world helped grow quickly But even Mark Zuckerberg Facebooks chief executive acknowledged inevitable regulation testified House Energy Commerce Committee April
Theres plenty room extremes Take example report published Wednesday British government called overhaul antitrust policies Big Tech Its main proposal new regulator identify companies strategic market status block activities promoting products services search results belonging competitors hello Google
That reports authors say probusiness proconsumer solution changing antitrust law drive breakup businesses
So whos right Mr Zuckerberg least says regulatory intervention inevitable Theres strong bipartisan support regulation As line drawn thats harder say
Breaking big companies isnt easy Its expensive takes long time And doesnt always go plan The last notable attempt judge ruled two decades ago Microsoft cleaved violated antitrust law overturned appeal So Ms Warren could work cut
But may ultimately become question balancing ambition need Is better gamble breaking big companies guarantee new rules curb behavior Thats something lawmakers going wrestle
When OpenAI founded three years ago huge goal build artificial intelligence software capable human brain Its founders said nonprofit noble ambitions 1 billion funding backers pay way public could trust build socalled general artificial intelligence
Only 1 billion doesnt go far goals like Huge computing resources big salaries attract talent burn cash Actually turns profits might useful
So Wired reported Open AI announced changing business model To keep Facebook Google created OpenAI LP company take money investors need return profit like venture funds That make easier raise funds Down line might monetize technology develops But company decided cap returns investors see 100 every dollar invested
One way think figure OpenAI deems 100times return ethical margin building general AI enough make feasible endeavor much tar Big Tech brush That reasoning clearly holds inhabit Silicon Valley But interesting see profit cap enough put everyone ease
On March 12 1989 Tim BernersLee proposed idea linking digital files boss Mike Sendall called vague exciting It ultimately became World Wide Web 30 years later left much love hate existence
At event Londons Science Museum Tuesday mark webs passage fourth decade Mr BernersLee asked might look like another 30 years Heres said
Its I think us try guess
Look whats happened last 30 years The web changed really dramatically lot couldnt predicted
What say web want
We want web open We want web royaltyfree We want web discriminationfree
Worthy goals And article wrote past week Mr BernersLee laid steps may required ensure happen
Governments must translate laws regulations digital age They must ensure markets remain competitive innovative open
Companies must ensure pursuit shortterm profit expense human rights democracy scientific fact public safety
Platforms products must designed privacy diversity security mind
And important citizens must hold companies governments accountable
Thirty years Mr Sendalls analysis might apply equally well proposal
Elon Musk really dislikes whistleblowers According Businessweek Mr Musk Tesla chief executive set destroy one employee leaked details raw materials wastage company
How Google pay executives accused misconduct Handsomely Two shared total 135 million according details emerged lawsuit week
Who fund next wave tech startups Thatll millionaires created companies like Airbnb Uber go public
You care TikTok You might never use could reshape social media know
Scientists dropped smartphone blender Because apparently best way work much cobalt gold substances
How disappear almost completely A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps going dark staying online
Silicon Valley wants build monument To Silicon Valley obviously
Jamie Condliffe editor DealBook newsletter He also writes weekly Bits newsletter Follow Twitter jme_c
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Vivian Yee Hwaida Saad
BEIRUT Lebanon Lebanons newly formed government gives Islamist movement Hezbollah key ministries raised concerns country could run afoul sanctions United States prohibit material support Iranbacked group
On Friday United States warned Hezbollah propping agenda new position includes key posts Lebanons government including Ministry Health
American officials concerned Hezbollah use ministry provide statesubsidized health care patronage jobs supporters possibly even fighters helping endure punishing American sanctions made difficult group offer usual social services Shiite Muslim base
We call new government ensure resources services ministries provide support Hezbollah said State Department spokesman Robert Palladino
As new cabinet coalesced Thursday nearly nine months political deadlock assistant United States Treasury secretary terrorist financing Marshall Billingslea warned Hezbollah tried exploit ministries funnel money undertake activities support terrorist agenda significant concerns
Hezbollah expected gain strength government group allies expanded share seats Lebanons parliamentary elections last May significantly weakening Westernbacked prime minister Saad Hariri bloc Now control Health Ministry fourthlargest budget government ability embed Lebanese state institutions made bigger target elusive prey United States designated terrorist group
Lebanons political system awards posts patronage spoils politicians different religious affiliations order maintain balance among countrys 18 officially recognized religious sects There long history ministers stripes using Health Ministry provide free subsidized health care supporters Analysts believe Hezbollah may try whether Shiite base troublingly United States Hezbollah fighters wounded Syrian civil war next door
This yet another example Hezbollah openly holding Lebanons security prosperity hostage said Rachel Mikeska spokeswoman American Embassy Lebanon She added United States prepared take whatever actions necessary protect interests Lebanese people
She declined say actions might But analysts said possibilities ranged relatively restrained reducing funding Health Ministry squeezing international donors like World Health Organization dire The United States could theoretically impose sanctions Lebanese hospitals preventing export American medications Lebanon cut American military aid Lebanese Army
It unclear Hezbollah might Health Ministry Trump administration would consider violation sanctions law President Trump signed October Analysts said Hezbollah may chosen Dr Jamil Jabak 63yearold internist close ties Hezbollah health minister try avoid direct sanctions ministry Dr Jabak member Hezbollah said served personal physician groups leader
Would Washington consider free health care Hezbollah members provided Health Ministry example significant financial support wrote Michael Young political observer journalist Carnegie Middle East Center Beirut opinion column last year Its difficult say would never
The United States various interests Lebanon often end conflict including comes Hezbollah It wants counter Iran proxies also maintain Lebanons stability war Syria continues burn also wants battle terrorism push back Russian influence Middle East
Though Washington designated Hezbollah terrorist organization actions around world close relationship Iran group also baked legitimate parts Lebanese state making difficult United States target without also affecting rest country
The debate US Lebanon always prioritize balance competing priorities said Firas Maksad director Arabia Foundation Washingtonbased think tank leans toward proSaudi Arabia antiIran policies
On one side debate antiIran hardliners argue Iran Mediterranean Hezbollah uses Lebanese political elite Lebanese government thin veil political cover Mr Maksad said
Those voices include Republicans Congress members Trump administration may push cutting aid Lebanese Army significant source support armed forces well Health Ministry
Opposing hawkish views including much traditional foreign policy establishment prefer measured response
Given Lebanons floundering economy political instability Mr Maksad said dont want whole place come The prospect economic collapse greatly increased pressure countrys political factions strike powersharing agreement
They also argue reducing military aid would leave room Russia expanded influence across Middle East make inroads Lebanon
In general sanctions financial tools come primary stick used United States Iran regional partners On trip Beirut last week Mr Billingslea urged Lebanese officials exclude Hezbollah involvement countrys banking financial sectors called reforms would allow Lebanese authorities block freeze accounts associated group
But Hezbollah continues expand influence Lebanese institutions sanctions may prove overly blunt tool hitting legitimate government services civilians addition party
In past Hezbollah played smaller role government could easily separate Hezbollah state institutions said Hanin Ghaddar LebaneseAmerican analyst Washington Institute Near East Policy frequent critic Hezbollah
Now Hezbollah commanding broad swath government asked How keep stability Lebanese institutions going Hezbollah everything
But Kassem Qassir Lebanese political analyst close Hezbollah said concerns Hezbollahs dominance overblown
Nobody sole control Lebanon neither Hezbollah anybody else said Lebanon diverse country
In televised interview Saturday Hassan Nasrallah organizations secretary general said group intend meddle Lebanons balance power
But Mr Maksad noted Hezbollah managed forge pacts Christian Sunni politicians well Shiite ones held formation new government prime minister Sunni agreed allow Hezbollahs Sunni allies cabinet unmistakable mark strength
Of new faces 30seat cabinet Dr Jabak physician leading ministry closely watched West attracted immediate attention
I dont belong political party said radio interview Friday


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Julia Jacobs
Forty years ago CSpan went live first public broadcast House Representatives chamber giving Americans televisionshaped window lawmakers behave ornate room history often made
Ushering CSpan era March 19 1979 Al Gore representative Tennessee pushed networks access Capitol
From day forward Mr Gore said time every member body must ask many Americans listening debates made
Since day CSpan debuted four employees network become mainstay American politics We spoke Susan Swain one CSpans two chief executives birth network Washingtons initial resistance caught camera network adapted social media age
This interview Ms Swain joined CSpan three years started edited brevity clarity
In moment Al Gore approached lectern House chamber CSpan went live changed American politics
The fact people could actually see elected representatives living room phones fundamental change In past people might pull lever every two years member Congress super engaged might read newsletter came mail go occasional town hall meeting
This meant time interested could watch member Congress say Prior television Congress time members really got attention big names like Kennedy something outrageous either positively negatively member leadership
Initially lot resistance Washington idea CSpan broadcasting House floor debates And Senate didnt allow CSpan another seven years Why resistance
Members concerns cameras would swinging around taking pictures members focused attentively debates heaven forbid closing eyes second Or today perhaps might sending tweet
One ways finally came bear created compromise members could live The compromise House Representatives speakers office would control cameras floor House All rest Congress press conferences hearings CSpan news organizations covering independently
Every time theres change speaker sent letter saying Nows time Allow CSpan journalistic organizations put cameras side side That argument continues go nowhere
Were politicians selfconscious theyd appear camera
I think concern wouldnt control picture The Senate finally acquiesced classic story American politics
The House coming peoples living rooms via CSpan regularly nightly news could picked regularly nightly stories House Television loves pictures would stories House The Senate becoming concerned becoming secondtier citizen Congress
The person really instrumental Senator Robert Byrd West Virginia one oldline members much institutionalist much concerned Senate would change He went home West Virginia speak introduced West Virginia home state speaker House And big shock white hair thenSpeaker House Tip ONeill And brought home So convinced recalcitrant members vote CSpan went June 1986
What one significant memories time CSpan
The day Challenger shuttle exploded televising live I believe I air shuttle going And became clear watched picture shuttle major catastrophe
We sat watched long NASA took pictures story began unfold Then opened phone lines There incredible outpouring around country people witnessing absolute tragedy human tragedy also technological tragedy unfold front eyes
CSpan given politicians platform connect directly constituents social media Is CSpan still relevant
CSpans relevance comes form events cover every day within minutes televise digitized stored video archives It 250000 hours political video weve covered since 1987
That means member Congress pull clip hearing send constituents It also means people social media latenight comedians immediate access
I think people 20s younger experience CSpan social media latenight comedians The creation video library 1987 every bit significant original creation CSpan
CSpan long fought cameras allowed Supreme Court chamber What chances youll succeed
I feel little bit like Sisyphus pushing rock hill What documented years people nominated Supreme Court go committee hearings expressing open mind concept get inside chamber nine manage convinced others would detrimental institution
We keep hoping generations change younger appointees come familiar media even social media attitude change But institution continues prevail
Follow Julia Jacobs Twitter juliarebeccaj



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Benjamin Mueller
LONDON Britains tottering efforts leave European Union remained impasse Thursday allies Prime Minister Theresa May tried keep deal alive face unbending opposition
The deal already defeated twice Parliament given new life Wednesday Mrs May promised Conservative Party colleagues hardline supporters leaving bloc would step passed let someone else take next stage talks Brussels process known Brexit
Who could Britains next prime minister Here contenders
But even offer resign enough assuage hardline Conservatives putative allies Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland DUP hate deal
So government tried new tack Thursday Ministers said would disassemble Mrs Mays deal two parts one called withdrawal agreement political declaration ask Parliament vote Friday first
The withdrawal agreement outlines terms Britains exit European Union political declaration deals tangled question future relationship bloc
The basics Brexit troubled plan Britain quit European Union
The speaker House Commons John Bercow said would allow Parliament vote plan changed substantially since rejected resoundingly twice Thursday said government met test
Ministers pitching vote proBrexit hardliners last opportunity secure Britains exit European Union coming months lest proEuropeans Parliament take control try frustrate Brexit force longer delay
Ministers also hoped date vote March 29 originally scheduled day Britains exit would put symbolic pressure proBrexit Conservatives swallow objections back Mrs May
But withdrawal agreement contains contentious pieces Mrs Mays plan
Among socalled backstop least temporarily binds Britain greater extent Northern Ireland European trading rules avoid customs checks historically contentious border Ireland part European Union Northern Ireland part United Kingdom
Unionists Northern Ireland reject backstop believe would create regulatory differences Northern Ireland rest United Kingdom putting union risk
And British news media reports late Thursday said unionists intended vote Mrs Mays plan Friday considerably narrowing prime ministers path victory
There hope among Conservatives splitting Mrs Mays plan two would strengthen case opposition Labour lawmakers whose main objections political declaration withdrawal agreement
But Labour leaders reacted angrily idea Thursday noting Mrs May previously said two pieces plan inextricably linked
Keir Starmer senior Labour official warned Thursday splitting would leave us blindest blindfold Brexits He referring Labours fear Parliament passed part Mrs Mays plan prime minister resigned hardline proBrexit politician like Boris Johnson would take shape crucial next stage negotiations
Stephen Doughty Labour member Parliament said This looks like trickery highest order
Confusion swirled day Parliament governments plans ministers leaving lawmakers dark would voting Friday late afternoon
At time antiBrexit lawmakers working behind scenes pick alternate plans put Parliament Monday case Mrs Mays deal pass
The antiBrexit lawmakers buoyed votes Parliament Wednesday night catalog proposals clashed Mrs Mays
Those included onceradical ideas like holding second public vote Brexit revoking Britains decision leave altogether well Brexit plans would see Britain keep closer ties Europe Mrs Mays proposal envisioned
The votes represented first time two years Brexit negotiations Parliament allowed express feelings alternate plans lawmakers hoped would show path compromise
But chagrin Mrs Mays opponents eight alternate plans failed muster majority leading British newspaper The Guardian run headline front page Thursday No No No No No No No No
Some proposals got close A plan customs union Britain European Union lost six votes Mr Bercow said tallying error originally led say eightvote margin
And option holding another referendum test Britons views leaving bloc attracted support expected 268 members voted favor 295
The result proposal second referendum coming weekend hundreds thousands people marched London another vote five million signed petition asking cancel Brexit sign views antiBrexit politicians grown intense process drags
The nonbinding votes set stage another round debate Parliament Monday menu alternate options whittled politicians given second chance coalesce behind new plan
If Mrs Mays withdrawal agreement passes Friday Parliament would meet European Unions deadline completing Brexit process extracting Britain bloc May 22
If Britain could crash bloc without deal April 12 analysts say would calamitous exit could ask longer extension
Mrs Mays offer resign another reminder anxiety Britain Brexit Conservative Party politics still dictated large degree members leadership ambitions
ProBrexit politicians like Mr Johnson long angling take Mrs May chance sooner rather later seemed enough many back months fierce opposition deal
Mr Johnson said Mrs Mays deal strapped suicide vest around country Another hardline proBrexit lawmaker Jacob ReesMogg said prime ministers plan would turn Britain slave state
On Wednesday said would back deal



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Jim Tankersley Patricia Cohen
WASHINGTON The longest government shutdown United States history resulted shocking number taxpayers calls Internal Revenue Service going unreturned left languish hold unusually long periods according government audit released Tuesday
The audit office National Taxpayer Advocate found five million pieces mail went unanswered 87000 amended tax returns processed shutdown thousands IRS workers furloughed working without pay
The issues especially acute since followed significant changes tax code ushered President Trumps 15 trillion tax overhaul left many people questions filing returns
The problems continued even shutdown audit found In week ended Feb 2 shortly agency employees returned jobs fewer half calls IRSs accountsmanagement lines answered compared nearly 90 percent week last year The typical hold time callers increased 17 minutes four minutes 2018
There similar frustrations called agencys socalled balancedue line hopes making payment arrangements taxes owed Fewer 7 percent calls answered typical wait stretched 80 minutes
IRS officials said reviewing taxpayer advocates findings
We continuing assess impact shutdown various operations across agency remain proud many IRS employees risen resulting challenges agency said statement The IRS committed continue making improvements across information technology tax enforcement taxpayer service operations
Data released agency last week showed Americans filed 12 percent fewer returns Feb 2 compared point 2018 IRS processed 26 percent fewer returns The agency given indication Tuesdays statement otherwise might consider pushing back Aprils tax filing deadline order account shutdownrelated snags
The taxpayer advocates audit focus solely shutdowns impact reflected effort office led Nina E Olson capture typical taxpayer experience dealing IRS The audit said many Americans feelings process could boiled two words extreme frustration
The audit found policy change made Trump administration intended simplify taxfiling process creation postcard size 1040 form made filing difficult new form include much information many taxpayers need complete returns
The new schedules force taxpayers crossreference transfer data credits deductions income increasing potential errors occur since tax information dispersed many pages needs tracked reported different schedules forms report says
The problems became apparent 35day shutdown ended Jan 25 underscored agencys deeper flaws including reliance 1960sera technology audit found The systems contain official record taxpayer accounts oldest federal government
For last 25 years IRS tried unable replace audit says citing budgetary constraints
The outdated systems deprive IRS comprehensive view taxpayers accounts hampering agencys ability properly identify targeted outreach collections audits
Inadequate financing primary cause agencys failings audit found Congress long beat IRS routinely condemning performance cutting budget For example money technology improvements 2018 fiscal year reduced 62 percent 110 million year
Taxpayers called IRS last fall advice new tax law would affect frequently told tax law personnel time due budgetary cuts disconnected audit found Part reason decision agency answer tax law questions three half months January tax filing day
A lack information also meant vast majority taxpayers eligible use free software file returns electronically take advantage program Of 106 million taxpayers could qualify free program fewer 25 million use
Because editing error earlier version article referred imprecisely 62 percent reduction financing Internal Revenue Service 2018 fiscal year It applied technology improvements specifically general improvements


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Dan Bilefsky
MONTREAL Canadian diplomats posted Cuba suing government claiming failed protect respond robustly mysterious illness acquired stationed Cuba
The illness known Havana Syndrome affected dozens American Canadian diplomats posted Cuba come symptoms like memory loss sleep disturbance nosebleeds saying heard strange highpitched sound
The suit filed week federal court Toronto says Canadian government slow respond provide sufficient medical treatment diplomats children targeted 2017 strange debilitating attacks resulted brain injuries without evident physical trauma
Paul Miller lawyer representing 14 diplomats spouses children suing compared attack preceded illnesses science fiction horror film
He said plaintiffs seeking 28 million Canadian dollars damages
It tragedy diplomats kids lifelong trauma attacks said
The plaintiffs identified pseudonyms sensitivities related work nature injuries concerns expressed Canada relating according suit
The murky circumstances illness drawn international speculation Neither United States Canada determined cause leading speculation kind microwave weapon could involved
Last month Canadian government said would withdraw half diplomatic staff Cuba another employee fell ill condition said affected 14 Canadian employees spouses dependents
So far 26 Americans affected similar illnesses according State Department
Speaking reporters Washington Wednesday evening Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland declined comment specifics case But said met diplomats affected health safety priority
Its privilege serve Canada around world also really hard something whole families said Im really concerned Canadas utmost sympathy support
One Canadian career diplomat party suit said familys lives turned upsidedown The diplomat requested anonymity still worked government said stationed Cuba 2017 suddenly fell ill debilitating headaches initially attributed stress
After hearing American cases Havana Syndrome said connected symptoms highpitched noises coming backyard
She said 10yearold daughter affected well waking heavy nosebleed later suffering headaches forced miss school
She said Canadian government waited months seeking treatment diplomats prevented warning colleagues posted Cuba
The diplomat said emotional trauma suffering mysterious illness exacerbated feeling government believe
The suit contends despite knowing risks similar attacks American diplomats 2016 Canada continued send diplomats Havana It accused government playing seriousness situation leaving victims contend rumors faking
The plaintiffs also contend government restricted information could share doctors tried stop University Pennsylvania Center Brain Injury Repair studying syndrome testing Canadians
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Dave Philipps
SHREVEPORT La Transgender troops like Senior Airman Sterling Crutcher seen unreasonable burden Trump administration It says presence hurts morale militarys ability fight place uniform
Thats news Airman Crutcher He got back deployment B52 bomber squadron fellow airmen squadron counts among best friends threw shower wife Aimee celebrate first child born February
Sign weekly At War newsletter receive stories duty conflict consequence
At level issue Airman Crutcher 30 said serving transgender I meet exceed standards people I work like They lot questions dont problem
This uneasy time transgender troops United States military caught commander chief wants court injunctions least temporarily said could stay The last injunctions lifted Thursday
But dozens transgender troops like Airman Crutcher said interviews felt supported service Their comrades commanders welcomed said military often accepting homes neighborhoods left enlist
Nearly 1000 troops officially deemed transgender currently serving American military according Defense Department another 228 process enlisting They globe wide spectrum roles infantry officers armor platoon leaders drill sergeants intelligence specialists Arabic linguists nuclear reactor operators A transgender instructor teaches leadership Naval Academy
They started coming publicly 2016 military lifted longtime ban concluding would significant negative impact budgets operations But President Trump announced abrupt reversal policy Twitter year later saying would longer allow transgender troops serve capacity
The Defense Department laid arguments excluding transgender troops House Armed Services Committee late last month James N Stewart senior Pentagon official testified transgender troops prone mental health issues troops transition medical treatments make nondeployable months factors said would make recruits ineligible serve stemmed kinds preexisting health conditions
Mr Stewart retired Air Force general rejected calling policy ban saying policy drafted presidents Twitter announcement still allows transgender troops serve long never transition
He argued troops transitioned ranks could also raise complicated questions physical fitness standards access shower bathroom facilities may upset others leading unnecessary debilitating leadership challenges
Other troops military leaders disagree Five transgender troops also testified hearing said aside uncertainty created change policy encountered problems transitioning uniform Instances harassment according Sparta association transgender troops
And testimony Senate last spring heads Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps said aware issues caused transgender troops serving openly
Airman Crutcher says people outside unit realize transgender He relaxes weekends playing video games Airsoft gun battles troops unit
Theres nothing remarkable either way said Senior Airman Kyle Daily serves squadron There people unit dont agree theyre minority
Many transgender recruits come socially conservative small towns strict religious upbringings spent youth feeling like misfits Some troops born anatomically male said interviews enlisted initial hope military service would drum feminine feelings
I hoped would straighten I didnt want family hate said Aylanna Anderson Air Force staff sergeant raised Catholic tiny West Texas town became Eagle Scout I hoped I could leave I saw dark part behind
To surprise enlisting 2012 Sergeant Anderson said found culture emphasized judging people ability identity She began transition female 2017
The military freeing said phone Kunsan Air Base South Korea repairs electronics F16 fighters I dont know I could done otherwise
Airman Crutcher grew Pentecostal household rural Missouri said wrote heartfelt letter family lifelong sense boy girls body refused read asking instead drugs
By contrast came Air Force commander said reaction What I need I want make sure supported
A days back deployment Guam bomber squadron shopping crib pregnant wife got text mother
But wasnt birth mother says essentially disowned told 2015 transgender It Air Force mother Kim Thomas wife lieutenant colonel informally adopted meeting basic training He spends holidays family calls Mom
Shes best Airman Crutcher said leaned wifes phone see photo Ms Thomas sent new outfit baby It lifechanging support family love matter
Ms Thomas said taking Airman Crutcher wing came naturally Here amazing kid volunteered fight die country said We going allow go military without support
A 2016 RAND Corporation study found nearly onefifth transgender troops plan transition medically Those transition may depending gender preference undergo hormone therapy breast removal procedures like surgery make facial features voices gender appropriate All covered military
Transitioning troops also request surgery change genitals approval process recovery time lengthy The Defense Department respond questions many gender reassignment procedures performed troops since ban lifted 2016 Sparta estimates figure six
The cost disruption associated surgery chief complaint critics RAND study estimated factors would negligible fewer 200 active troops transitioning per year total cost less 10 million In interviews troops transitioned said tried time surgical procedures scheduled lulls unit activity sometimes put deployments demanding work assignments
Even transitioning detour careers Some Sparta members said removed sensitive jobs pilots air traffic controllers nuclear missile operators concern might mentally unstable
Regulations get way well Airman Crutcher sent home early 2016 deployment Qatar medical staff discovered testosterone treatments receiving violated rule injected medications troops deployed region
I crushed said My major called said fought stay regulations
Capt Alivia Stehlik transgender woman graduated West Point man 2008 completed Armys punishing Ranger School led infantry platoon She Army physical therapist stationed Fort Carson Colo
In interview home said transition seen asset burden
She volunteered deploy Afghanistan infantry brigade last spring units regular physical therapist became pregnant Captain Stehlik spent nearly year hopping helicopters base base treating sprains injuries medical bag one hand M4 rifle
Sixfootthree broadshouldered said would pretty obvious 1700 soldiers treated transgender never problem
Its woman I still job I man I actually better Captain Stehlik said People actually open I made vulnerable I think I still guy might downplayed much things hurt tried act tough And I might


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Elizabeth A Harris
The United States Copyright Office said dance first popularized TV show The Fresh Prince BelAir could copyrighted actor created according court documents filed week
Alfonso Ribeiro actor played Carlton show one several performers sued video game makers recent months saying dances purchased performed avatars games stolen Mr Ribeiro sued Epic Games maker Fortnite Battle Royale well TakeTwo Interactive Software makes NBA 2K16
But copyright office convinced Mr Ribeiro called Carlton Dance enthusiastically swings arms sways hips eligible copyright protection saying simple routine complex enough clear bar
That surprise least said Robert Brauneis codirector intellectual property program George Washington University Law School
Its like word short phrase Professor Brauneis said The copyright office always taken position words phrases copyrightable exactly like word phrase dance You could repeat word phrase indefinitely Im shaking hips Im shaking hips repetition doesnt make fragment subject copyright protection
Courts bound copyright offices decision could reach different conclusion Professor Brauneis said copyright offices determination would taken consideration
Mr Ribeiros lawyer David L Hecht said planned ask copyright office reconsider even individual movements considered simple way clients arranged movements considered choreographic works
Its combine notes musical composition said Those compilations would entitled copyright protection law
Mr Hecht said Mr Ribeiro submitted three copyright applications Two rejected one still consideration Mr Hecht said request copyright rapper 2 Milly rejected tried register Milly Rock ask copyright office reconsider But clients better luck Russell Horning teenager known Backpack Kid able register office 30second dance Mr Hecht described variant dance called Floss
Epic Games TakeTwo Interactive declined comment Friday


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Richard PérezPeña Stephen Castle
LONDON A small influential party aligned Prime Minister Theresa Mays government suggested Friday still support plan Britains departure European Union development could doom hopes persuading Parliament pass deal next week third try
The Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland holds 10 seats 650seat House Commons But central sticking point talks British withdrawal handle border Northern Ireland Ireland partys position carries disproportionate weight others Parliament
Parliament twice rejected agreement Mrs May negotiated European Union Britains departure known Brexit times DUP voted largely concerns border issue
If Parliament rejects deal still possibility cliffedge Brexit short term much longer delay renegotiate agreement leave
Mrs Mays position appears grow precarious day chances winning approval Brexit deal hold power Longstanding talk could ousted party Parliament whole intensified becoming constant rumble background says
On Tuesday speaker House Commons John Bercow ruled could bring plan vote third time without substantive change On Wednesday delivered speech blaming Parliament paralysis angering lawmakers sides
On Thursday European Union leaders agreed postpone March 29 departure date rejected prime ministers request threemonth delay giving next week win parliamentary approval deal come alternative April 12
If deal agreed Parliament Britains exit pushed back May 22 On Friday came blow Democratic Unionist Party Monday lawmakers try seize control Brexit policy Mrs May
Nigel Dodds leader DUPs caucus Parliament said statement posted partys website inexcusable Mrs May met blocs leaders major concessions
The government far willing capitulate securing necessary changes would get agreement House Commons said
His party many others support withdrawal contend Mrs Mays deal could leave Britain trapped making subject European Union economic rules indefinitely And treating Northern Ireland differently rest nation say deal risks splitting United Kingdom apart
Nothing changed far Withdrawal Agreement concerned Mr Dodds said We accept deal poses longterm risk constitutional economic integrity United Kingdom
Mrs May planned try third vote Parliament would need win votes 70 members That considered tall order even Mr Doddss message several Brexit supporters prime ministers Conservative Party said would follow DUPs lead
She still days win critics unlikely take Mr Doddss statement partys final word But another blow capping frenetic week setbacks
With Mrs Mays leadership questioned fellow Conservatives third rejection plan would increase pressure resign Her shifting signals might proceed defeat alienated lawmakers
She little room error Conservatives short majority able govern recently support Democratic Unionists
On Monday Parliament scheduled consider could first major step toward taking control process away government It vote whether hold rapidfire series votes specific alternatives plan
A similar proposal defeated last week two votes 314 312 Mrs Mays standing improved since
Having Parliament state preferences could allow form crossparty consensus emerge favor form Brexit keeps closer ties European Union Mrs May party would like That would require reopening negotiations bloc would mean long delay
European leaders made clear doubt Parliament approve Mrs Mays plan one reason willing grant short postponement The extension makes April 12 new date Britain leave union Parliament rejects deal Mrs May create credible alternative
Leaving without pact place Europe would upend Britains trade relationships experts say would serious economic damage prospect prime minister used pressure want soft Brexit Brexit
But hardcore Brexit supporters like idea nodeal withdrawal insist predictions harm wrong leaving little incentive support Mrs May
Meanwhile proEuropean Conservatives regard abrupt chaotic departure dread may motivated turn vote Monday exert parliamentary control
Under new timetable Parliament approves Mrs Mays deal Brexit take effect May 22 giving Britain time work details
The alternative European Union officials said long delay possibly two years Britain rethink position possibly restart negotiations



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maggie Astor
The House Oversight Reform Committee investigating allegations voter suppression Georgia Secretary State Brian Kemp since become governor
The investigation revealed letters committees Democratic leaders sent Wednesday Mr Kemp successor secretary state Brad Raffensperger The letters instructed Mr Kemp Mr Raffensperger Republicans provide March 20 wide range documents concerning voter roll purges holds placed voter registration applications polling site changes closings votingrelated issues
The committee also requested documents related potential conflict interest Mr Kemp faced administering election candidate
The Committee particularly concerned reports Georgians faced unprecedented challenges registering vote significant barriers casting votes tenure secretary state 2018 election Representatives Elijah E Cummings committee chairman Jamie Raskin head Subcommittee Civil Rights Civil Liberties wrote Mr Kemp
Mr Kemp Republicans committee immediately dismissed investigation political effort aimed undermining results election Democrats lost
Make sense people issues ideas shaping American politics newsletter
The letter outlined several points scrutiny 2018 governors race Stacey Abrams Democrat posed strong challenge Mr Kemp normally solidly Republican state
Many voters especially heavily AfricanAmerican counties waited polling places hours hundreds available voting machines sat unused government warehouses letter noted State officials sequestered machines response federal lawsuit said vulnerable hacking
Tens thousands voter registration applications mostly AfricanAmericans held state law requires name application exactly match name applicants government ID even missing hyphen cause problems
Mr Kemps office purged 14 million voters rolls tenure States required keep rolls uptodate remove people moved including Georgia much zealous others starting purging process basis voter cast ballot recently And county state officials closed 200 polling places 2012 2018
Throughout campaign Mr Kemp denied intentional voter suppression Asked comment Wednesday spokesman directed The Times video news conference Mr Kemp suggested investigation politically motivated distraction important issues
They need quit playing politics Mr Kemp said news conference pivoting attack House Democrats giving billions dollars disaster aid Puerto Rico farmers fixing lose farm He said nothing substance allegations document requests spokesman respond followup email
Mr Raffensperger current secretary state said received letter office looks forward open dialogue thorough process
Mr Cummings Mr Raskin Democratic committee leaders immediately available interviews Wednesday But decision open investigation evidence House Democrats newly empowered November election intend act aggressively issues like allegations voter suppression back burner first two years Trump administration
Representative Jim Jordan committees ranking Republican said spokesman highly unusual congressional committee involve states election
This squarely purview state Georgia House Oversight Committee Mr Jordan said statement We cant help think attempts Democrats insert committee states business attempt relitigate election result like
Mr Kemp narrowly defeated Ms Abrams ended campaign declaring This speech concession concession means acknowledge action right true proper




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos
WASHINGTON A powerful Democratic House committee chairman investigating possible abuses governments security clearance process stepped demands Friday see key documents interview potential witnesses White House light new report President Trump personally intervened grant soninlaw topsecret clearance despite legal national security concerns
The chairman Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland leads House Oversight Reform Committee accused White House new letter stonewalling requests information implied comply voluntarily would issue subpoena compel cooperation
He said report published The New York Times added new concerns Mr Trump lying public role clearance process existing broader questions irregularities surrounding access sensitive government secrets
If true new reports raise grave questions derogatory information career officials obtained Mr Kushner recommend denying access nations sensitive secrets Mr Cummings wrote letter Pat Cipollone White House counsel The letter went ask President Trump concealed role overruling recommendation General Kelly Mr McGahn felt compelled document actions office continuing withhold key documents witnesses Committee
The report The New York Times said Mr Trumps intervention concerned senior administration officials John F Kelly White House chief staff documented action contemporaneous internal memo said ordered grant Mr Kushner topsecret clearance
The Times also reported Donald F McGahn II White House counsel wrote memo documenting concerns raised CIA officials Mr Kushner Mr McGahn memo noted recommended giving broad access governments secrets
Mr Trump told The Times January Oval Office interview role Mr Kushners clearance
Mr Cummings pursuing reported irregularities White House Trump transition team since 2017 Republicans control House But started broad inquiry last month taking control oversight panel Congresss muscular investigative body said hoped would shine light national security risks may exist
He specifically requested information clearances nine current former administration officials including Mr Kushner Among whose clearances intends scrutinize Mr Trumps current former national security advisers John R Bolton Michael T Flynn onetime staff secretary Rob Porter former senior director National Security Council Robin Townley former deputy national security adviser K T McFarland well Sebastian Gorka former deputy assistant president
Mr Cummings also asked documents related review security clearance process Mr Kelly conducted 2018 concluded serious flaws system meant vet highlevel officials And Mr Cummings wants talk personnel White House Personnel Security Office
The White House said Friday thus far complied
In sign House Democrats would seek elevate issue oversight agenda Representative Adam B Schiff California chairman House Intelligence Committee said Thursday panel responsible overseeing American intelligence agencies would work Mr Cummings
Mr Schiff called Mr Trumps actions latest indicator presidents utter disregard national security men women sacrifice much every day keep us safe
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Kenneth P Vogel
WASHINGTON Michael D Cohens congressional testimony Wednesday revived questions whether President Trump broke law failing disclose footed bill hush payment pornographic film actress
Members House Oversight Reform Committee grilled Mr Cohen served decade presidents socalled fixer 130000 payment made 2016 presidential election actress keep quiet claim affair Mr Trump
Mr Cohen testified reimbursed installments Mr Trump company Trump Organization starting early 2017 payment actress Stormy Daniels
But Mr Trump failed list arrangement outstanding debt owed Mr Cohen financial disclosure statement submitted June 2017 government ethics laws requiring top federal officials divulge detailed information finances On 2018 form included footnote listing repayment 100001 250000 Mr Cohen raising questions whether 2017 filing improperly omitted debt Democrats pounced omission Wednesday
Donald Trump inflated value assets documents given Deutsche Bank Michael Cohen testified
Why think president provide accurate information 2017 financial disclosure form Representative Carolyn B Maloney Democrat New York asked Mr Cohen What trying hide
Mr Cohen responded Mr Trump trying avoid publicly revealing payments reimbursement funds I extended behalf
Mr Cohen asserted later Mr Trumps goal providing reimbursements installments order hide payment
The hush payment become increasing problem Mr Trump initially said 2018 unaware payment Ms Daniels He later acknowledged existence payment series Twitter posts asserted payment nothing election could considered undisclosed campaign contribution
Last year Mr Cohen contradicted pleading guilty litany charges including violating campaign finance laws connection hush payment
In congressional testimony Wednesday Mr Cohen elaborated payment scheme motivation It either somebody wire funds purchase life rights story Ms Clifford going end sold television would embarrassed president would interfered election Mr Cohen said referring Ms Daniels whose legal name Stephanie Clifford
He produced financial records showing fronted 130000 home equity line well two 35000 checks one Mr Trump one account linked business said among 11 payments reimburse hush payment
Ultimately said paid 420000 year connection hush payments explained included funds allow pay taxes payment 60000 bonus
All done express direction Mr Trump Mr Cohen testified We discussed said Everything go Mr Trump approved Mr Trump
The testimony seemed buttress claims Democrats government watchdog groups Mr Trump knowingly made false statement United States government omitting debts owed Mr Cohen 2017 personal financial disclosure statement
This congressional oversight actually yielding new evidence wrongdoing highest level government thats something congress supposed system checks balances said Noah Bookbinder executive director Citizens Responsibility Ethics Washington
His group filed complaint last year Justice Department Office Government Ethics asking investigation whether Mr Trump failed disclose debt And Wednesday said look like technical paperwork violation really goes issue keeping voters knowing need know make educated decisions


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maureen Dowd
Opinion Columnist
WASHINGTON Donald Trump specializes spectacular breakups
First Ivana Then Marla Now comes trouble paradise Kim
Last fall Trump cooed North Korean dictator wrote beautiful letters fell love president canceled lunch date following disappointing rendezvous Hanoi
Yet crazy tabloid splits international spats seem pallid comparison pathetic spectacle Congress Wednesday heartbroken ex publicly bitterly processing relationship Trump
This time wasnt lust betrayal secrets splayed across Page Six This time Congress part investigation could lead legal jeopardy Trumps impeachment president
In testimony Michael Cohen called fool came Trump I ignored conscience acted loyal man I Cohen said A fool love held thrall Trump How could anyone held thrall sleazy goofball much less offer take bullet make 500 threats behalf
It seems unbelievable I mesmerized Donald Trump I willing things I knew absolutely wrong said Cohen Goodfellas accent adding around icon intoxicating
Mr Trump enigma Cohen said He complicated I
Actually Trump simple grasping money attention fame The enigma Trump cut lap dog brutally Cohen fell embrace Robert Mueller New York federal prosecutors Trump often compared mob boss Michael Corleone would never turn loyal capo one crossed
The portrait Cohen drew Trump surprising It apparent time president con man racist cheat liar See Jared Kushner security clearance
What compelling congressional hearing portrait sadistic relationship sycophant sociopath
Cohen told House Oversight Committee working Trump made feel involved something greater somehow changing world
Threatening sue people take away livelihoods ruin reputations isnt exactly Greenpeace Doctors Without Borders But Cohen chugging Trump KoolAid He saw Trumps protector thugs thug
In late 2017 appeared get misty talking Vanity Fairs Emily Jane Fox Trump One man wants much good many detractors needs support He vowed would never walk away Trump matter A year ago even shopped around book meant rebuttal Michael Wolffs Fire Fury pitched family fixit guy titled Trump Revolution From Tower White House Understanding Donald J Trump
He understands Trump
A stung Trump went tweet storm Friday morning bringing book proposal calling love letter Trump manuscript noting Written submitted long Charlottesville Helsinki phony reasons going rogue Book exact opposite fake testimony lie
Unlike many Republican TV commentators wash away past sins Sarah Palin Iraq war get big payday liberal love trashing Trump Cohen destined reputation rehab
The problem nutshell Trump biographer Timothy OBrien told The Times Michael Cohen wasnt Roy Cohn The latter Trump lawyer one helped shape Trumps character lack thereof drumming winatallcosts mentality Donald learned fathers knee
Trump bleated Wheres Roy Cohn anger Jeff Sessions recusing wanted lawyer whipsmart amoral ruthless predatory Cohen merely Renfield Trumps Dracula gratefully eating insects fiends bidding
Trump used Cohen dirty deeds done dirt cheap ACDC sang
The Wall Street Journal reported Trump showed late Cohens sons bar mitzvah made belittling speech come Cohen begged everyone around The Times revealed last April Trump regularly threatened fire Cohen quoted Roger Stone saying Trump mocked Cohen overpaying Trump real estate
With exceptions inner circle family Trump doesnt give loyalty deserve Thats Republicans Hill obsequiously stand eventually learn wasnt worth Cohen warned
Loyalty rare commodity Washington And Cohen wretched sycophant political history That honor goes Andrew Young slavishly devoted aide John Edwards 2008 campaign served driver personal shopper handyman butler North Carolina senator
When Edwards affair campaign videographer Rielle Hunter pregnancy ensued persuaded Young say father Edwards also got Young go lam wife nurse Hunter baby hiding fancy hotels posh home near Santa Barbara odyssey financed Young Bunny Mellon As Young wrote The Politician inside campaign cultlike atmosphere encouraged extreme sycophancy
When Trump gave tour campaign headquarters Trump Tower summer 2016 introduced Cohen lawyer Cohen looked furtive standing around Trump favorites Corey Lewandowski Hope Hicks young guys desk whole bunch Trump portraits cutouts wall pictures Trumps vanquished primary rivals
It least presidential campaign headquarters ever drywall still unfinished places As The Times reported Cohen pushing years Trump president jealous attention Trump gave Lewandowski
When Trump somehow stumbled presidency family think Cohen snuff come Washington much less get highlevel job like chief staff dreamed The Journal reported Cohen guests even get priority access inaugural fetes
He central casting Trump Tower 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Trump biographer Michael DAntonio told The problem course much burdens Cohen exactly Trump liked past He willing awful command done countless times making countless enemies As someone target behavior I tell cartoonish ridiculous
Everyone disposable Trumpworld They sidelined fixer By time federal prosecutors investigating Cohens hush payments Trump inamoratas adultfilm actress former Playboy model Trump barely speaking Cohen
Boss I miss much said rare phone call Trump The Journal reported I wish I Its really hard
The yearning even palpable texts Jeff Bezos Lauren Sanchez
The selfstyled protector purdah resented
If Trump sophisticated ability think long term would anticipated Cohen might become problem didnt hold close OBrien told But Trump isnt longterm thinker
Hes never deal people faceplanted coming back haunt ever Hes people decades OBrien said The difference He never law enforcement turning people essentially weaponizing
DAntonio agreed president made mistake disrespecting Cohen believed purchased Michael would stay bought When underdog turns bites hard overdog always surprised
I invite follow Twitter MaureenDowd join Facebook
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion sign Opinion Today newsletter
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
He said working Donald Trump intoxicating Were feeling hung
By Michelle Cottle
Ms Cottle member editorial board
Liar liar pants fire
It Representative Paul Gosar Republican Arizona burst forth playground taunt Michael Cohen longtime fixer personal lawyer President Trump appeared Wednesday House Oversight Reform Committee talk former boss
But Mr Gosars observation isolated zinger encapsulation partys overarching approach Mr Cohens testimony It also provides pretty good sense minds hearing likely change era bitter polarization tough bring clarity swirl controversies engulfing president
As spectacle opening Washington 12 time zones away Hanoi president wrapping friendly dinner Kim Jongun tyrannical leader North Korea Mr Trump hopes pageantry peacemaking Asia overshadow damaging testimony former confidant written lying rat
We await results Mr Trumps Mr Kims negotiations We hope edifying House hearings
Oh India Pakistan possessed nuclear weapons engaged escalating hostilities including downing two Indian warplanes Wednesday
This world live
On Capitol Hill committee Republicans waste time disputing Mr Cohens characterization Mr Trump racist con man cheat At one point Representative Mark Meadows asked Lynne Patton AfricanAmerican woman worked Trump family party planner serves administration stand behind citing proof president possibly racist Thats substantive pushback got
Instead Republicans stuck discrediting vivisecting witness Member member detailed Mr Cohens financial fraud tax evasion professional disloyalty course previous lies Congress The committees ranking Republican Jim Jordan highdudgeon dangerously overcaffeinated seemed particularly troubled origins authenticity Twitter account Women Cohen pushed ridiculous flattery Mr Cohens manliness sexy handsome
Message Mr Cohen liar swindler narcissist felon fool would listen Multiple Republicans fact went length disgrace Democrats provided platform scoundrel
While quibbling details Mr Cohen disagree Republicans critique Early often acknowledged done bad things soon would spending time prison He however one point feel moved observe Mr Jordan
I find interesting sir colleagues one question far asked President Trump Thats actually I thought I coming today
Aware credibility problems Mr Cohen showed hard proof Trumpian misdeeds personal check president allegedly used reimburse Mr Cohen payment Stormy Daniels evidence Mr Trump arranged portrait purchased charity auction straw buyer repaid Mr Trumps charitable foundation letters Mr Trump instructed Mr Cohen write warning presidents high school colleges College Board release grades test scores without permission
Mr Cohen noted threatening people Mr Trumps behalf integral part job estimating decade called upon around 500 times
The whole dreary spectacle produced fresh tidbits Mr Cohens claim Mr Trump year term explicitly directed lie presidents involvement hushmoney scheme none seem likely alter competing narratives pushed presidents critics allies Alexandria OcasioCortez Democrats star freshman laid groundwork demanding presidents tax returns issuing future subpoenas Trump lackeys Mr Cohen suggested federal prosecutors New York investigating asyetunrevealed Trumpian crimes He also ominously fretted I fear loses election 2020 never peaceful transition power
Mr Cohen said working Mr Trump intoxicating But something changed Mr Cohens performance likely first many soulbarings play hearing rooms courtrooms coming months
I regret day I said yes Mr Trump said I regret help support I gave along way
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Its another sign President Trumps weakness
By David Leonhardt
Opinion Columnist
This article part David Leonhardts newsletter You sign receive weekday
President Trumps emergency declaration border wall based obvious falsehood There emergency USMexico border And goaded declaration Sean Hannity episode makes mockery federal government
But relative scheme Trumps misbehavior emergency declaration doesnt rank high Its corruption obstruction justice Its attempt undermine Americas alliance Western Europe And doesnt even matter much immigration policy If youre trying calibrate Trumprelated outrage take deep breath morning
A presidential declaration emergency order construct wall would stupid Lawfares Quinta Jurecic wrote It would wasteful It would test limits presidents authority law question But would step toward authoritarianism Heres longer version case
Listen The Argument podcast every Thursday morning Ross Douthat Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt
This challenged courts immediately pretty easy throw thing Neal Katyal former acting solicitor general predicted Lawrence ODonnells MSNBC show last night
Trumps fake emergency sign weakness strength tweeted The New Yorkers John Cassidy He ran wall two years Republican control Congress still couldnt get financed Weak president
And Philip Klein The Washington Examiner made conservative case declaration The hope limited government conservatives emergency declaration gets quickly enjoined eventually nixed federal court At least silver lining would legal precedent would set president attempt end around Congress
The China rivalry
Ive always thought Americans would come together realized faced dangerous foreign foe colleague David Brooks writes And lo behold one China Its become increasingly clear China grave economic technological intellectual threat United States world order
I agree United States complacent geopolitical challenge China poses
If subscriber newsletter subscribe You also join Twitter DLeonhardt Facebook
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
David Leonhardt former Washington bureau chief Times founding editor The Upshot head The 2020 Project future Times newsroom He 2011 Pulitzer Prize commentary columns financial crisis DLeonhardt Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Why American conservatism Trump may learn like state
By Ross Douthat
Opinion Columnist
Since conservatism became movement 1950s American right understood defending written American Constitution unwritten one well kind cultural social constitution deeply rooted national history checks balances official political system help sustain
Under constitution America three branches government great diversity power centers religious corporate familial philanthropic Under constitution important institutions national life arent political ones theyre institutions civil society flourished conservative argument goes precisely government kept within limits state hasnt coopted crushed rivals influence power
Thus conservatives preach virtues limited government isnt Herbert Hoovers rugged individual imagine defending They envision larger communitarian panoply civic associations religious denominations charities universities private schools needs protection jealousy centralizing state And tend assume keeping American corporation embedded communitarian system better way balance productivity innovation publicspiritedness trying regulate micromanage businesses good behavior
If wanted summarize intellectual uncertainties conservatives Trump era could say right trying figure whether unwritten American constitution imagines defending still exists And doesnt failing whether means limited government slogan strategy increasingly irrelevant comes shaping society conservatives would like America
The latter argument Donald Trump implicitly pressed optimistic opponents 2016 primaries They defenders American dream conservatives long defined dark conspiratorial tones businessman rival raised set uncomfortable questions Is America still nation thriving local communities energetic civic life Is America still deeply religious country strong churches growing denominations Are American businessmen basically public spirited eager compete equal terms government removes heavy hand natural allies political movement wedded patriotism religion
For years conservative critics sociologists intellectuals acknowledging answers might countrys oncerich associational civic religious life declining dissolving corporate America embraces conservative slogans keep taxes low unions weak otherwise seems postpatriotic performatively woke silent majority hardworking pious culturally conservative bluecollar families essentially defunct
Many best conservative books last decade Coming Apart Charles Murray The Fractured Republic Yuval Levin describe emerging America doesnt much resemble Tocquevillian familychurchcommunity landscape familiar past conservative descriptions American exceptionalism The latest example Alienated America Why Some Places Thrive While Others Collapse Tim Carney mix sociology shoeleather reporting convincingly situates rise Trump context Middle Americas communitarian collapse
But accounts like Carneys acknowledge role economic forces globalization trade deindustrialization dissolution family community also tend insist contra liberals new socialist vanguard also contra Trump cultural collapse isnt primarily driven economic policy decisions cant reversed public policies programs Instead tend suggest state interventions often replace community instead strengthening cast communitarian revival necessarily local project government play best supporting dontmakemattersworse kind role
These kind arguments still continuity basic conservative posture last generations But also increasingly partisans rupture right loose group statepower conservatives hint Tocquevillian dream dying cause limited government increasingly irrelevant turn would require conservatives become comfortable using power state engaged centralized policymaking specific social cultural ends mind
This argument visible controversy surrounding Tucker Carlsons monologue month ago stirred libertarian backlash calling Republicans use government policy make American life friendlier families particularly singleearner households It also informs difference Carneys book smart rightofcenter volume moment Oren Casss The Once Future Worker The two authors share certain common ground end Carney concludes current economic social ills solved even significantly ameliorated president central government Casss whole thesis wiser policymaking could make big difference unhappy heartlanders Carney profiles
But fullest case rupture declaring era limited government offered two recent essays conservative intellectual journals Dan McCarthys A New Conservative Agenda First Things Gladden Pappins Toward Party State American Affairs Both envision conservatism oriented less toward stateasenemy stateasdanger much toward stateasshaper stateasharmonizer For instance McCarthys account economic nationalism Donald Trump transmuted something less inchoate effective
Economic nationalism tariffs It less economic nationalism takes account different needs different walks life regions country serving whole serving parts drawing together In past challenge harmonize farmers urban capital labor The challenge balance groups postindustrial classes well strengthen productive economy largely fictional economy administrators clerks All sake prosperity raw dollar terms national economy provides basis healthy culture citizens families flourish
Pappin makes similar argument political coalitions especially right adapt current challenge illiberal postliberal forces populist socialist
Rather asking question What conservativesprogressives considerable advances made certain purely practical considerations How integrity national political community assured How commercial activity technological development continue turned toward common good toward strategic advantage What reins power state ensure common good citizens
The likely answers practical questions Pappin contends require conservatives make practical use administrative state rightwing ends rather constantly returning plaintive nostalgic counterproductive calls abolition
A hostile reader essays libertarian liberal might respond vision rightwing governments seek reshape culture mediate classes resembles nothing much early20th century fascism A sympathetic reader would say plenty space statefriendly conservative politics movement conservatism Mussolini McCarthy Pappin envisioning might better described blend American Hamiltonian tradition 21stcentury update French Gaullism
And subtle reader might say theyre trying provide theory move Republican Party power tends make anyway last two GOP presidents sense big government conservatives far without strategy seriousness selfconsciousness required make project success
I enough skepticism efficacy state power uncertain project succeed But postTrump conservatives likely drawn statepower conservatism theoretical ambition sense political necessity
The earlier conservative selfunderstanding right defending nongovernmental institutions power state tacitly depended assumption many nongovernmental institutions would friendly conservative values But civil society decayed recent decades remaining power centers also become increasingly leftwing
Alreadyliberal institutions universities Hollywood big foundations mass media uniformly allied left even recent past Corporate America happily donates Republicans fears Bernie Sanders presidency cultural issues big business courts younger customers progressive lobbying propaganda In religion Catholicism Pope Francis aspires scandals permitting ease way leftward well leaving evangelical Christianity isolated bastion little cultureshaping power
Yet conservatives still win White House Congress means one power center hope control one notionally organized limit administrative state
If assume people tend seek power devise justifications seeking power plausibly exercised statepower conservatives may need strongest intellectual arguments change way right thinks state Instead limited government conservatism may give way attempt improve Trumpism clearer blueprints smarter cadres reason changes often happen political ideology people whose thinking changing feel dont choice
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTOpinion Instagram join Facebook political discussion group Voting While Female
Ross Douthat Opinion columnist The Times since 2009 He author several books recently To Change Church Pope Francis Future Catholicism You follow Twitter DouthatNYT
You follow Twitter DouthatNYT
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Eurotunnel sued Department Transport handling contracts provide extra freight capacity
By Amie Tsang
LONDON Add list headaches faced Britains government frantically tries prepare Brexit 33 million pound 44 million payment settle lawsuit brought Eurotunnel company operates rail link France Britain
Eurotunnel sued Britains Department Transport handling contracts provide extra transportation capacity event country leaves European Union without deal place
The company accused British government limiting competition open bidding contracts worth millions dollars according court filings
In December Britains government signed contracts DFDS Danish shipping company Brittany Ferries French company supply extra freight capacity bring essential goods medicines country event nodeal Brexit
The government also signed contract Seaborne Freight ferry company later found BBC run ferry service The deal came heavy criticism one lawmaker calling shell company The firm also ridiculed echoing website terms conditions business specializing takeout meals Seaborne Freight pulled contract
The government settled case Eurotunnel avoid prolonged legal tussle tries make arrangements March 29 country scheduled exit European Union
Government departments Britains businesses furiously preparing case country leaves European Union without agreement setting terms separation There fears lack clarity port arrangements could lead gridlock roads problems getting food medicine people Britain
We taking steps ensure supply chains continue function whatever circumstances departure mitigation place avoid disruption borders Stephen Barclay Brexit secretary said statement Friday
Chris Grayling transport secretary added While disappointing Eurotunnel chose take legal action contracts place ensure smooth supply vital medicines I pleased agreement ensure Channel Tunnel ready postBrexit world
Eurotunnel agreed withdraw case take unspecified actions improve security traffic flow
Eurotunnel concluded outofcourt agreement secretary state transport ensure Channel Tunnel remains preferred route vital goods travel EU UK company said
Amie Tsang general assignment business reporter based London covered variety topics including gender pay gap aviation London Fatberg amietsang
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday Want email Sign
Bipartisan negotiations forge border security deal broke yesterday potentially setting federal government another shutdown ahead Friday deadline
What happened The impasse appears center Democratic demands limit number unauthorized immigrants already country could detained Immigration Customs Enforcement officers according aides familiar talks according NYT Republicans wanted exception cap criminals Democrats said proposed 16500bed cap left enough room
Whats stake The last shutdown longest US history cost American economy 11 billion tanked President Trumps political standing public Another shutdown could cause economic harm hitting IRS tax season starts
Whats next Lawmakers could pass another shortterm spending bill though many reluctant punt final budget agreement Meanwhile Mr Trump preparing hold rally supporters El Paso Many city arent happy But really two choices according Axios shut government declare national emergency get border wall money options horrible
The Amazon founder risked embarrassment going public said extortion attempt The National Enquirer So far hes scoring big points Saturday Night Live jokes aside
His disclosure gotten results Federal prosecutors reviewing extortion claim NYT reports citing unnamed sources If The Enquirers parent company broke law would violation nonprosecution agreement paying hush money help President Trump 2016 A lawyer publishers chairman said yesterday company committed crime
And hes winning PR battle At time billionaires reviled Maureen Dowd NYT writes richest dude earth managed come traumatic week inspiring admiration Glenn Greenwald The Intercept counters would odd Mr Bezos gain pity given Amazon critical partner US government building evermore invasive militarized sprawling surveillance state
Where The Enquirer go wrong Danny Westneat The Seattle Times points picked fight head company powerful got Seattle change tax policies 3 billion tax incentives New York office space You dont pressure Amazon It goes way around Mr Westneat writes
But Mr Bezos could still lose Jon Swartz Barrons notes Amazon shares fell 26 percent Friday His handson management considered crucial success company anything pulls attention away daytoday management least concern investors Mr Swartz writes
Fears Britains withdrawal EU could roil economies officially spread across Atlantic
Wall Street warned Brexits impact With less seven weeks go UK due leave EU several SP 500 groups first time put Wall Street formal notice risks London Brussels fail reach divorce deal FT reports Companies like Lockheed Martin McCormick Expedia Cadbury spoken
Driving concern fears depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable Britain costs imported British goods could rise Theres also fear broader effect Brexit global political economic stability
American banks also nervous While US banks want Britain maintain closest possible ties EU Brexit UK banks insurers anxious dont become beholden new laws made Brussels Bloomberg reports
More Brexit news The EUs chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said reopen existing Brexit deal open reworking political declaration accompanies The British government trying secure extra two weeks win concessions Europe promising lawmakers another vote Britains withdrawal options And Prime Minister Theresa May also offered concessions opposing Labour Party break current impasse Parliament
Americans getting rude surprise Their refunds appear getting smaller despite President Trump Republicans passing huge set tax cuts year ago
How big drop The average refund 1865 84 percent smaller average refund period last year Reuters reports citing figures IRS Heather Long WaPo adds number people receiving refund fallen nearly 25 percent far The IRS warns read much figures part data result delayed processing due government shutdown
Why happening Its actually sign Americans paying taxes People generally got piece tax cut last year gradually form lower withholding paychecks Joseph Rosenberg UrbanBrookings Tax Policy Center told WaPo
People angry nonetheless The WaPo reports People already taken social media using hashtag GOPTaxScam vent anger Many blame President Trump Republicans shrinking refunds Some Twitter even said wouldnt vote Trump seeing refunds slashed
The last class tech companies gained valuations 1 billion including Uber Airbnb remade entire industries Dont expect next wave nearly flashy according Erin Griffith NYT
Who They names like Benchling Checkr Zola many create software specific industries including data analysis systems farmers background checks gig workers
Why arent exciting predecessors Ms Griffith points Uber Airbnb peers built global empires simply taking existing businesses like taxis food delivery hotels making mobile Easy opportunities disrupt traditional businesses dried forcing new companies find smaller niches
But dont underestimate potential Maybe sexy companies first wave venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded NYT But Anand Sanwal data provider CB Insights said still growing fast adding If one highmomentum companies investors going beating door much interest investing next big winner
Christine Lagarde managing director International Monetary Fund warned yesterday global economy growing slowly anticipated
She sees four big risks Trade tensions tariff escalations financial tightening uncertainty related Brexit outcome spillover impact accelerated slowdown Chinese economy clouds horizon told World Government Summit Dubai
And could spell trouble When many clouds added takes one lighting bolt start storm
But IMF thinks Fed playing smart The fact Fed put pause raising rates going provide lot support economy Gita Gopinath IMFs top economist told FT We endorse Fed view datadriven approach
President Trump expected sign executive order today meant spur development regulation artificial intelligence Cade Metz NYT writes
The news Mr Trump introduce American AI Initiative aims better educate workers field improve access cloud computing services data needed build AI systems promote cooperation foreign powers
Context AI experts across industry academia government long called Trump administration make development artificial intelligence major priority Mr Metz writes adding concerned China could surpass United States development technologies
But The order set aside funds AI research development Mr Metz adds administration provided details put new policies effect
Steve Mandel stepped head hedge fund Lone Pine Capital
Among reasons Santander rescinded offer hire investment banker Andrea Orcel Reportedly desire attend World Economic Forum Davos Switzerland
Kristina Salen former chief financial officer shopping site Etsy joined Moda Operandi luxury fashion startup CFO
The English Premier League looking America successor CEO Richard Scudamore British candidates appear uninterested job
Deals
The aluminumparts maker Arconic plans break WSJ
Apollo Global Management reportedly near deal buy Cox Enterprisess 14 regional TV stations 3 billion Reuters
The medical equipment maker Smith Nephew reportedly held talks buy NuVasive maker medical instruments spinal surgeries 3 billion FT
TPG Capital closed seventh Asiafocused private equity fund 46 billion Reuters
Politics policy
Democratic lawmakers proposing steep new taxes superrich public loves NYT
Senator Michael Bennet Democrat Colorado potential presidential candidate says cutting private health insurance part Medicare bad opening offer Politico
President Trump succeeded dividing Democrats warning socialism Hill
The biggest star Clive Daviss exclusive preGrammys gala Speaker Nancy Pelosi AP
Trade
Trade talks US China resume today Beijing Straits Times
White House officials reportedly discussed summit meeting President Trump President Xi Jinping China MaraLago next month resolve trade fight Axios
The trade agreement replace Nafta faces uphill climb Congress Axios
Tech
Some Amazon executives reportedly reconsidering decision set campus New York opponents think might bluff WSJ Recode
Huawei threatened sue Czech Republic countrys cybersecurity agency rescind warning risk company poses nations critical infrastructure NYT
Sprint accused ATT false advertising saying rival incorrectly telling customers receiving 5G data service WSJ
Tesla may finally delivering Model 3s cant keep servicing WSJ
Best rest
A new activist hedge fund Impactive Capital rarity Its female minorityled WSJ
Household staples diapers baking soda may get expensive WSJ
US colleges raised 467 billion year ended last June led Harvard 14 billion Bloomberg
Heres rundown 100 sustainable US companies according Barrons Barrons
How Feds recent Uturn rates cascaded global markets NYT
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ivan Nechepurenko
MOSCOW Russian lawmakers moving restrict freedom speech passed bills Thursday would introduce jail terms fines insulting government online spreading socalled fake news
The bills seen effort preempt control public criticism Russias prolonged economic stagnation pushes Kremlins approval ratings They reflect nearly twodecadelong project President Vladimir V Putin put information flow state control push made difficult growth internet
The new measures await final passage upper chamber parliament Mr Putins signature He expressed support restrictions insulting state online
One set bills passed lower house Duma would subject private individuals fines 3000 15 days administrative arrest insulting government online Individuals would face fines 6000 posting termed fake news
Another bill would demand news media outlets websites remove information shows clear disrespect society state symbols Russian Constitution government Internet service providers website owners would one day remove insults face complete block
Lawmakers also passed bill would force websites immediately remove false publicly important information government watchdog deems threat public order
The measures stipulate clearly would considered fake news The authors said interviews would determined state prosecutors government communications watchdog
Critics said measures loosely defined allow government block information online finds undesirable
With bills wording vague possible Vladimir A Ryzhkov opposition politician said Facebook create possibilities widest possible arbitrariness law enforcement As result societys trust government fall public atmosphere poisoned
As Russians switch television largely controlled state Kremlin allies internet main source information government made keeping web control top priority
In February lawmakers proposed creating infrastructure separate Russia global internet altogether Last year state banned Telegram popular messaging app
The Russian government opened assault socalled fake news even United States accused Moscow engaging practice disinformation campaign intended sway 2016 American presidential election
The new bills passed Russians trust government agencies Mr Putin particular steadily declining For first time since annexation Crimea 2014 number Russians say country heading wrong direction surpassed say opposite The finding came poll conducted January independent pollster Levada
The share people approve Mr Putins work president declined 20 percentage points since reached postCrimea peak 86 percent 2015
Nikolai F Uskov editor Forbes Russia magazine frequent commentator said bills governments weapon media
The government clearly getting ready protest moods grow reflected publications social networks media said speaking Ekho Moskvy radio station I dont think save state added wave anger sweep away restrictions
Follow Ivan Nechepurenko Twitter INechepurenko


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By David Zucchino Fahim Abed
KABUL Afghanistan Afghanistans coalition government fired Tuesday commissioners directed fraudtainted parliamentary elections last fall country prepares presidential race summer watches leaders sidelines peace talks unfold Americans Taliban
The move follows push opposition politicians postpone election form interim government part peace deal could include Taliban President Ashraf Ghani fumed governments exclusion AmericanTaliban talks insisted election held time
The firings came series meetings government civil society groups political parties portrayed badly needed consensus electoral reform The commissioners called dismissal political decision officials hope serve new government
The election already pushed back April July The panel behind decision Independent Election Commission one two whose members removed Tuesday
Replacement commissioners named Mr Ghani coalition partner Abdullah Abdullah charged preparing presidential election feature men candidates
Mr Ghani said central government strong mandate negotiate behalf country The Taliban dealing directly Americans refused include Afghan government consider illegitimate
Zalmay Khalilizad leader American delegation said last week hoped secure peace deal July election He said last month United States Taliban agreed principle framework peace deal
The Afghan election commission widely accused sowing confusion disarray October parliamentary elections three years late tainted accusations voterigging bribery incompetence Winners certified third 250 seats Parliament
The attorney generals office prosecuted 313 people accused violations including forging selling election stickers national ID cards needed cast vote
In statement late Tuesday office said 12 commissioners two election bodies barred leaving country investigators appointed look charges abuse authority
The firings set legal confrontation dismissed members saying move violated election law
The amendment election law presidential decree president also candidate Constitution commissioners said joint statement This political decision legal constitutional one
Mr Ghanis deputy spokesman Shahhusain Murtazawi said election results remain place He said protests could lodged second affected commission called Independent Election Complaint Commission judicial groups The head commissions secretariat remains place acting director
Given officials administered election fired roughly 2000 losing candidates expected protest If results reexamined canceled would affect preparations presidential election already behind schedule assurance required funding place
One losing parliamentary candidate Fawad Aman said anyone seated Parliament would remain cloud suspicion And commissioners punished said Afghans could lose faith electoral process refrain voting
If dismissed prosecuted means political game president influence election commissions presidential election Mr Aman said
Nayim Ayubzada head Transparent Election Foundation Afghanistan independent election monitoring group said firings made hastily government paid little attention legal process addressing fraud accusations
We worry decision president candidate may things turn things favor Mr Ayubzada said If decides hastily election issues raise questions transparency elections
Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah appoint new heads members commissions selected candidates put forward civil society groups political parties within next week
Supporters firings said necessary make commissioners accountable bungling expensive election process secured Afghan forces amid raging war Each Afghan election bankrolled international donations proved least problematic last
The 2014 presidential election fraudulent two leading candidates claimed victory nearly tore country apart prompted Western officials step mediators John Kerry secretary state negotiated powersharing government top two candidates Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah promise would prioritize election reforms avoid another fiasco
The two men slow make progress reforms given infighting government war Taliban Now Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah get name new commissioners oversee election peak summer fighting season peace process plays
Those challenges left many Afghans skeptical new commissioners Mr Ayubzada election observer said doubted presidential election would even held year process overshadowed ongoing peace talks political dealing
Mujib Mashal contributed reporting Kandahar Afghanistan




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Tuesday Want email Sign
Democratic Republican negotiators said last night agreement principle border security funding could keep federal government open
The deal includes 138 billion pay 55 miles new fencing technology staffing border protection Its 57 billion President Trump demanded build 200mile wall Democrats waived demand limits detention capacity immigrants
But theres guarantee go The House Senate would vote pact Mr Trump would sign I think everyone say Good work Representative Kay Granger Texas one Republican negotiators said Still rally Texas last night Mr Trump insisted build wall And influential Republican commentators like Fox News host Sean Hannity called deal garbage compromise
The remaining alternatives hugely unattractive Politico notes potential White House plan redirect unspent federal funds toward wall would create firestorm And another government shutdown could hit US economy endanger aviation safety
The British prime minister scheduled update lawmakers later today progress negotiations withdrawing EU
She big favor ask Mrs May focused making changes socalled backstop exit deal designed prevent hard border Ireland Northern Ireland She made little headway Bloomberg explains plan today
Mrs May update Parliament progress talks EU outline motion shell put MPs debate Thursday office said
She expected ask Parliament restate demand remove backstop Withdrawal Agreement promise vote hasnt brought renegotiated deal back Parliament Feb 27
The aim reassure members across House Commons concerned May deliberately running clock risking potentially disastrous nodeal divorce
But EU still isnt budging Its chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said yesterday something give British side
Yet Mrs May could force plan Parliament Bloomberg explains though also admits lot could go wrong
More Brexit news Britain weakest economic growth six years last year It signed trade deal Switzerland biggest since 2016 Brexit referendum And government sued awarding contract freight shipments nodeal Brexit ferry company boats
The former Fed chairman recently sat Ray Dalio Bridgewater Capital wideranging conversation topics state US principles good government Dont time watch Here highlights
On Washington Mr Volcker lamented condition US government repeating past criticisms Youve got presidents dont seem mind either personal behavior making outrageous statements true told Mr Dalio You Congress thats unable function effectively
On Civil Service For former Fed chairman important problem solve make government work appear honorable Public administrations bad word told Mr Dalio leaving important government departments without effective leaders
What Mr Volcker He set Volcker Alliance meant help schools train future government officials Its great trick Mr Volcker said How get expertise leadership need still respect popular desire
Optimism personal finances hasnt high 16 years according study Gallup
Sixtynine percent Americans expect better time next year That two percentage points alltime high 71 percent recorded March 1998 according Gallup Thats survey carried Jan 2 Jan 10 middle government shutdown
Half respondents say theyre better year ago That figure consistently half since 2007 Gallup says
The optimism hard overstate Only 11 times 109 polls stretching back 1976 least half polled said better financial shape year prior Gallup notes Only 114 polls going back 1977 Americans optimistic personal finances coming year today
Europe sleepwalking oblivion people Europe need wake late George Soros writes opinion piece Project Syndicate
Neither leaders ordinary citizens seem understand experiencing revolutionary moment range possibilities broad eventual outcome thus highly uncertain
The next inflection point elections European Parliament May 2019 Unfortunately antiEuropean forces enjoy competitive advantage balloting
The first step defending Europe enemies internal external recognize magnitude threat present The second awaken sleeping proEuropean majority mobilize defend values EU founded
The firm said yesterday would buy Solium Capital manages stock paid corporate employees 900 million Its biggest deal major Wall Street firm since financial crisis whats rationale
The bank wants millennial wealth Soliums clients include startups like Instacart Stripe could go public multibilliondollar valuations making employees rich
Wall Street approves strategy Analysts Evercore ISI wrote yesterday Solium gives Morgan Stanley real path towards organic growth next generation clients many investors questioning Matthew Klein Barrons wrote last week millennials could hold key improving American productivity wealth
And banks seem newly hungry deals Days Morgan Stanleys acquisition BBT agreed buy SunTrust biggest bank merger since 2008 crisis Banking chiefs seem heartened loosened regulations sector eager capitalize acquisitions Wed like James Gorman Morgan Stanleys CEO told WSJ And JPMorgan Chase reportedly considered buying asset manager WisdomTree according Bloomberg
Its eight months Mario Draghis finishes nonrenewable term president European Central Bank Choosing successor important difficult WSJ reports
Investors trusted Mr Draghi WSJ says navigate toxic mix risks Europe Brexit trade wars
At least five unofficial candidates appear running replace according European officials two Frenchmen two Finns German The candidates different economic philosophies clear frontrunner
The winner might chosen balance nationalities EUs leadership rather purely merit The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo chief executive Centre European Policy Studies Brussels think tank risks Its systemically important job Europe man controls show said It go badly wrong
WSJ reporters scoured fourthquarter results US companies attempt better understand slowing Chinas economic growth
What found Many companies struggling weaker demand export manufacturers China pulling back amid fears trade tensions worsen Austen Hufford Theo Francis WSJ report Retailers companies catering Chinese consumers face signs weakness among countrys growing middle class They buying fewer cars phones traveling less
The conclusion The indications slowing growth broad still modest Mr Hufford Mr Francis write
Just half PGEs directors stand reelection year utility filed bankruptcy amid California wildfires
ColgatePalmolive named Noel Wallace COO chief executive replacing Ian Cook
GV venture capital arm Alphabet hired David Schenkein former CEO Agios Pharmaceuticals cohead life sciences
Apple named Frank Casanova longtime iPhone executive first head marketing augmented reality
Sony appointed Jim Ryan CEO PlayStation business
Deals
Colony Capital investment firm founded real estate mogul Tom Barrack explore selling assets activist hedge fund Blackwells Capital took stake Colony
SoftBanks Vision Fund led 940 million investment Nuro driverless delivery startup FT
Amazon agreed buy Eero makes wireless routers advance smarthome ambitions Reuters
Peloton makes videostreaming stationary bikes treadmills reportedly interviewing banks prepare IPO WSJ
DoorDash delivery startup reportedly process raising 500 million 6 billion valuation WSJ
Reddit raised 150 million Tencent users fear censorship Verge
Politics policy
President Trump Gov Andrew Cuomo New York meet today discuss revising cap deductions state local taxes Bloomberg
Democratic presidential contenders see small donors rather traditional wealthy backers test viability 2020 race WaPo
Contrary popular belief Mr Trumps presidency hurt Americas gun lobby NYT editorial
Trade
President Trump reportedly eager meet President Xi Jinping China discuss trade deal Bloomberg
American tariffs Chinese goods reduced two countries trade imbalance without helping US companies Axios
Chinese investments Israeli tech companies raising security concerns WSJ
Tech
Whats like contractor one Apples less glamorous offices Not much fun Bloomberg
Mars One Ventures promised oneway trips red planet bankrupt Verge
If New York doesnt want new Amazon campus Newark Bloomberg
Alphabet Microsoft discreetly warning AI could harm brands Wired
The Jeff Bezos saga
The American Media Inc lawyer reportedly sought deal Mr Bezoss private photos Amazon Kindle executive WSJ
American Media reportedly asked Justice Department whether needed register foreign agent ties Saudi Arabia WSJ
The WaPo found tricky situation reporting owners fight The National Enquirer cause battle NYT
Best rest
Could leveraged loans sink US economy FT
For two years Goldman Sachs bet companies strong balance sheets Not anymore CNBC
The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says theres mania share buybacks hes worried social consequences CNBC
Toys R Us planning comeback later year NYT
Is corporate America headed toward earnings recession DealBook
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Chinas openingup policies led improvements life business

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role posts creation
Advertisement
Supported
New Zealands prime minister moved swiftly ban weapons mass killing gunman attacked two mosques
By The Editorial Board
The editorial board represents opinions board editor publisher It separate newsroom OpEd section
The murder 50 Muslim worshipers New Zealand allegedly 28yearold Australian white supremacist long scrutinized way violent hatreds spawned staged social media internet But world learn way Jacinda Ardern New Zealands prime minister responded horror
Almost immediately last Fridays killings Ms Ardern listened constituents outrage declared within days government would introduce new controls militarystyle weapons Christchurch shooter many mass killers United States used rampages And delivered
On Thursday Ms Ardern announced ban militarystyle semiautomatic automatic weapons parts used turn rifles weapons highcapacity ammunition magazines Its us said national interest safety
Earlier week told Parliament social media sites must address ease internet used spew hate images violence We simply sit back accept platforms exist said responsibility place published said It case profit responsibility
Ms Ardern didnt propose immediate measures limit reach Facebook Twitter internet publishers obvious could done without trampling freedom speech But made clear believed social media platforms like gun manufacturers dealers bore responsibility carnage visited Christchurch many communities recent years
The new gun proposal require considerable finetuning defining becomes law New Zealands existing laws relatively lenient large percentage estimated 12 million 15 million firearms owned 250000 people registered It known many become illegal new laws
But display one deranged man weapons designed combat seemed persuade majority New Zealanders strong majority Parliament need ban rapidfiring weapons
That attitude stood stark contrast way National Rifle Association political allies United States resisted restrictions weapons like AR15 semiautomatic rifle used several mass killings
In New Zealand took one mass shooting awaken government In United States even string mass killings 26 dead school Newtown Conn 49 nightclub Orlando 58 concert Las Vegas 17 school Parkland Fla enough Nor fact 73 percent Americans say needs done curb gun violence according recent polling
The ban terrorists weapon choice one areas Ms Ardern showed leadership looks like time crisis In lieu trite messages donned black head scarf led group politicians visit victims families speaking without script school victims attended urged pupils let New Zealand place tolerance racism Ever She told grieving families We know grief walk every stage
And striking gesture refused utter name suspected killer He may sought notoriety New Zealand give nothing said Not even name
After atrocity worlds leaders unite clearly condemning racism sharing grief victims stripping haters weapons Ms Ardern shown way
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Get 3D view Chinas government plans 2019

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role posts creation
Advertisement
Supported
The journalist Maria Ressa facing criminal charges social media threats
By Kara Swisher
Ms Swisher covers technology contributing opinion writer
Harassing journalists one Rodrigo Dutertes specialties Mr Duterte strongman president Philippines going Maria Ressa former CNN reporter founder online news site Rappler two years The campaign combines criminal charges Facebook smears intended tarnish reputation spread lies work
Last week Ms Ressa spent night jail charge cyberlibel 2012 article Rappler published allegations corrupt ties businessman judge
When spoke Skype Thursday attempts silence said I adjust normal even nothing normal She added It scare meant scare everyone else
Technically spent night conference room rather cell National Bureau Investigation agents trying nice told
It perhaps small gracious act relentless assault Ms Ressa Rappler
Kara Swisher answered questions Twitter
Rappler President Dutertes brutal regime publishing articles extrajudicial killings human rights abuses In mid2017 State Union speech president struck back criticizing Rappler owned Americans investors indeed United States He attempted get license revoked Ms Ressa charged tax evasion Then arrest cyberlibel considered criminal act
While seemed tired legal roadblocks undaunted even funny spoke I think I paid bail Imelda Marcos said referring shoeloving wife longtime ruler Philippines went ignominy
It morning Manila journalism Instead adding security Rapplers offices protect 100 employees forking money pay lawyers Legal fees already account quarter operating budget said
She also contending relentless manipulation social media says governmentfriendly sources spread false information Rappler These trolls focus Facebook Filipinos get news She called foreign agent troublemaker tax cheat traitor ugly
Last week two people Ms Ressa suspects working government managed slip Rapplers building broadcast video Facebook Live outside door urging protests social media attacks Among comments feed Hang Ressa Bomb Ressa Behead
Government officials said enjoying attention She Ms Ressa reported video Facebook She already provided company copious evidence way platform abused Mr Dutertes troll army This time Facebook responded blocking user posted video 30 days may popped Facebook Singapore though
Its catandmouse game Ms Ressa said Facebook haphazard enforcing rules While individual executives helpful Ms Ressa said shes hard time dealing Facebook responded slowly
Facebook worlds largest distributor news yet refused gatekeeper told recent onstage interview And allow lies actually get playing field facts taints entire public sphere At point said Facebook take lies
As noted Thursday night A lie told million times truth On social media though like billion times
Ms Ressa said wished tried stop online abuse sooner We ignored far long lesson I learned
She said would continue try work Facebook social media outlets Looking social media feed impossible since I cant defend I watch reputation dragged said Lately Ms Ressa said attacks Twitter worsened And I weirdly pummeled platform users calling Ms Ressa con artist since I posted I speaking
To try deal Ms Ressa said thinks lot Reinhold Niebuhrs Serenity Prayer I look stuff area control like making sure staff safe business able continue said weary sigh I dont want story
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram sign Opinion Today newsletter
Kara Swisher editor large technology news website Recode producer Recode Decode podcast Code Conference contributing opinion writer karaswisher Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Charlotte GrahamMcLay
WELLINGTON New Zealand In New Zealand members public accustomed seeing top government officials grocery store street unencumbered security guards common parts world
The countrys prime minister Jacinda Ardern even jokingly recounted Stephen Colbert The Late Show approached chatty strangers shopped maternity bras
But Thursday morning government minister attacked walking work alone capital city leading Ms Ardern warn New Zealanders unusual level access countrys lawmakers taken granted
We environment New Zealand politicians accessible thats something feel proud Ms Ardern said We serve people But todays events really show take granted
The victim James Shaw 45 coleader leftleaning Green Party minister climate change told police grabbed hit Thursday morning attack leaving black eye cuts face After treated scene went attend meeting Parliament admitting examination hospital remained Thursday afternoon
Pete Huggins Green Party spokesman said Mr Shaw told police assailant knew name although officers said whether believe attack planned motivated
The episode rattled New Zealand Mr Huggins described closeknit community open society
Unlike many countries including United States Britain prime minister lawmaker accompanied roundtheclock security personnel government ministers lawmakers Residents Wellington New Zealands capital regularly see elected officials walking cycling streets alone politicians opt take public transportation rather using government vehicles
I would hate see go Marama Davidson lawmaker leads Green Party Mr Shaw said news conference Thursday
It would shame lose way people approach us access us country added Thats one things I value way politics New Zealand
The police arrested charged 47yearold man attack Mr Shaw The man police identify appear Wellington District Court Friday
Lawmakers across political spectrum joined condemning attack Wellingtons mayor Justin Lester wrote social media assailants behavior outrageous New Zealanders lucky unparalleled access elected representatives
Members public also expressed shock One Twitter user branded attack Mr Shaw assault democracy Another said hoped attack awful one canary coal mine moment New Zealand
Bryce Edwards veteran New Zealand political commentator said downtoearth qualities commanded respect New Zealanders We like politicians one us us said
While clear whether attack politically motivated lawmakers took opportunity denounce said trend toward overthetop reactions people disagreed politicians
David Parker trade minister lawmaker centerleft Labour Party cited called extreme opinion feeding political biases causing instability people fed social media platforms
Ms Ardern stopped short saying security beefed lawmakers The episode took place innercity area Wellington minutes Ms Arderns residence
Violence New Zealand lawmakers rare The last one make global headlines recent years 2016 government minister Steven Joyce hit face sex toy thrown protester episode caused mirth fury


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur
SHANGHAI The Chinese electronics giant Huawei preparing sue United States government barring federal agencies using companys products according two people familiar matter
The lawsuit filed Eastern District Texas Huawei American headquarters according people requested anonymity discuss confidential plans The company plans announce suit week
The move could aimed forcing United States government make case Chinese equipment maker publicly It part broad push Huawei defend campaign led United States undermine company Washington sees security threat Executives spoken strongly Americas actions new marketing campaigns aimed mending companys image among consumers
For many years United States officials said Beijing could use Huaweis telecommunication equipment spy disrupt communication networks The company denied allegations major wireless carriers ATT Verizon effectively prevented using Huaweis equipment result
Over past year Washington ramped pressure firm preparing take major role construction nextgeneration wireless networks around world American officials urged governments ban use Huaweis products This year Justice Department filed criminal charges company chief financial officer connection evading American sanctions Iran
A hearing set begin week Canada determine whether companys finance chief Meng Wanzhou extradited United States face charges Ms Mengs lawyers sued Canadian government police arguing circumstances arrest detention December violated rights
Many Canadians see Ms Mengs case example foreign moneys influence Vancouver
The criminal case Ms Meng United States could complicated comments President Trump White House engaged trade negotiations China While criminal cases traditionally independent matters Mr Trump indicated Huaweis fate could bargaining chip
During meeting Oval Office delegation Chinese officials last month Mr Trump said Well making decision asked would drop criminal charges Huawei part trade deal He added Well talking attorney general
A lawsuit Huawei United States expected challenge section defense spending authorization law approved last year The provision blocks executive agencies using telecom equipment made Huawei another Chinese company ZTE
According one people familiar matter Huawei likely argue provision bill attainder legislative act singles person group punishment without trial The Constitution forbids Congress pass bills
Huaweis plans final It could still decide change course file lawsuit
The United States Embassy Beijing immediately respond request comment A call placed outside business hours United States Court House Plano Tex Huaweis American headquarters answered
China announced espionage accusations former Canadian diplomat Monday days Ms Mengs extradition hearing set take place
In many ways Huawei case echoes another company aroused security concerns United States Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab
Around two years ago American officials began expressing worries Moscow could use companys software gather intelligence The company denied allegations But September 2017 Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies begin removing companys products government systems Congress codified ban spending law
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits response arguing prohibition amounted bill attainder In May judge District Columbia dismissed suits ruling Congress motivated legitimate desire protect government computer networks Russian intrusion The judge also said Kasperskys sales American government small fraction companys business ban especially harsh
An appeals court upheld ruling months later Banning Kaspersky prophylactic punitive measure judge appeal David S Tatel wrote
Given insignificant probability Kasperskys products could compromised federal systems magnitude harm intrusion could wrought Congresss decision remove Kaspersky federal networks represents reasonable balanced response Judge Tatel wrote
Raymond Zhong reported Shanghai Paul Mozur Hong Kong Alan Rappeport contributed reporting Washington
Follow Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur Twitter zhonggg paulmozur




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Azam Ahmed Kirk Semple
MEXICO CITY Mexican officials carrying Trump administrations immigration agenda across wide stretches border undercutting Mexican governments promises defend migrants support search better life
The Mexican authorities blocking groups migrants border towns refusing allow onto international bridges apply asylum United States intercepting unaccompanied minors reach American soil helping manage lists asylum seekers behalf American authorities limit number people crossing border
Breaking decades asylum practice Mexican government also allowed Trump administration send 120 men women children Tijuana await decisions asylum applications United States The program could expanded border crossings soon next week
Officials inside administration Mexicos new president Andrés Manuel López Obrador called stance migrants strategic decision anger President Trump
He doesnt believe change Mr Trumps mind contend Furthermore officials say Mr López Obrador wanted jeopardize aspects deeply interconnected relationship two countries ranging elaborate regional trading arrangements information sharing border security transnational crime terrorism So avoided bruising potentially costly public fight issue
A lifelong defender poor Mr López Obrador often refers plans Mexico grand transformation placing ambitions nation par great leaders
He burnished everyman credentials cutting government salaries flying coach around country opening opulent presidential palace public He also vastly reduced number Central American migrants Mexico deports soil
But everything transformed
Exhibit A Migrant Protection Protocols Trump administrations policy require asylum seekers remain Mexican side border await decisions fate Rights groups contend dumps migrants increasingly violent Mexico impairs access legal counsel family support United States
Mr López Obradors administration came office saying would cooperate Mr Trumps antiimmigration agenda gone along several fronts including accepting women children despite earlier promises take adult male asylum seekers
The Mexican government argued policy requiring asylum seekers wait Mexico imposed United States consented humanitarian reasons
It also true Mr López Obrador giving Mr Trumps border demands rarely saying word American president daily press briefings carries little political cost home
Read latest edition Crossing Border limitedrun newsletter life United States Mexico meet Sign receive next issue inbox
To many Mexicans fate migrants secondary domestic concerns jobs security corruption Mr López Obrador retains 80 percent approval rating despite governments willingness take back migrants applying asylum United States
If accept handful people back Mexico thats really problem us even politically said one official authorized discuss internal deliberations What really want avoid public fight Trump
But effort avoid crossborder fight Mexican government chosen politics humanitarian ideals critics contend
Mexico continuing play role US thinks contain migrant influx period said Melissa Vertiz Hernández coordinates Working Group Immigration Policy network civil society rights groups Mexico
The delicate balance United States left Mexican government without clear consistent immigration policy Mexican states municipalities along border often position fending pressure American counterparts
In Mexican border city Reynosa instance almost one allowed cross bridge apply asylum neighboring McAllen Texas They typically blocked apprehended Mexican officials forcing migrants try luck towns
In city Piedras Negras officials rounded hundreds migrants arrived caravan recent weeks kept tight watch shelter limited access outsiders advocates say After public outcry center closed many bused cities towns along border
The mayor Ciudad Juárez meanwhile threatened sue neighboring governor shipping migrants town It become game political hot potato desperate Central Americans fleeing poverty violence caught middle
Elsewhere along border shelter officials say manage lists asylum applicants name nationality age documentation assist Mexican officials complying American border patrol mandates
The Mexican government resisting Mr Trump ways official Mr López Obradors government insisted Even acquiescing Trump administration Migrant Protection Protocols done strategically according official two others briefed plan
By allowing program start San Diego Tijuana Mexican officials argued legal challenges United States go federal courts Northern District California generally seen liberal This matters time many Americans focused beat Mr Trump 2020 elections particular leveraging MexicanAmerican vote
But many activists far confident legal challenge put end program
I think incredibly risky move said Stephanie Leutert director Mexico Security Initiative University Texas Austin I dont think put countrys foreign migratory policy hands civil society organization another country
On Feb 14 civil society organization American Civil Liberties Union several advocacy groups filed lawsuit challenging Trump administrations policy A decision temporary restraining order expected coming days
The lawsuit filed behalf 11 asylum seekers returned Mexico recent weeks accuses Trump administration violating federal international migration human rights laws
Advocates contend forcibly sending asylum seekers Tijuana Trump administration plunged unfamiliar dangerous environment lives may jeopardy
Killings Tijuana skyrocketed recent years turf war local drug market In 2018 city posted deadliest year record 2500 killings
The Trump administration first announced new policy December Jan 28 head Mexicos migration agency said Mexican government imposed restrictions enactment
But Mexican officials backed many initial restrictions including refusal accept women children Trump administration officials said plan expand program ports entry along border The López Obrador administration said little publicly changes
In Tijuana several returnees three single men single woman two mothers traveling three children described confusion dismay finding Mexico
I idea Im going survive said Yanira 34yearold migrant El Salvador feared pursued people said fleeing home country
Yanira said left El Salvador three children ages 8 11 12 local gang tried recruit middle child threatened violence unless agreed
When stepped onto Mexican soil led back across border American officials broke
I cried cried recalled
Mexican officials said provide shelter care returnees essentially leaving network community groups Tijuana elsewhere state Baja California
But shelter network extraordinary pressure almostcontinual arrival migrants traveling caravans pushed centers beyond capacity
Sister Salomé Limas social worker Instituto Madre Asunta migrant shelter Tijuana said currently housing 120 women children space designed 44
Among migrants several families seeking asylum United States returned recent weeks Trump policy
Sister Salomé said shelter house families first court date United States late March After sure
Whats going happen said We dont know
Paulina Villegas contributed reporting Mexico City
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday Want email Sign
In wake two fatal crashes involving 737 Max 8 airplane shared similarities Boeing finds prosecutors regulators inspecting development processes safety assessments
A grand jury Washington DC issued subpoena dated March 11 day Ethiopian Airlines crash seeking documents least one person involved development 737 Max jets WSJ reports
The Transportation Department inspector generals office also reportedly examining planes design certification second deadly crash
An investigation The Seattle Times found FAA delegated wide responsibility 737 Max safety assessment Boeing The resulting analysis included crucial flaws according investigation
And Bloomberg reports early seven years ago FAA employees warned Boeing much sway safety approvals new aircraft
Boeing said statement Sunday aircraft certification processes well established consistently produced safe aircraft designs It added 737 Max certification program followed FAAs standard certification process
The ridehailing company start road show IPO today New York City It wont short ambition Lyft hopes achieve valuation much 23 billion
In updated prospectus Lyft said hopes raise nearly 24 billion IPO That figure close 216 billion revenue generated last year
At high end proposed stock price 68 company would valued 23 billion That would make stakes held companys founders Logan Green John Zimmer worth hundreds millions dollars apiece The company expected price offering March 28 would trade Nasdaq next day
Lyft poised become one biggest market debuts tech company since Alibaba Groups IPO 2014 Until Uber goes public later year least
But IPO without controversy Its facing backlash investors arent happy dualclass stock structure Paul Singer head activist hedge fund Elliott Management one writing FT oped
Those insight daring found business deserve respect But sell vast majority company public allowed run forever without shareholder input Public ownership must mean public accountability
The two German lenders announced yesterday formally begin merger talks Now must convince critics combining good thing
Deutsche Bank said reviewing strategic options shoring profitability growth Christian Sewing firms CEO told employees I consistently stressed consolidation German European banking sector important topic us
The combined bank would one Europes biggest 2 trillion assets onefifth private customers Germany
Going public signals deal political backing Germanys finance minister argued country needs strong national champion compete foreign banks Here FTs list key decisionmakers deal
But opposition merger strong German unions criticized plan fearing tens thousands job cuts And Elisa Martinuzzi Bloomberg Opinion warns wouldnt fix bigger problems German banking system
The Trump administrations campaign prevent countries using Huawei equipment 5G wireless networks faltered Julian E Barnes Adam Satariano NYT write
American officials pressuring threatening nations shun Huawei The push rooted US concerns Chinese telecom companies significant security threat could help Beijing spy nations
But really working Britain Germany India United Arab Emirates signaled unlikely follow Americas lead
The US campaign criticized lack evidence American intelligence briefings reportedly failed clearly show Chinese government used Huawei steal information Read five experts two senators say whether threat Some European Asian officials also believe President Trump may fully support fight
American officials want find ways curb Huaweis rise Mr Barnes Mr Satariano write including possibly restricting American companies supplying Huawei key components needs build 5G networks across world
More Huawei built operating system smartphones computers used company longer use software developed Google Microsoft
The financial sector hasnt felt impact MeToo much industries But David Gelles NYT reports lawsuit asset manager TCW could change
Sara Tirschwell created distresseddebt fund TCW fired 2017 sued firm former boss Jess Ravich CEO David Lippman She claimed dismissal retaliation reporting sexual harassment claim Mr Ravich gender discrimination breach contract
Ms Tirschwell alleges Mr Ravich pressured sex several times tenure firm The first encounter made feel according lawsuit rejection would mean end Ravichs crucial support
TCW Mr Ravich Mr Lippman denied allegations I Saras biggest supporter TCW role decision fire Mr Ravich said
So far theres talk settlement Mr Gelles writes Days court rare movement rarer still Wall Street grievances typically dealt private wire transfer dealt
Despite delivering disappointing returns investors many CEOs saw compensation climb last year according WSJ
Median compensation 132 chief executives SP 500 companies reached 124 million 2018 117 million group 2017 WSJ calculates
Most CEOs received substantial raises median 64 percent even though December stockmarket swoon meant companies finished year posting sluggish shareholder returns
Markets pretty well companies well economy held Robin Ferracone executivepay consultant told WSJ
But also said boards may thinking forward economic slowdown adding They know theyre going bring blooms rose
The shooting mosque Christchurch New Zealand designed go viral internet What
The attack teased Twitter announced online message board 8chan broadcast live Facebook Kevin Roose NYT writes The footage replayed endlessly YouTube Twitter Reddit platforms scrambled take clips nearly fast new copies popped replace
Online extremism regular extremism steroids There offline equivalent experience algorithmically nudged toward strident version existing beliefs Mr Roose adds People become fluent culture online extremism make consume edgy memes cluster harden And one erupts
But telling terrorists trolls isnt easy tech companies Christopher Mims WSJ argues Knowing online extremists erupt act violence virtually impossible broadcasts sudden acts violence hard automatically block
More needs done We need understand address poisonous pipeline extremism emerged past several years whose ultimate effects impossible quantify clearly far big ignore Mr Roose writes Its going away particularly getting better
PGE reportedly close naming Bill Johnson outgoing head Tennessee Valley Authority next CEO
Google named Scott Beaumont head greater China Korea operations chief AsiaPacific team
Stuart Benson resigned CFO MoviePass
Princeville Capital venture capital firm invests climate technology recruited Leonardo DiCaprio adviser
Deals
Fidelity National Information Services agreed buy international payments processor Worldpay 34 billion The companies
Caesars Entertainment Eldorado Resorts reportedly early merger talks Reuters
Private equity firms like KKR CVC Capital Partners reportedly interested buying Bayers animalhealth division Bloomberg
PagerDuty popular startup alerts IT workers tech problems need fixing publicly filed IPO Business Insider
Politics policy
Investors eagerly await Treasury Departments rules investing taxadvantaged opportunity zones NYT
Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro monologue questioning Muslim lawmakers loyalty US President Trump unhappy move NYT
Cindy Yang former owner massage parlor busted prostitution ring come scrutiny political activities including donations presidents reelection campaign NYT
Brexit
Prime Minister Theresa May expected put Brexit deal third parliamentary vote week likely contingent gaining backing Democratic Unionist Party FT
Meanwhile Labour Party appears set support plan would seek public vote Mrs Mays deal approved lawmakers Reuters
Trade
The US China pushing meeting late April complete trade deal negotiators still grappling details NYT
The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska sued US Treasury Department sanctions placed last year CNBC
President Xi Jinping China starts series state visits Europe week bid bolster trade continent Bloomberg
Tech
Marc Andreessen Facebook board member reportedly met Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Chris Wylie 2016 If true would suggest understood extent companys harvesting Facebook data He denies claim Observer Business Insider
In related news academic behind Cambridge Analyticas data mining sued Facebook defamation NYT
Apple making billiondollar bet take Netflix Will work NYT
Tech investors including MeToo clauses startup deals FT
Breaking tech giants suddenly become populist concept San Francisco NYT Bloomberg
Best rest
In wake admissions scandal colleges rethinking athletic special admissions WSJ
The Fed likely say later week little appetite interest rate rises year WSJ
Why successful joint ventures turn sour Its often success breeds desire control venture sought avoid Economist
The European Central Bank unhappy EUs plans increasing supervision clearing houses FT
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Andrew Higgins Mujib Mashal
MOSCOW Thirty years last Soviet troops retreated Afghanistan Russia Tuesday reasserted player region hosting talks Taliban senior Afghan politicians aimed speeding exit another superpower time United States
The talks held Moscows President Hotel owned Kremlin offered clearer view Taliban see end 18year war In room dripping chandeliers 50 delegates many flowing robes Western suits ties nearly old sometimes violent rivals faced across large circular conference table
While Afghan politicians part delegation led former President Hamid Karzai spoke protecting hard gains past two decades Taliban denounced new Afghan Constitution lays system governance built enormous cost
The Taliban representatives also offered rare look see role women While barred women public life time power said believed womens rights including education work claim met skepticism women Afghanistan
The Moscow gathering included Taliban delegation led chief negotiator Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai represented significant contact senior Afghan politicians Taliban since United States toppled hardline Islamist group power end 2001
Absent talks however Americanbacked Afghan government President Ashraf Ghani strongly criticized meeting affront designed undermine offices authority Afghan state
Mr Ghani uncomfortable position odds American backers sees moving quickly reach deal also others countrys political elite rallying around Americanled effort
What agreeing Where implementing power Mr Ghani told Afghan channel ToloNews Tuesday dismissing talks They could hold hundred meetings Afghan government Afghan Parliament legal institutions Afghanistan approve agreements paper
The delegation headed Mr Karzai consisted entirely former officials representatives political parties many involved countrys bloody civil war current members Parliament There two women group
Afghans social media critical delegation questioning whether represented Afghanistan
Those meeting Moscow pushed aside said Khaled Abedy 31 works private company Kabul Afghan capital They want build business The country isnt important I think sort meeting cant help peace process
But Atta Muhammad Noor one Afghan politicians delegation Moscow said participants considered representative Afghanistan Mr Ghanis government
We fighting 40 years people influence Ghani said Mr Noor longtime governor Balkh Province Mr Ghani dismissed last year
Speaking sidelines event said foreign forces including around 14000 American troops must leave Afghanistan But cautioned withdrawn gradually avoid repeat chaos engulfed Afghanistan abrupt Soviet pullout 1989
The talks scheduled last two days opened week American diplomats Taliban representatives ended six days negotiations Doha capital Qatar Each side said negotiations made progress toward ending conflict began United States invaded Afghanistan 2001 long terror attacks Sept 11
Both sides said agreed principle framework two issues Taliban guarantee Afghan soil would never used terrorist groups like Al Qaeda pledge United States withdraw troops But many Afghans concerned Americans might eager strike deal
The organizer Moscow talks ostensibly Afghan diaspora Russia Russian government But Afghan officials Taliban members said Kremlin playing major role orchestrating meeting behind scenes
Russia chastened damage done Soviet Union occupation Afghanistan shown interest getting involved militarily least directly But positioned force reckoned relishing Washingtons agonies hands Taliban insurgents
Russia designated Taliban terrorist organization 2003 first strongly supported American efforts purge Afghanistan extremist Islamist groups President Vladimir V Putin described threat Russias security
But amid rising Cold Warstyle rivalry Moscow Washington Russia hedged bets opening channels Taliban Moscow allowed 10member delegation Taliban still officially barred terrorists enter Russia Moscow talks
On Tuesday Afghanistan violence continued unabated The Taliban attacked police army outposts around northern city Kunduz dawn killing least 23 members Afghan security forces In Takhar Province gunmen attacked womens radio station killing two staff members
Mr Karzai made appeal end bloodshed saying Afghan soldiers Taliban fighters buried next
All around graveyards regular Afghans graves plenty Mr Karzai said The dream every mother hope every father buried
Mr Karzai first installed Afghanistans leader United States late 2001 relationship soured He visited Russia often since leaving office 2014 meetings Mr Putin officials aligned Moscows view United States must leave Afghanistan Soviet Union
Mr Stanekzai Talibans chief negotiator said speech lasting half hour group seek monopolize power inside Afghanistan He said pursuing Islamist government consultation Afghans group recognize countrys current Constitution calling copied West
Perhaps revealing part speech came described Talibans view future role Afghan women When power group sent religious police patrol streets giving lashes women among things showing ankles
We committed rights given women Islam Mr Stanekzai said Islam given women fundamental rights trade ownership inheritance education work choice partner security education good life
Considering groups history Afghan women immediately questioned statements sincerity
But Fawzia Koofi female member Afghan Parliament one two women attendance said happy heard Taliban promise women would stripped rights would allowed serve prime minister though president
However cautioned We gained much last 18 years whatever problems want go back Taliban period
Andrew Higgins reported Moscow Mujib Mashal Kabul Afghanistan Najim Rahim contributed reporting MazariSharif Afghanistan Fahim Abed Fatima Faizi Kabul Taimoor Shah Kandahar Afghanistan




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Christine Hauser
It like online matchmaking service Horse lovers want adopt wild mustang western United States browse dozens headshots
From dropdown menus choose gender color age 4yearold chestnut mare example 9yearold gray gelding Some horses training others might gentled experience handled
This Wild Horses Online part federal Bureau Land Managements online adoption service Starting month bureau trying make wild mustang adoptions attractive paying 1000 take animals gathered public land western United States part efforts manage population
The adoption program began March 12 intended encourage potential owners take leap adopting wild horses whose access pasture water challenged factors including rising population droughts said Deborah Collins bureaus outreach officer
Ms Collins said government hoped people would take fresh look owning wild horse say I got little help I go find trainer
The program first incentive type Bureau Land Management offered since Wild FreeRoaming Horses Burros Act 1971 detailed agencys duties legal custodian wild horses burros United States
Previously people adopted wild mustang paying 125 Now paid 500 front receive 500 balance prove owned animal responsibly year Ms Collins said
Carrie Jim Pacileo Powell Wyo drove six hours March 15 adoption event Rock Springs The couple already adopted two mustangs one completely trained partly trained wanted
I told husband I wanted try train completely wild Ms Pacileo said
They came home two mustangs 9monthold Remmi 11monthold Stormy
Being younger thought maybe would easier Ms Pacileo said
She said money receive adopting horses would invested equipment hay production 40 acres
I wanted like ultimate symbol America said
More 66000 wild horses 15000 burros roam 26 million acres 10 states bureaus latest data shows The ideal level populations combined 26690 according bureau
The challenge bureau balance population animals available resources public private lands Some found rambling along highways foraging backyards discovered open range emaciated dying thirst Ms Collins said
The main method population control simply move From July February helicopters chase wild horses corrals facilities made available adoption sold adopted
Last year 11000 horses burros removed public lands nearly decade bureau figures show As last month 50000 horses available adoption corrals offrange pastures longterm Ms Collins said
Some bureaus measures attracted controversy use helicopters chase animals removal horses open range primary method population control Some worried wild horses could end slaughterhouses abroad
The American Wild Horse Campaign advocacy group said statement criticizing bureauss new adoption program agency employ population control measures fertility methods The BLM adopt way situation faces stockpiling 50000 horses holding facilities said Suzanne Roy groups executive director
Ms Collins said bureau tried fertility measures including sending volunteers administer birth control vaccinations mares wild But effects vaccinations last year 18 months results adequately addressed overpopulation said
The bureaus push make adoptions enticing focused training The agency working nonprofit Mustang Heritage Foundation started Extreme Mustang Makeover national competition trainers 100 days turn wild mustang wellbehaved steed
Wild mustangs also trained federal prisons rehabilitation programs coordinated bureau
The 1000 adoption payout costs bureau half would keep animal year Ms Collins said For owners mustangs cost less keep breeds thoroughbreds quarter horses said Mary Santagata adopts buys mustangs All Kings Horses rescue organization Northford Conn
Adopted mustangs current vaccinations Ms Santagata said annual veterinary care could cost 300 problems About 50 every eight 10 weeks goes toward hooves professionally trimmed Many owners feed mustangs hay similar diet open range rather expensive grain hay said
They hardy Ms Santagata said They built survive
Other costs include adapting corrals sixfoothigh paneled fencing wild horses escape providing opensided sheds enter need shelter easily led
The expensive part owning wild horse Ms Santagata said paying experienced trainers At 41 around horses life said could handle basic gentling wild mustang When horses corrals uses soft opening approaching retreating get accustomed
You walk around see reacts said I mustangs would look months
She gradually introduces halters led around able accomplish three months said For advanced skills like riding sends mustangs professionals grown know
I look like I adopting living legend Ms Santagata said They mystical creature wild lucky ones find




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Casey
BOGOTÁ Colombia Jorge Ramos news anchor television network Univision said detained Venezuelan government confrontational interview President Nicolás Maduro Monday evening Miraflores Palace Caracas
He didnt like things asking lack democracy Venezuela torture political prisoners Mr Ramos recounted Univision broadcast said released government
Mr Ramos said detained two hours let go allowed return hotel He said government confiscated crews equipment including phones memory cards
We dont anything said They interviews
On Monday night Kimberly Breier assistant secretary state Western Hemisphere State Department said Mr Ramos detained called government release immediately
The world watching wrote Twitter
Venezuelas government dispute account Mr Ramos temporarily held appeared lay blame anchor
We dont lend cheap shows said Jorge Rodríguez government communications minister
He added Hundreds journalists come received decent treatment always give journalistic work
Mr Ramos Mexicoborn American journalist known confrontational questions particularly leaders attacked press In 2015 tangled Donald J Trump presidential candidate news conference Mr Trump eventually guards force room
Go back Univision Mr Trump said
Univision largest Spanishlanguage television network United States
Mr Maduro recently stuck friendly interviews state television outlets
But since current crisis faces major challenge Venezuelas opposition whose leader Juan Guaidó also claims presidency Mr Maduro conducted number interviews international media outlets including BBC Eurovision ABC also conducted interview Monday
In ABC interview Mr Maduro defended criticism blocking aid shipments opposition White House demanded let pass Venezuelas borders Colombia Brazil
Everything United States government done doomed failure Mr Maduro said Theyre trying fabricate crisis justify political escalation military intervention Venezuela bring war South America
Mr Ramos said showing images children eating dumpster Mr Maduro common sight Venezuela president presided shortages food medicine
He got interview Mr Ramos said Immediately afterward one ministers Jorge Rodríguez came say interview wasnt authorized
Then Mr Ramos said detained
Later Monday night Mr Ramos writes column syndicated New York Times Licensing Group told Reuters crew would deported Tuesday


video

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Best Late Night
By Giovanni Russonello
Welcome Best Late Night rundown previous nights highlights lets sleep lets us get paid watch comedy If youre interested hearing The Times regularly great TV sign Watching newsletter get recommendations straight inbox
Stephen Colbert admitted hes happy see President Trump Congress apparently nearing border security deal would help avert government shutdown But said wished could press reset political conversation
Were supposed care whether Trump Nancy lost Trump caved Nancys dancing end zone said But nothing nothing happened government 2019 affected anyone Wheres infrastructure bill Wheres immigration bill Wheres fix health care We celebrating supposed celebrating theyre close deal achieve absolute minimum government
Colbert pointed reports preparations possible border wall already damaged butterfly habitats Texas He argued Trump ought sympathy insects
After hes got lot common butterflies Theyre fragile creatures bright iridescent coloring paperthin skin Its Trump never left larval stage STEPHEN COLBERT
Colbert also tweaked Democrats showed clip Representative Nita Lowey insisting lawmakers agreed fund partial barrier wall
Oh wall barrier A clinching legal argument first made landmark case Potato v Potato STEPHEN COLBERT
Jimmy Kimmel isnt excited recent news sequel film Frozen come fall
Just Baby Shark songs finally starting get heads theres new batch Frozen songs way For dont kids Frozen streetlegal drug children thats 10 times addictive Paw Patrol gummy worms combined In one Disney finally answer question What made bunch money JIMMY KIMMEL
Trevor Noah excited Howard Schultzs middleoftheroad potential candidacy He criticized Schultz former chief executive Starbucks saying CNN town hall doesnt see race
It would like How going solve black unemployment And guy would like What mean black unemployment All I see staggering unemployment among people named Jamal Anyway February happy History Month TREVOR NOAH
Tomorrow Valentines Day St Valentine course patron saint seasonal marketing STEPHEN COLBERT
Tomorrow Auntie Annes offering special heartshaped pretzels Its great deal hopeless romantics taking dates La Guardia JIMMY FALLON
Samantha Bee went bat ambitious Green New Deal plan Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez unveiled month
On Conan Kay Jewelers Tinder Collection featured bejeweled inscriptions Please Dont Murder Me Whats Your Last Name
Bradley Cooper director star A Star Is Born The Late Show Thursday With Oscars 10 days away anticipation probably hang air
Aubrey Plaza hosting Film Independent Spirit Awards month Shes diehard fan independent cinema looking forward bringing back intimate vibe awards show televised
Plus Ideas What Watch Tonight
The 50 Best Movies Netflix Right Now
The 25 Best Films 21st Century
The Best Movies Amazon Prime Video Right Now
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Declan Walsh
CAIRO President Omar Hassan alBashir Sudan imposed yearlong state emergency dissolved federal state governments Friday attempt end months nationwide street protests shaken authority three decades rule
In televised address broadcast live presidential palace Khartoum Mr alBashir declared state emergency disbanded federal government replaced state governors military generals
Mr alBashir also said pausing ending effort amend Sudans constitution could run third term office current one ends 2020
Reuters citing presidential statement reported Friday night Mr alBashir appointed caretaker administration leaving current defense foreign justice ministers place
In speech acknowledged economic hardship triggered first protests December said protest movement hijacked elements agendas achieve zero sum scenarios
Mr alBashir wanted International Criminal Court charges war crimes ruled Sudan iron fist decades immediate implications state emergency unclear It seemed signal hardening attitude toward protests led young professionals angered economic decay corruption become hallmarks Mr alBashirs rule
The demonstrations first began Dec 19 town Atbara focused soaring bread prices They quickly grew movement calling ouster president near daily protests spreading cities across country
The protesters come across Sudanese society including sections shrinking upper middle class withered countrys precipitous economic slide Soaring fuel prices caused factories close youth employment stands 27 percent according World Bank estimates
Our country passing difficult complicated phase national history Mr alBashir said speech Friday
He blamed external factors collapse protesters say stems decades kleptocratic incompetent rule Their frequent chant marches riot police arrive tear gas sometimes bullets Just fall
Protest leaders say 1000 people arrested crackdown led feared National Intelligence Security Service Internet access restricted effort block social media posts used mostly young protesters organize demonstrations
The government said 31 people died protestrelated violence Human Rights Watch put toll 51 people killed since midDecember
On Friday Mr alBashir stumbled several times read speech In attempt mollify protesters offered prayers killed announced plans economic reform new government yet fully formed He invited opposition move forward engage dialogue regarding current issues country
In recent years Mr alBashir fired marginalized potential rivals power little long rule suggests new willingness rapprochement
Mr alBashir came power military coup 1989 since Sudan endured famines American missile strikes isolation civil war led independence South Sudan 2011 Two years International Criminal Court ordered Mr alBashir arrested charges played essential role atrocities including murder rape torture displacement civilians conflict Darfur region Sudan
In 2017 United States lifted sanctions Sudan relief failed stem steep economic decline Mr alBashir lobbied State Department remove Sudan list state sponsors terrorism factor countrys economic woes
Before televised address Sudans intelligence chief Salah Abdallah Gosh told reporters Mr alBashir would announce resignation head ruling National Congress Party
But Mr alBashir said nothing speech party activists fear state emergency could presage even harsher measures movement
In immediate aftermath speech however demonstrators appeared undeterred Videos posted social media suggested protests rule continued Khartoum



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ceylan Yeginsu
Britains chancellor Exchequer Philip Hammond delivered statement countrys economy Wednesday something fiscal nonevent specter Britains withdrawal European Union Brexit hanging every economic projection
Mr Hammonds main message could deliver funds public spending British Parliament reaches deal Brexit came day lawmakers rejected Prime Minister Theresa Mays plan large margin
With Mrs May sitting behind Mr Hammond conspicuously called lawmakers put aside differences seek compromise Brexit something neither prime minister Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn yet accepted
Higher unemployment lower wages higher prices shops That British people voted June 2016 said referring 2016 referendum leave European Union
Here five takeaways chancellors spring statement
The uncertainty surrounding Brexit slowdown global economy cut growth 2019 12 percent 16 percent projected last years autumn budget
The British economy set grow 14 percent 2020 16 percent following two years according official forecasts independent Office Budget Responsibility
One bright spot wage growth revised upward least 3 percent year work force expanding 600000 2023 Mr Hammond said
With public sector borrowing trending Mr Hammond pledged increase Brexit dividend 266 billion pounds 35 billion comes catch British lawmakers would vote pronto leave European Union deal
In statement Office Budget Responsibility attributed improved fiscal climate higher income tax receipts lower expected interest costs
Once Mr Hammond hedged good news familiar caveat Parliament first agree deal Brexit
A smooth Brexit see deal dividend economic boost free resources schools police social care areas suffered significantly decade budget cuts conservative governments austerity policy
Analysts quick point government making promises time promised spending increases failed materialize
The repeated promise austerity coming end ring hollow millions low wage disabled unemployed people see social security tax credits frozen another year April Dr MaryAnn Stephenson director Womens Budget Group said Wednesday
The government fund free sanitary products secondary schools colleges England response concerns girls missing school afford buy products Mr Hammond said
The announcement comes twoyear campaign started Amika George 19 read reports schoolgirls northern city Leeds using newspaper socks toilet paper could afford sanitary products would sometimes miss school avoid embarrassment
Its definitely really huge number Ms George said phone interview This isnt small minority people affecting Its definitely prevalent something government needs take action
Knife crime rose fourth straight year 2018 hotbutton issue days To help address additional 100 million pounds 130 million made available police forces across England Wales help tackle knife crime risen fourth consecutive year
Police funding England Wales fell 19 percent 201011 201819 National Audit Office says
The extra funding spent additional overtime targeted knife crime new violent crime reduction units Mr Hammond said
The announcement falls short 200 300 million pounds 260 million 390 million requested National Police Chiefs Council last week




Advertisement
Sophisticated surveillance domain world powers increasingly available private market Smaller countries seizing tools sometimes darker purposes
NSO private company based Herzliya Israel hired former government hackers ply trades foreign governmentsCreditCreditCorinna Kern The New York Times
Supported
By Mark Mazzetti Adam Goldman Ronen Bergman Nicole Perlroth
The man charge Saudi Arabias ruthless campaign stifle dissent went searching ways spy people saw threats kingdom He knew go secretive Israeli company offering technology developed former intelligence operatives
It late 2017 Saud alQahtani top adviser Saudi Arabias powerful crown prince tracking Saudi dissidents around world part extensive surveillance efforts ultimately led killing journalist Jamal Khashoggi In messages exchanged employees company NSO Group Mr alQahtani spoke grand plans use surveillance tools throughout Middle East Europe like Turkey Qatar France Britain
The Saudi governments reliance firm Israel adversary decades offers glimpse new age digital warfare governed rules growing economy valued 12 billion spies hire
Today even smallest countries buy digital espionage services enabling conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping influence campaigns preserve major powers like United States Russia Corporations want scrutinize competitors secrets wealthy individual beef rival also command intelligence operations price akin purchasing offtheshelf elements National Security Agency Mossad
For stories changing nature warfare sign weekly At War newsletter
NSO competitor Emirati firm DarkMatter exemplify proliferation privatized spying A monthslong examination The New York Times based interviews current former hackers governments private companies others well review documents uncovered secret skirmishes burgeoning world digital combat
The firms enabled governments hack criminal elements like terrorist groups drug cartels also cases act darker impulses targeting activists journalists Hackers trained United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople human rights workers net Cybermercenaries working DarkMatter turned prosaic household item baby monitor spy device
The FBI investigating current former American employees DarkMatter possible cybercrimes according four people familiar investigation The inquiry intensified former NSA hacker working company grew concerned activities contacted FBI Reuters reported
NSO DarkMatter also compete fiercely paying handsomely lure top hacking talent Israel United States countries sometimes pilfering recruits The Times found
The Middle East epicenter new era privatized spying Besides DarkMatter NSO Black Cube private company run former Mossad Israeli military intelligence operatives gained notoriety Harvey Weinstein disgraced Hollywood mogul hired dig dirt accusers PsyGroup Israeli company specializing social media manipulation worked Russian oligarchs 2016 pitched Trump campaign plan build online army bots avatars swing Republican delegate votes
Last year wealthy American businessman Elliott Broidy sued government Qatar New York firm run former CIA officer Global Risk Advisors said sophisticated breach company led thousands emails spilling public Mr Broidy said operation motivated hardnosed geopolitics At beginning Trump administration pushed White House adopt antiQatar policies time firm poised receive hundreds millions dollars contracts United Arab Emirates archrival Qatar
A judge dismissed Mr Broidys lawsuit suspicions grown Qatar hand operations including hacking leaking emails Yousef alOtaiba influential Emirati ambassador Washington
The rapid expansion global hightech battleground armies cybermercenaries clash prompted warnings dangerous chaotic future
Even smallest country low budget offensive capability initiate online attacks adversaries said Robert Johnston founder cybersecurity firm Adlumin key investigator Russias 2016 hacking Democratic National Committee Qatar UAE going war getting bloody
The barriers entry space getting lower lower
Before NSO helped Saudi government track adversaries outside kingdom helped Mexican government hunt drug kingpins earned hundreds millions dollars working dozens countries six continents company consisted two high school friends northern Israel one relatively mundane idea
Using technology developed graduates Intelligence Unit 8200 Israels equivalent NSA Shalev Hulio Omri Lavie started company 2008 allowed cellphone firms gain remote access customers devices perform maintenance
Word spread Western spy services whose operatives spotted opportunity At time American European officials warning Apple Facebook Google tech giants developing technologies allowed criminals terrorists communicate encrypted channels indecipherable intelligence law enforcement agencies They called phenomenon going dark
Mr Hulio Mr Lavie offered way circumvent problem hacking end points communications phones data decrypted
By 2011 NSO developed first prototype mobile surveillance tool company called Pegasus Like namesake Greek mythological winged horse NSOs tool could something seemingly impossible collect vast amounts previously inaccessible data smartphones air without leaving trace including phone calls texts emails contacts location data transmitted apps like Facebook WhatsApp Skype
Once companies invade phone Youre carrying around Avi Rosen Kaymera Technologies Israeli cyberdefense company said NSO competitors
The company soon first client Pegasus government Mexico engaged crackdown drug cartels By 2013 NSO installed Pegasus three Mexican agencies according emails obtained The Times The emails estimated altogether firm sold Mexican government 15 million worth hardware software Mexico paying firm 77 million track wide array targets every move swipe phone
NSO products important Mexicos war cartels according four people familiar Mexican government used Pegasus speaking condition anonymity discuss intelligence matters Mexican officials credited Pegasus instrumental helping track capture El Chapo famed drug kingpin convicted last month New York sentenced life maximumsecurity prison
Soon enough NSO selling governments throughout world company claiming clients every continent except Antarctica NSO products particularly Pegasus helped break terrorist cells aided investigations organized crime child abduction European intelligence law enforcement officials said interviews
NSOs first client Mexican government also using hacking tools darker purposes part broader government industry surveillance effort The government used NSO products track least two dozen journalists government critics international investigators looking unsolved disappearance 43 students even backers soda tax according Times investigations research Citizen Lab part University Toronto
Those targets subjected stream harassing text messages contained malware Some messages warned spouses affairs others relative passed away In one case government officials able infiltrate phone journalist targeted 16yearold sons
Though NSO says sells services criminal antiterrorism investigations none Mexicans known targeted suspected criminal terrorism investigations
NSO technology helped stop vicious crimes deadly terrorist attacks around world company said statement We tolerate misuse products regularly vet review contracts ensure used anything prevention investigation terrorism crime
The company established ethics committee decides whether sell spyware countries based human rights records reported global organizations like World Banks human capital index indicators NSO would sell Turkey example poor record human rights current former employees said
But World Bank index Turkey ranks higher Mexico Saudi Arabia NSO clients A spokesman Israels Ministry Defense needs authorize contract NSO wins foreign government declined answer questions company
A lawsuit alleged last year months death Saudi Arabia used NSO products spy Mr Khashoggi Washington Post columnist strangled dismembered October Saudi operatives inside kingdoms consulate Istanbul NSO denies accusation Several Mr Khashoggis closest contacts targets NSO hacking tools Citizen Lab reported Without access Mr Khashoggis devices researchers confirmed whether direct target NSO surveillance
Even cases blatant abuse NSO continued renew contracts government clients In 2013 instance NSO inked first deal United Arab Emirates Within year Emirati government caught installing NSO spyware mobile phone Ahmed Mansoor prominent human rights activist
After receiving onslaught text messages containing links Mr Mansoor frequent target Emirati surveillance grew suspicious passed texts security researchers determined links NSO lures exploited vulnerabilities Apple software take Mr Mansoors phone It researchers said sophisticated spyware ever uncovered mobile device
The discovery forced Apple release emergency patch But Mr Mansoor already fired job passport confiscated car stolen email hacked location tracked bank account emptied 140000 beaten strangers twice week
You start believe every move watched Your family starts panic said interview arrested 2017 I live
Even UAE caught spying Mr Mansoor leaked invoices showed NSO continued sell Emiratis millions dollars worth spyware services As Mr Mansoor sentenced 10 years prison damaging national unity held solitary confinement health deteriorating
A flurry news reports followed countries using NSO products spy citizens prompting company temporarily rebrand Q James Bonds gadget guru
Despite bad news coverage NSOs value continued skyrocket
Francisco Partners private equity firm purchased 70 percent stake NSO 130 million 2013 Last month NSOs cofounders raised enough money buy back majority stake NSO valuation 1 billion The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed deal making major investors including Oregon state employees pension fund Alaskas sovereign wealth fund part owners NSO according public records
The proliferation companies trying replicate NSOs success compete estimated 12 billion market socalled lawful intercept spyware set fierce competition hire American Israeli Russian veterans worlds sophisticated intelligence agencies companies poach talent one another
In late 2017 NSO executives grew concerned spate resignations Private detectives hired investigate soon found Mediterranean island Cyprus tailing group former NSO employees veterans Israels Intelligence Unit 8200 going back forth work research facility
The building owned company affiliated DarkMatter Emirati firm quietly hired Israelis develop technologies UAE conduct cyberoperations perceived enemies home abroad
DarkMatter also offices inside gleaming tower highway connecting Abu Dhabi Dubai building houses UAEs Signals Intelligence Agency Emirates version NSA
This accident DarkMatter effectively arm state worked directly Emirati intelligence operatives numerous missions hacking government ministries Turkey Qatar Iran spying dissidents inside Emirates
DarkMatter origins another company American firm called CyberPoint years ago contracts UAE help protect Emirates computer attacks CyberPoint obtained license American government work Emiratis necessary step intended regulate export military intelligence services Many companys employees worked highly classified projects NSA American intelligence agencies
But Emiratis outsize ambitions repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees exceed boundaries companys American license CyberPoint rebuffed requests Emirati intelligence operatives try crack encryption codes hack websites housed American servers operations would run afoul American law
So 2015 Emiratis founded DarkMatter forming company bound United States law lured least halfdozen American employees CyberPoint join Marc Baier former official NSA unit carries advanced offensive cyberoperations became one firms top executives
DarkMatter employed several former NSA CIA officers according roster employees obtained The Times making salaries hundreds thousands dollars year
The assumption used left NSA youd never kind offensive work Now clearly market said Mr Johnston security expert He worked militarys Cyber Command works closely NSA serving Marines
The NSA consider responsibility ensure hacking techniques taught employees used United States said
The company respond request comment spokesman Emirati government Asked whether ministry given license former Israeli intelligence operatives working DarkMatter spokesman Israeli Ministry Defense declined comment A lawyer Mr Baier also declined comment
Current former employees spy agency lifelong obligation protect United States secrets said Greg Julian spokesman NSA They also required report employment representation foreign governments two years leave agency said
Besides breaches foreign government ministries DarkMatter also broke Gmail Yahoo Hotmail accounts according former employees DarkMatter operatives posed family friends people targeted lure opening emails contained malware
Former employees said DarkMatter targeted Mr Mansoor hacking childs baby monitor eavesdrop family In another operation companys operatives pursued Rori Donaghy British activist critical Emirati government human rights record also target NSO spyware DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab Canadian research organization former employee said
DarkMatter told employees spying American citizens would limits proved empty pledge
In one operation previously reported DarkMatter subsidiary began expansive effort intercept cellular communications Qatar occasionally catching communications Americans surveillance net late 2015 One American working project said raised concerns superiors including former CIA officer charge effort The American along another pulled project asked sign nondisclosure agreement
In repeated instances DarkMatter collected information Americans second former employee said Most cases involved Americans worked foreign organizations including human rights groups DarkMatter targeted critical Emirati government former employee said
DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information applications résumés belonging Americans applied work organizations One former employee said collection accidental records expunged companys databases
In 2017 former NSA hacker began providing FBI agents information companys activities according Reuters report Foreign Policy first reported FBI investigation
The informant Lori Stroud said become concerned companys surveillance Americans She later left firm along several Americans could sure DarkMatter deliberately targeting citizens Soon FBI agents began stopping American employees airports entered United States questioned DarkMatters operations according former company employees
The Justice Departments case run prosecutors Washington focuses internet fraud possibly illegal transfer spying technology foreign country
But prosecutors face headwinds including diplomatic concerns jeopardizing United States relationship UAE influential country developed close ties Trump administration worries pursuing case could expose embarrassing details extent cooperation DarkMatter American intelligence agencies
And reality American laws governing new age digital warfare murky outdated illequipped address rapid technological advances The rules governing American intelligence military personnel provide foreign governments meant keep leash 20thcentury warfare selling missiles planes overseas training foreign forces Army tactics
But address hacking skills honed front laptop worlds advanced intelligence agencies sold highest bidder
The worst part weapons easier get said Brian Bartholomew principal security researcher Kaspersky Lab digital security company
Youve got lot people entering arena new dont play rules said Its like putting militarygrade weapon hands someone street
An earlier version article misattributed source valuation market socalled lawful intercept spyware The 12 billion market estimate cited Moodys originated company NSO Moodys
Scott Shane contributed reporting




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ashley Powers
One day 2015 Barbara Lavenders husband returned UFO conference handed business card It bore red theatercurtain background vintage microphone goldandwhite lettering read Sean David Morton Radio Host Public Speaker Author Director Screen Writer Actor The polymathic Mr Morton Jeff Lavender told wife UFO royalty
Mr Morton spent years whisking ETobsessed tourists Area 51 99 pop leveraged following stints weehours conspiracy show Coast Coast AM one point nations No 3 talkradio program He dabbled fringe arts remote viewing psychic predictions earthquakes elections stock market But time Mr Lavender saw talk Southern California Mr Morton shifted something truly fantastical instant debt relief
Hed peddling workshop called The Sovereign Factor The Revolution Starts With You nod known sovereign citizens movement A loose network perhaps tens thousands farright antigovernment extremists sovereigns share certain conspiratorial beliefs sometimes desire profit government whose legitimacy deny
Do realize read Mr Mortons workshop description ALL considered Incompetent Wards State Residents Chattel Property US Federal government declare Emancipation Learn secrets get government back life One secrets called bond process By submitting right set papers Mr Morton said could wipe mortgage tax bills student loans
Mr Mortons message appeal beyond tinfoilhat crowd In America Great Recession plenty people upsidedown mortgages student debt inclined believe anyone offering help Ms Lavender listening husband recap workshop intrigued Years earlier shed borrowed 48000 help son attend college She husband worked mortgage industry Southern California decades educational debt unfamiliar terrain I never gone college told recently I took loan I shouldnt Ms Lavender lost job deferred payments interest kept piling By time held Mr Mortons business card hands owed 70000
She realized UFO gathering unusual venue debtrelief advice Her husbands annual gettogethers XFiles crowd hobby goodnatured punch line family But size intractability loan balance weighed also trusted husband thought Mr Mortons bond process worth checking She told I think probably enticed might little tiny kick pants government
As Lavenders came discover sovereign fraudsters snakeoil salesmen time Peddling bouquet grifts varied tax fraud real estate scams prey suspicion institutions financial illiteracy greed despair You dont even buy sovereign dogma get swindled You need Ms Lavender debt From 1990 2013 farright extremists carried 600 financial schemes resulted criminal charges according researchers run US Extremist Financial Crime Database affiliated National Consortium Study Terrorism Responses Terrorism clearinghouse kind
That adds conservatively public losses 1 billion The majority perpetrators either sovereigns ideological cousins tax defiers Fraud crossburning white supremacists expression belief
Sovereigns sometimes call freemen state citizens foundational document broadly subscribe alternate version American history The tale vary sovereign sovereign goes roughly like At point corporation secretly usurped United States government went bankrupt sought aid international bankers As collateral corporation offered financiers us As sovereigns tell birth certificate Social Security card benign documents contracts enslave
There believe pathway freedom Renounce contracts otherwise assert sovereignty Mr Morton said told Social Security Administration I dont want number Then one taxman police tell Not sovereigns con men belief system lends deceit You might declare diplomat nonexistent country Mr Morton represented Republic New Lemuria Dominion Melchizedek Or start fake Native American tribe Or blow court case American flag courtroom gold fringe Some sovereigns even lashed violently law enforcement officers theyre considered domestic terrorism threat
Many sovereign myths hark back creation 1913 Federal Reserve It weird complicated instrument controlling monetary system People saw sinister author J M Berger told In recent paper Mr Berger traced circulation ideas part company named Omni Publications something like Infowars middle 20th century One Omni title The Federal Reserve Conspiracy claimed enemy aliens infiltrated banking system biographies could found Whos Who American Jewry Sovereign lore often rooted antiSemitism By 1970s intellectual father sovereign citizen movement William Potter Gale helped spread type falsehood larger audience
The founder antigovernment group Posse Comitatus Mr Gale aligned emerging movement tax protesters argued instance paying taxes form involuntary servitude In turn introduced warped version America patriots establish legal system hang defy Mr Gales specific gift wrapping nonsense enough legalese sounded real If movement offers essentially lot magic words say get trouble thats going really appeal people desperate angry Mr Berger said Mr Gales outreach success Over time line thousands tax protesters Posse members blurred
Take redemption theory popularized part Gale associate Remember corporationslashfakegovernment used us collateral According sovereign lore means government set secret accounts names Some believe contain oddly specific amount 630000 To clear pure fantasy according Internal Revenue Service
One way sovereigns try make imaginary money real abusing legitimate IRS forms Lawabiding taxpayers use Form 1099OID example report original issue discount income But sovereigns write fake OID income fake withholding order claim illegitimate refunds If file return risk least large fine Yet 2012 2014 according Treasury Inspector General Tax Administration IRS received close 7000 sham OID filings
Chronically underfunded understaffed IRS investigators refer two dozen sovereignscam cases average prosecution year The agency sometimes misses returns raise suspicion For example 2016 IRS discovered sizable redemption scheme processing 207 bogus returns disbursing 43 million Thats another reason strange theories persist begun leach sovereign network general population Sometimes improbably work
Mr Morton born 1958 comfortable childhood Northern California tutorial make sales pitch His mother Maureen Kennedy Salaman San Francisco magazine described millionaire evangelical alternativemedicine fanatic promoted questionable cancer treatments
She also member John Birch Society farright group known paranoid anticommunism stockpiled beans grains ammunition case Russian invasion In 1984 chosen vicepresidential nominee Populist Party favorite white supremacists Its presidential candidate following cycle former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke In acceptance speech warned crowd Were evil powerful conspiracy world ever known
When Mr Morton reached adulthood sold unorthodox beliefs behind suburbandad veneer flop dark hair round cleanshaven face buttondownandkhakis wardrobe He charismatic also childlike friends said ego easily bruised He branded investigative reporter within UFO world 1990s Mr Morton appeared The Montel Williams Show made outrageous claims 100 alien species visited Earth certainty Nobel laureate I got close enough one things floating around desert actually get face burned said
Even UFO enthusiasts considered kook Mr Mortons fans didnt care The truth Sean David Morton Branding prophet plumbed newage convention circuit alongside specialists animal telepathy chakras hauntings angelic gemstone messages afterlife Near end millennium convention Las Vegas blueeyed reddishhaired woman approached Back Utah Melissa Thomson grown Mormon home married 22 worked banking spare time doted pedigreed cats even serving treasurer local Cat Fanciers group The Coast Coast program escape spent hours fangirling Mr Morton frequent guest
At Las Vegas convention Ms Thomson apparently one goal meet idol It love first sight Mr Morton said She soon left husband joined Mr Morton Southern California Her oldest brother Robert told The found warned Melissa decent person But promised movie roles theyll inherit Mommys home Atherton condo Tahoe All could see dollars When got married family refused attend
Through lawyer Ms Morton declined comment Mr Morton respond multiple requests comment although said YouTube last fall The New York Times conducting massive smear campaign Unless otherwise noted quotes article court records
The Mortons lived Hermosa Beach surf spot 20 miles downtown Los Angeles Next minipalaces oatmealcolored apartment building resembled servants quarters short stroll Pacific Ocean Mr Morton welcomed new wifes bushytailed Norwegian forest cats new litter arrived dozen scampered around apartment turn oversaw administrative side Sean David Morton He shilled conspiracy fiction The Dark Prophet Veil AntiChrist CDs Everything You Wanted Know About Future Vol 2 65 newsletter thousands subscribers TOMORROWS HEADLINES TODAY
Either wasnt particularly lucrative wasnt lucrative enough replicate Mr Mortons childhood wealth From outside hard tell He always asking try help something could raise money said Susan Shumsky fellow fixture newage circuit Like Lets trip Peru I money Lets teleseminar I make money Ms Mortons pedigreed kittens sold hundreds dollars apparently kept solvent At various points also dogwalked worked Disneyland Their friend Will Chappell said It leading charge leading family She necessary accomplish goals
Early relationship website called UFO Watchdog Exposing Parasites Delusional Personalities Morons Frauds Currently Clouding UFO Issue dismantled much Mr Mortons official biography Mr Morton sued case dismissed But email included case file Ms Morton waved findings I would concerned Sean DIDNT critics Some greatest people history people attacking every step It means Sean something right trying make difference world
By 2006 couple expecting windfall Ms Salaman poor health died Mr Morton assumed hed inherit mothers fortune But relationship already frosty iced final weeks Ms Salaman didnt even want son wife visit She cut even kept 100000 trust Great Dane Duke
They went berserk Ms Mortons brother recalled Its scam scam scam
While sovereign citizen movement inherently organized members firmament become known gurus vectors spreading ideology Mr Morton often lectured Living Temple new age shop south Hermosa Beach The owner favored black Tshirt five flying saucers admonition KEEP LOOKING UP yoga music ommed clutter apothecary bottles bags herbal something miraclecleanse guidebooks cropcircle DVDs
One day likely 2008 man named Brandon Adams started showing Like Mr Morton budding sovereign amplifier much younger untucked buttondowns looked like attempt playing dressup His family ran local taxprep business His whole thing banks Mr Morton said later What considered great criminal conspiracy Internal Revenue Service banking cartels Mr Morton quickly got speaking slot
Some Mr Adamss talks recorded Pacing front dozen people scribbling phrases stick figures whiteboard wove dark tale The secret bankruptcy The peopleascollateral Then twist The banks skimming money fractionalizing every transaction make He told group could reclaim funds via Form 1099OID
From folding chair Mr Morton looking grayer rounder Montel Williams days asked Mr Adams anyone really gotten big refund way Yes Mr Adams said The funny thing watch quiet people start get theyre sure process start getting returns Laughter Theyve got mentality Im going say I got two hundred fifty grand
The audience lapped This America financial crisis The banks bailed homeowners era Tea Party rallies Occupy Wall Street encampments imminent It wasnt much leap suspect Washington cahoots likes JP Morgan Mr Adamss Living Temple talks drew large enough crowds moved bigger venue sold private coaching 200 hour It became movement really Mr Morton said Mr Adams respond multiple requests comment
In spring 2009 Mr Adamss tutelage Mortons tried OID scheme Mr Morton filed four years returns 2005 2008 claimed nearly 4 million refunds His wife filed 2007 return claimed 12000 I never ever ever thought I breaking law Mr Morton later said I thought law His faith bolstered April got refund one returns direct deposit Washington Mutual account 48032255
In 2010 Securities Exchange Commission went Mortons different scheme one connection sovereign ideology Mr Morton used unconventional celebrity years earlier begin investment club would channel psychic powers predicting foreign currency markets Its risky type trading Mr Morton bragged forecasts accurate even Henry Paulson Treasury secretary relied
After hearing Mr Morton promote fund Coast Coast man Washington State invested 217000 An elderly New York woman parted 20000 Hes promising stars recalled Tim Saunders Alaska electrician poured life savings 135000 Yeah greed came I felt I needed quickly In 100 people invested 6 million Mr Morton sank half foreigncurrency trading nearly lost At least 240000 funneled nonprofit Mortons set authorities dont know rest In 2013 SEC 115 million judgment Ms Morton relief defendant meaning accused profiting scheme
The Mortons filed bankruptcy repeatedly misled government instance claimed bank accounts A court eventually denied discharge meaning couldnt get rid debt They also tossed beachadjacent apartment Bottom line Ms Morton told bankruptcy trustee one day I want able get decent job nice place live pay taxes life back
It around time Mortons turned hawking debterasing sovereign scheme known bond process Over two years helped people around country send nearly two dozen fake bonds IRS Quicken Loans PennyMac Bank America Chase Bank treasurers office Contra Costa County California Early 2015 Barbara Lavender woman whose husband met Mr Morton UFO conference gave call
Ms Lavender 61 frontdesk clerk adult school When I met last year Hemet Calif nearly 90 parched miles east Los Angeles ranchstyle home trimmed red Christmas lights We chatted kitchen table 14yearold dog Remy curled feet She explained spoke Mr Morton phone avoided talking sovereign ideology Instead said could purchase portion bond held almost magically make educational loan disappear
To wipe 70000 balance suggested Ms Lavender send 2500 less 4 percent owed She husband believed Mr Morton discovered sort workaround rich people find You know testified later You hear time wealthy tax loopholes kind thing
The bond looked authentically bureaucratic formal scalloped border It really certificate paper Office Depot The accompanying paperwork said student loan company entitled paid back fund reality United States taps help stabilize foreign currencies Mr Morton said warned Ms Lavender Look I dont know going work Im lawyer He added Its going depend whether accept
A month Mortons mailed bond package Ms Lavender checked educational loan balance saw hadnt budged wrote Ms Morton email She didnt get response Ms Lavender sent followup followup This beginning feel increasingly like scam wrote October bilked hardearned money spare
Ms Morton finally replied said shed recovering knee surgery Ms Lavender sent almost apologetic response Her attention elsewhere husband died suddenly brain mass Once hear Sean let know thinks next wrote With husband gone debt even greater burden main breadwinner
Nothing came exchange That winter two men jackets showed Ms Lavenders home questioned Mortons bond process outcome Afterward Ms Lavender took one business cards nephew works local sheriffs office Yes reassured They really IRS
On Jan 31 2016 nearly 200foottall whiteandblue cruise ship called Ruby Princess docked Port Los Angeles About 100 guests board paid 3000 marketed ConspiraSea Cruise weeklong jaunt Mexican waters American paranoia Vaccinations Do You Really Know Whats Coming Through That Needle Conspiracy Steal Your Body Soul As Mortons prepared disembark arrested federal agents
After years digging IRS investigators Mortons faced suite charges related tax filings fake bonds Once Ruby Princess Mr Morton led workshop called From Fascism Freedom separated patted asked medications took Mr Morton said ask Melissa An agent Cyanide said seething On way jail added Do favor tell Sean Thank Ill see next life
Their trial began Tax Day 2017 The prosecution told simple story greed I submit IRS slot machine one prosecutor Valerie Makarewicz said Keep hitting spin Keep playing hit jackpot The day Mortons got 48032255 refund said went bank drained nearly account Once IRS realized mistake tried recoup money Mortons filed two rounds bogus returns set fake bonds
Ms Mortons lawyer presented goodfaith defense She thrall sovereign gurus said people kind strutted back forth stage answer everything He showed jury 37 pages perfectcursive notes Ms Morton took Brandon Adams lecture In courtroom obviously nonsense But time people believed Melissa Morton believed
Mr Morton represented Im rapist thug war criminal said opening statement I didnt run Nazi concentration camp murder millions children
Serving lawyer also meant crossexamined witnesses Are familiar bankruptcy United States 1933 asked governments fraud expert It reference sovereign conspiracy theory
No witness said Im
During closing argument trials fourth day Mr Morton told jury Norwegian forest cats Earlier week said wife tried save premature kitten They stayed late swaddled cloth fed milk eye dropper The kitten died anyway Ask implored jurors Do send nice people care kittens raise cats jail forever The panel deliberated two hours When returned Ms Morton greeted hopeful smile The verdict guilty counts She fainted
Around time prominent sovereigns facing reckoning A court permanently barred Mr Adams preparing tax returns promoting OID scheme ended prison peddling fake money orders Another guru ConspiraSea Cruise named Winston Shrout workshop Conspiracy Court System awaiting trial Oregon
Mr Mortons sentencing set June But 11 hearing started didnt show
Agents spotted afternoon outside Dominos Hermosa Beach gray hood sunglasses shrouding much face He hopped white Ford Escape headed south The next morning tweeted plea donations Melissa cats need help relocating
Two months passed Mr Morton resurfaced via video friends online talk show Project Camelot Getting Truth Out One Whistleblower Time His hair mussed hed startled awake wore headset black Vneck darkrimmed glasses took
His version hello ripping judge prosecutors biggest gang criminals youre ever going see Soon turned attention impending solar eclipse This one biggest turning points American history said The video clocked 40000 views It vintage Sean David Morton say impossible tell anything believed
I asked Will Chappell known Mortons decade whether actual sovereign dogmatists He said She definitely believed story Sean telling I believe Sean believed story telling A little bit I believed And convictions Melissa course knowing knew would gone long time ago I think Sean would still done He still thinks missed step
The solar eclipse took place August week Mr Mortons onthelam interview Though Ms Morton promised court would contact fugitive husband couple rendezvoused hotel outside Palm Springs That morning moon briefly blotted sun Mr Morton lounging poolside swim trunks purple mountains arrayed eclipse glasses side An IRS agent walked It
At sentencing Ms Morton distanced I living embodiment love blind wrote judge If I ever questioned teachings processes others I told I question others far smarter I There thousands attendees workshops seminars It convincing wellorganized believable How could thousands people wrong She sentenced two years prison filed appeal Behind bars passed time taking classes résuméwriting watercolorpainting embroidery watching Food Network recently transferred halfway house Emails posted Project Camelot site suggest husband still touch
Mr Morton sentenced six years prison Hes representing appeal court papers argued hed improperly profiled terrorist sovereign citizen On Project Camelot hes unrepentant even sharing pardon request said sent President Trump
Its work RADIO TV INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM DEEP STATE forces within DOJ put wife I prison YEARS wrote Of course suggestion correct injustice donate PayPal account
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raphael Minder
MADRID The simmering conflict Catalan independence roared back center Spanish attention Tuesday 12 people went trial roles botched secession attempt 2017 Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez scrambled keep issue toppling government
The eagerly anticipated trial Spanish Supreme Court Madrid drawn enormous attention broadcast live national television could soon overshadowed political crisis unfolding blocks away Parliament
On Wednesday Mr Sánchezs minority Socialist government faces crucial parliamentary vote national budget If majority lawmakers reject including Catalan lawmakers far backed prime minister almost certainly forced call elections
With Spains government hanging balance Supreme Court intense pressure demonstrate remain impartial politics case ignited passions recriminations The Catalan separatist leaders indicted charges include rebellion holding independence referendum declaring independence October 2017 moves Spanish courts ruled unconstitutional
The secessionist conflict split Catalan society also helped reshape Spains politics Mr Sánchez came office unexpectedly June winning vote noconfidence previous conservative government backing Basque Catalan nationalist lawmakers
To stay office needs maintain support separatist parties governed Catalonia wealthy northeastern region Spain since 2015 But Quim Torra leader regional government insisted party would back national budget unless Mr Sánchez agreed consider another independence referendum prime minister refused
On Tuesday María Jesús Montero Spains budget minister told lawmakers trial conflict Catalonia polarized debate budget insisted government cede blackmail separatist lawmakers
We always betting political dialogue within constitutional framework make clear framework nothing outside constitutional order said
Mr Sánchezs attempt renew political dialogue separatists recently labeled treason leader Spains conservative party Pablo Casado
Almost every aspect criminal case subject intense political feuding location trial Madrid rather Barcelona decision Spains judiciary deny bail defendants keep prison since late 2017
The defendants supporters see conditions reinforcing independence movements complaints oppressive central government Opponents secessionism hand hope prison sentences Catalan leaders deter illegal attempts break Spain
Within main chamber frescoed Supreme Court building built 18th century panel seven justices 12 defendants listened opening arguments Tuesday Oriol Junqueras former deputy leader Catalonia occupied frontbench
Andreu Van den Eynde lawyer Mr Junqueras opened proceedings cast case matter free expression right protest right vote
We make political defense defend human values rights Mr Van den Eynde said The defendants argued already faced legal proceeding every constitutional right restricted
A handful indicted politicians missing trial however including Carles Puigdemont former leader Catalonia fled Brussels successfully resisted Spains attempts extradite
Outside Supreme Court building television crews heavy police surveillance jostled space 600 journalists accredited cover trial
In surrounding streets protesters carried Spanish flags denounced Mr Sánchez handling Catalan conflict called ouster small echo antigovernment demonstration drew tens thousands people Sunday
I rely judges politicians havent done put end attempt destroy Spain said Santiago Pulido house painter held sign drawing two defendants devils horns
Some defendants face 25 years prison found guilty sentences much heavier Mr Pulido said They responsible dividing Spanish people making people fight within country I think serious crime
The trial expected last least three months But budgetary defeat Wednesday could force Mr Sánchez call elections summer means could take place verdicts made public
Opposition politicians want Mr Sánchez hold general election May 26 Spain already hold municipal regional elections well votes European Parliament
Speaking outside courtroom Mr Van den Eynde defense lawyer said trial views already politicized could influenced snap election
Were trying stay focused trial said know politics change everything change



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Paul Mozur Austin Ramzy
HONG KONG The Chinese electronics giant Huawei sued United States government Wednesday arguing unfairly incorrectly banned security threat
The lawsuit force government make case company public could also leave Huawei vulnerable deeper scrutiny business practices relationship Chinese government
The United States argued Huawei poses risk equipment could used Chinese authorities spy communications disrupt telecommunications networks That position led major wireless carriers United States avoid Huaweis equipment
Huawei denies allegations says lawsuit meant prove engage practices The companys plans file lawsuit first reported Monday The New York Times
The US Congress repeatedly failed produce evidence support restrictions Huawei products Guo Ping Huaweis rotating chairman said statement announcing filing lawsuit We compelled take legal action proper last resort
The lawsuit filed United States District Court Plano Tex Huawei American headquarters argues part 2019 National Defense Authorization Act unconstitutional singles Huawei The act bans government agencies contracting Huawei companies use companys equipment
Huawei Chinas biggest maker telecommunications equipment pressure months United States authorities Now striking back The suit part markedly aggressive legal public relations offensive Huawei recently mounted push back spying accusations
During news briefing broadcast official Huawei feed Twitter Mr Guo pulled punches
The US government long branded Huawei threat hacked service stolen emails source code said referring National Security Agency documents provided former contractor Edward J Snowden showed agency pried way Huaweis systems
Still US government sparing effort smear company mislead public Huawei added The briefing streamed Twitter American internet platform blocked China reached two million people
In December Meng Wanzhou daughter Huaweis founder chief financial officer company detained Canada behest United States seeking extradite
Her father Ren Zhengfei companys founder since rejected claims daughter said would wait see President Trump would intervene case Ms Meng court week Vancouver British Columbia part extradition hearing
In meantime Huawei battled many customers nations said would pull back buying products China also retaliated Canada detaining several Canadian citizens This week Canadian officials also complained China begun suspend import canola country
Lu Kang spokesman Chinas Ministry Foreign Affairs said Thursday Chinese decision based discovery pests Canadian canola
China long history interrupting trade countries middle diplomatic spats In September 2010 China halted export rare earth metals Japan two months dispute sovereignty cluster tiny islands Japan Taiwan Weeks later China suspended trade talks Norway halted import Norwegian salmon Nobel Peace Prize awarded Chinese dissident Norwegian committee
Huaweis lawsuit argues singling company Congress violated constitutional principles separation powers also bill attainder clause prohibits legislation singles person entity punishment without trial
The actual intended effect prohibitions bar Huawei significant segments US market telecommunications equipment services thereby inflicting immediate ongoing economic competitive reputational harms Huawei companys lawyers wrote suit
They added prohibitions carried without fair hearing opportunity rebut allegations without opportunity escape
The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab filed ultimately lost similar legal challenge two years ago After Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies ban Kaspersky products systems Congress codified directive law
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits arguing singled punishment without trial A judge ultimately dismissed lawsuits pointing came legitimate desire protect American networks
The Justice Department filed criminal charges Huawei January cases focus companys connections evading American sanctions Iran theft intellectual property Neither relates core question faced governments around world whether using Huaweis equipment new 5G networks causes security concerns
The new lawsuit seeks focus question push United States government make case While Huawei unlikely reverse American opposition company may hope win government officials countries including Europe probably following American lawsuit closely
Debate security Huaweis systems come critical moment countries around world preparing spend hundreds billions dollars expanding cellular networks next generation 5G technology
The new networks faster speeds also used connect bewildering number new sensors datacollection systems alongside smartphones That would make vulnerabilities networks potentially serious cellular networks past
Mr Lu Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman expressed support Huaweis legal action
We believe perfectly justified fully understandable companies safeguard legitimate rights interests legal means said
Many Chinese expressed support social media Huaweis legal stand United States Some others noted sarcasm difficulties similar legal recourse companies individuals within Chinas system
So sue government wrote one user Weibo Chinese social media service Interesting All sudden Im thinking actually I dont dare think
Keith Bradsher contributed reporting Shanghai Zoe Mou contributed research Beijing Qiqing Lin Shanghai



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Associated Press
MOGADISHU Somalia Gunmen Islamist militant group stormed government building Somalias capital Mogadishu suicide car bombing Saturday killing least five people including countrys deputy labor minister police said
Somali security forces fought hourslong gun battle least five assailants retake control building houses ministries labor works police officer Capt Mohamed Hussein said
The Reuters news agency citing police sources put death toll end battle 15
Saqar Ibrahim Abdalla Somalias deputy minister labor social affairs killed groundfloor office shortly gunmen stormed building Captain Hussein said
Saturday working day Somalia dozens people believed building time attack
The Shabab claimed responsibility attack building far headquarters Somali intelligence agency As attack unfolded gunfire could heard building White smoke billowed scene witnesses said
A similar attack targeting busy area Mogadishu February killed least 24 people That attack also began pair car bombs exploding popular area Mogadishu Somalis relaxing restaurants
The Shabab links Al Qaeda frequently carry suicide bombings targeting public places hotels government offices They Africas active Islamist militant group fighting years take power create Islamic state Somalia
The group continues mount lethal attacks despite pushed Mogadishu part African Union peacekeepers It mostly operates rural areas countrys south
The group carried many deadly attacks neighboring Kenya retaliation Kenyas deployment 2011 peacekeepers Somalia
The United States military carried number deadly airstrikes recent months Shabab


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
France Dispatch
By Adam Nossiter
BAYONNE France The government Paris disapproves But local mayor doesnt care He says continue sheltering Africans crossing Spanish border France
For JeanRené Etchegaray mayor Bayonne quiet refined city French Basque Country 22 miles border matter necessity humanitarian obligation
Since Italy closed borders migrants France tried close border migrants coming Italy Spain become prime gateway Europe migrants Africa 57000 arriving last year
Many crossing France transiting Bayonne place everything reasonable Stendhal wrote mid19th century
But Mr Etchegaray sees reasonable stance put war government President Emmanuel Macron even mayor become case study frontline management Europes migration crisis contradictions
The mayor doesnt necessarily want young men predominantly Frenchspeaking West African countries like Guinea Mali Ivory Coast hanging around forever He also doesnt want camping streets tall old halftimbered Basque houses nestled along slowmoving rivers
But wants migrants exist city condition dignity put I dont think I less said
So Mr Etchegaray took young men streets requisitioned old military barracks near train station put camp beds brought hot meals keeps place heated
The young men greet warmly shows several times day
Good man said one temporary guests Abdul Sylla 29yearold Guinea harbors vague hopes studying Close people
Official France keeps wagging finger citys mayor
It absolutely question state would give slightest aid mayors shelter Gilbert Payet recently Mr Macrons regional representative Interior Ministry testily told local reporters last month
The mayor unfazed
I saw frontiers closing far Im concerned fundamental rights cant trampled Mr Etchegaray said evoking Bayonnes heritage refuge Jews fleeing Spanish Inquisition birthplace great Jewish jurist René Cassin helped draft Universal Declaration Human Rights
The French states attitude toward mayor illustrates Mr Macrons ambiguities subject migration
germany
200 miles
Paris
switz
France
Atlantic
Ocean
italy
Mediterranean Sea
spain
30 miles
Bayonne
Bay Biscay
france
Irun
basque country
spain
By The New York Times
On one hand exalted Frances humanitarian traditions asked police treat migrants fairness
On government refused admission migrant ships put migrant rights advocates trial boasted many foreigners expelled turned back frontiers
The Italians angrily accused French hypocrisy Mr Etchegaray used word
The prefect said No recalled Maïté Etcheverry young volunteer runs shelter Bayonne
But mayor merely carried distributing blankets inquiring migrants wellbeing paying center budget local agglomeration towns runs
They said Youre going create pull factor even migrants Mr Etchegaray said laugh interview office past week
They said Youre going create another Calais said referring squalid encampments northern France since demolished thousands migrants waited mud cold misery hoping get England
So far hasnt turned way
I dont feel Im anything contrary law Mr Etchegaray said mildly
Look Im kind radical crazy person continued noting migrants stay days move
He even moved bus stop lowcost travel services front shelter make easier migrants leave And went war bus company drivers demanding illegally Africans produce identity papers
We squatters France supported City Hall Ms Etcheverry said grinning
That mayor hes deep prefect visibly interior minister said Ms Etcheverry law student Its really kind extraordinary
A selfdescribed radical proBasque independence leftist found political opposition 66yearold centerright mayor Not time
The migrants come go center day often arriving inconspicuous cars traffickers The local police say seedy district around train station nearby Spanish border city Irún become hive trafficking
One recent day group six young African men backpacks hurried single file across plaza Irún flight stairs
They bundled waiting car quickly drove Watching plaza several spotters talking furtively phones All happened right noses group Spanish police officers 20 yards away stir
French Spanish officers wait opposite sides bridge crossing river separates Spain France corner The border open unless migrant case might get stopped checked sent back
If migrants make shelter Bayonne however temporary refuge
The local police enter courtyard converted shelter long low hall staffed volunteers stocked donations food clothing The young men staying play scrabble lie quietly camp beds grateful worst seems behind
I never want see sea said Ibrahima Doumbia young Guinean crossed Mediterranean boat I fright life
With arrival cold weather fall knew growing migrant population Bayonne could longer stay one citys main squares people camping
It cold raining Mr Etchegaray said We couldnt leave anymore They cold sick hungry
The mayor formed plans initiative quickly He came directly square Ms Etcheverry recalled adding remembered saying Ill back halfhour
When returned led volunteers migrants underground parking lot municipal police temporary solution something better could found
He accompanied showed toilets Ms Etcheverry recounted He saw quiet young people helping young people But never imagined would end like center financed municipality
It mayors duty Mr Etchegaray said
The state doesnt want know added But Ive got know And emergency



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Bits
By Jamie Condliffe
Hi Im Jamie Condliffe Greetings London Heres look weeks tech news
There little fashionable 2019 desire curb Big Techs power But knowing far regulators go putting limits Silicon Valleys largest companies isnt straightforward
At one extreme calls break Big Tech Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines week called Ms Warren Massachusetts Democrat argued companies shouldnt offer products platforms controlled like Apples selling apps App Store something Spotify called European regulators Wednesday She also said would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions Facebooks takeovers Instagram WhatsApp
Her pitch isnt perfect The New York Timess Kevin Roose pointed generic misses easy wins overlooks big issues But bold inspiring rally cry Big Techs biggest critics
At end spectrum tech companies Ideally likes Facebook Google would love perpetually operate lightly regulated world helped grow quickly But even Mark Zuckerberg Facebooks chief executive acknowledged inevitable regulation testified House Energy Commerce Committee April
Theres plenty room extremes Take example report published Wednesday British government called overhaul antitrust policies Big Tech Its main proposal new regulator identify companies strategic market status block activities promoting products services search results belonging competitors hello Google
That reports authors say probusiness proconsumer solution changing antitrust law drive breakup businesses
So whos right Mr Zuckerberg least says regulatory intervention inevitable Theres strong bipartisan support regulation As line drawn thats harder say
Breaking big companies isnt easy Its expensive takes long time And doesnt always go plan The last notable attempt judge ruled two decades ago Microsoft cleaved violated antitrust law overturned appeal So Ms Warren could work cut
But may ultimately become question balancing ambition need Is better gamble breaking big companies guarantee new rules curb behavior Thats something lawmakers going wrestle
When OpenAI founded three years ago huge goal build artificial intelligence software capable human brain Its founders said nonprofit noble ambitions 1 billion funding backers pay way public could trust build socalled general artificial intelligence
Only 1 billion doesnt go far goals like Huge computing resources big salaries attract talent burn cash Actually turns profits might useful
So Wired reported Open AI announced changing business model To keep Facebook Google created OpenAI LP company take money investors need return profit like venture funds That make easier raise funds Down line might monetize technology develops But company decided cap returns investors see 100 every dollar invested
One way think figure OpenAI deems 100times return ethical margin building general AI enough make feasible endeavor much tar Big Tech brush That reasoning clearly holds inhabit Silicon Valley But interesting see profit cap enough put everyone ease
On March 12 1989 Tim BernersLee proposed idea linking digital files boss Mike Sendall called vague exciting It ultimately became World Wide Web 30 years later left much love hate existence
At event Londons Science Museum Tuesday mark webs passage fourth decade Mr BernersLee asked might look like another 30 years Heres said
Its I think us try guess
Look whats happened last 30 years The web changed really dramatically lot couldnt predicted
What say web want
We want web open We want web royaltyfree We want web discriminationfree
Worthy goals And article wrote past week Mr BernersLee laid steps may required ensure happen
Governments must translate laws regulations digital age They must ensure markets remain competitive innovative open
Companies must ensure pursuit shortterm profit expense human rights democracy scientific fact public safety
Platforms products must designed privacy diversity security mind
And important citizens must hold companies governments accountable
Thirty years Mr Sendalls analysis might apply equally well proposal
Elon Musk really dislikes whistleblowers According Businessweek Mr Musk Tesla chief executive set destroy one employee leaked details raw materials wastage company
How Google pay executives accused misconduct Handsomely Two shared total 135 million according details emerged lawsuit week
Who fund next wave tech startups Thatll millionaires created companies like Airbnb Uber go public
You care TikTok You might never use could reshape social media know
Scientists dropped smartphone blender Because apparently best way work much cobalt gold substances
How disappear almost completely A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps going dark staying online
Silicon Valley wants build monument To Silicon Valley obviously
Jamie Condliffe editor DealBook newsletter He also writes weekly Bits newsletter Follow Twitter jme_c
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Vivian Yee Hwaida Saad
BEIRUT Lebanon Lebanons newly formed government gives Islamist movement Hezbollah key ministries raised concerns country could run afoul sanctions United States prohibit material support Iranbacked group
On Friday United States warned Hezbollah propping agenda new position includes key posts Lebanons government including Ministry Health
American officials concerned Hezbollah use ministry provide statesubsidized health care patronage jobs supporters possibly even fighters helping endure punishing American sanctions made difficult group offer usual social services Shiite Muslim base
We call new government ensure resources services ministries provide support Hezbollah said State Department spokesman Robert Palladino
As new cabinet coalesced Thursday nearly nine months political deadlock assistant United States Treasury secretary terrorist financing Marshall Billingslea warned Hezbollah tried exploit ministries funnel money undertake activities support terrorist agenda significant concerns
Hezbollah expected gain strength government group allies expanded share seats Lebanons parliamentary elections last May significantly weakening Westernbacked prime minister Saad Hariri bloc Now control Health Ministry fourthlargest budget government ability embed Lebanese state institutions made bigger target elusive prey United States designated terrorist group
Lebanons political system awards posts patronage spoils politicians different religious affiliations order maintain balance among countrys 18 officially recognized religious sects There long history ministers stripes using Health Ministry provide free subsidized health care supporters Analysts believe Hezbollah may try whether Shiite base troublingly United States Hezbollah fighters wounded Syrian civil war next door
This yet another example Hezbollah openly holding Lebanons security prosperity hostage said Rachel Mikeska spokeswoman American Embassy Lebanon She added United States prepared take whatever actions necessary protect interests Lebanese people
She declined say actions might But analysts said possibilities ranged relatively restrained reducing funding Health Ministry squeezing international donors like World Health Organization dire The United States could theoretically impose sanctions Lebanese hospitals preventing export American medications Lebanon cut American military aid Lebanese Army
It unclear Hezbollah might Health Ministry Trump administration would consider violation sanctions law President Trump signed October Analysts said Hezbollah may chosen Dr Jamil Jabak 63yearold internist close ties Hezbollah health minister try avoid direct sanctions ministry Dr Jabak member Hezbollah said served personal physician groups leader
Would Washington consider free health care Hezbollah members provided Health Ministry example significant financial support wrote Michael Young political observer journalist Carnegie Middle East Center Beirut opinion column last year Its difficult say would never
The United States various interests Lebanon often end conflict including comes Hezbollah It wants counter Iran proxies also maintain Lebanons stability war Syria continues burn also wants battle terrorism push back Russian influence Middle East
Though Washington designated Hezbollah terrorist organization actions around world close relationship Iran group also baked legitimate parts Lebanese state making difficult United States target without also affecting rest country
The debate US Lebanon always prioritize balance competing priorities said Firas Maksad director Arabia Foundation Washingtonbased think tank leans toward proSaudi Arabia antiIran policies
On one side debate antiIran hardliners argue Iran Mediterranean Hezbollah uses Lebanese political elite Lebanese government thin veil political cover Mr Maksad said
Those voices include Republicans Congress members Trump administration may push cutting aid Lebanese Army significant source support armed forces well Health Ministry
Opposing hawkish views including much traditional foreign policy establishment prefer measured response
Given Lebanons floundering economy political instability Mr Maksad said dont want whole place come The prospect economic collapse greatly increased pressure countrys political factions strike powersharing agreement
They also argue reducing military aid would leave room Russia expanded influence across Middle East make inroads Lebanon
In general sanctions financial tools come primary stick used United States Iran regional partners On trip Beirut last week Mr Billingslea urged Lebanese officials exclude Hezbollah involvement countrys banking financial sectors called reforms would allow Lebanese authorities block freeze accounts associated group
But Hezbollah continues expand influence Lebanese institutions sanctions may prove overly blunt tool hitting legitimate government services civilians addition party
In past Hezbollah played smaller role government could easily separate Hezbollah state institutions said Hanin Ghaddar LebaneseAmerican analyst Washington Institute Near East Policy frequent critic Hezbollah
Now Hezbollah commanding broad swath government asked How keep stability Lebanese institutions going Hezbollah everything
But Kassem Qassir Lebanese political analyst close Hezbollah said concerns Hezbollahs dominance overblown
Nobody sole control Lebanon neither Hezbollah anybody else said Lebanon diverse country
In televised interview Saturday Hassan Nasrallah organizations secretary general said group intend meddle Lebanons balance power
But Mr Maksad noted Hezbollah managed forge pacts Christian Sunni politicians well Shiite ones held formation new government prime minister Sunni agreed allow Hezbollahs Sunni allies cabinet unmistakable mark strength
Of new faces 30seat cabinet Dr Jabak physician leading ministry closely watched West attracted immediate attention
I dont belong political party said radio interview Friday


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Julia Jacobs
Forty years ago CSpan went live first public broadcast House Representatives chamber giving Americans televisionshaped window lawmakers behave ornate room history often made
Ushering CSpan era March 19 1979 Al Gore representative Tennessee pushed networks access Capitol
From day forward Mr Gore said time every member body must ask many Americans listening debates made
Since day CSpan debuted four employees network become mainstay American politics We spoke Susan Swain one CSpans two chief executives birth network Washingtons initial resistance caught camera network adapted social media age
This interview Ms Swain joined CSpan three years started edited brevity clarity
In moment Al Gore approached lectern House chamber CSpan went live changed American politics
The fact people could actually see elected representatives living room phones fundamental change In past people might pull lever every two years member Congress super engaged might read newsletter came mail go occasional town hall meeting
This meant time interested could watch member Congress say Prior television Congress time members really got attention big names like Kennedy something outrageous either positively negatively member leadership
Initially lot resistance Washington idea CSpan broadcasting House floor debates And Senate didnt allow CSpan another seven years Why resistance
Members concerns cameras would swinging around taking pictures members focused attentively debates heaven forbid closing eyes second Or today perhaps might sending tweet
One ways finally came bear created compromise members could live The compromise House Representatives speakers office would control cameras floor House All rest Congress press conferences hearings CSpan news organizations covering independently
Every time theres change speaker sent letter saying Nows time Allow CSpan journalistic organizations put cameras side side That argument continues go nowhere
Were politicians selfconscious theyd appear camera
I think concern wouldnt control picture The Senate finally acquiesced classic story American politics
The House coming peoples living rooms via CSpan regularly nightly news could picked regularly nightly stories House Television loves pictures would stories House The Senate becoming concerned becoming secondtier citizen Congress
The person really instrumental Senator Robert Byrd West Virginia one oldline members much institutionalist much concerned Senate would change He went home West Virginia speak introduced West Virginia home state speaker House And big shock white hair thenSpeaker House Tip ONeill And brought home So convinced recalcitrant members vote CSpan went June 1986
What one significant memories time CSpan
The day Challenger shuttle exploded televising live I believe I air shuttle going And became clear watched picture shuttle major catastrophe
We sat watched long NASA took pictures story began unfold Then opened phone lines There incredible outpouring around country people witnessing absolute tragedy human tragedy also technological tragedy unfold front eyes
CSpan given politicians platform connect directly constituents social media Is CSpan still relevant
CSpans relevance comes form events cover every day within minutes televise digitized stored video archives It 250000 hours political video weve covered since 1987
That means member Congress pull clip hearing send constituents It also means people social media latenight comedians immediate access
I think people 20s younger experience CSpan social media latenight comedians The creation video library 1987 every bit significant original creation CSpan
CSpan long fought cameras allowed Supreme Court chamber What chances youll succeed
I feel little bit like Sisyphus pushing rock hill What documented years people nominated Supreme Court go committee hearings expressing open mind concept get inside chamber nine manage convinced others would detrimental institution
We keep hoping generations change younger appointees come familiar media even social media attitude change But institution continues prevail
Follow Julia Jacobs Twitter juliarebeccaj



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Its another sign President Trumps weakness
By David Leonhardt
Opinion Columnist
This article part David Leonhardts newsletter You sign receive weekday
President Trumps emergency declaration border wall based obvious falsehood There emergency USMexico border And goaded declaration Sean Hannity episode makes mockery federal government
But relative scheme Trumps misbehavior emergency declaration doesnt rank high Its corruption obstruction justice Its attempt undermine Americas alliance Western Europe And doesnt even matter much immigration policy If youre trying calibrate Trumprelated outrage take deep breath morning
A presidential declaration emergency order construct wall would stupid Lawfares Quinta Jurecic wrote It would wasteful It would test limits presidents authority law question But would step toward authoritarianism Heres longer version case
Listen The Argument podcast every Thursday morning Ross Douthat Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt
This challenged courts immediately pretty easy throw thing Neal Katyal former acting solicitor general predicted Lawrence ODonnells MSNBC show last night
Trumps fake emergency sign weakness strength tweeted The New Yorkers John Cassidy He ran wall two years Republican control Congress still couldnt get financed Weak president
And Philip Klein The Washington Examiner made conservative case declaration The hope limited government conservatives emergency declaration gets quickly enjoined eventually nixed federal court At least silver lining would legal precedent would set president attempt end around Congress
The China rivalry
Ive always thought Americans would come together realized faced dangerous foreign foe colleague David Brooks writes And lo behold one China Its become increasingly clear China grave economic technological intellectual threat United States world order
I agree United States complacent geopolitical challenge China poses
If subscriber newsletter subscribe You also join Twitter DLeonhardt Facebook
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
David Leonhardt former Washington bureau chief Times founding editor The Upshot head The 2020 Project future Times newsroom He 2011 Pulitzer Prize commentary columns financial crisis DLeonhardt Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Why American conservatism Trump may learn like state
By Ross Douthat
Opinion Columnist
Since conservatism became movement 1950s American right understood defending written American Constitution unwritten one well kind cultural social constitution deeply rooted national history checks balances official political system help sustain
Under constitution America three branches government great diversity power centers religious corporate familial philanthropic Under constitution important institutions national life arent political ones theyre institutions civil society flourished conservative argument goes precisely government kept within limits state hasnt coopted crushed rivals influence power
Thus conservatives preach virtues limited government isnt Herbert Hoovers rugged individual imagine defending They envision larger communitarian panoply civic associations religious denominations charities universities private schools needs protection jealousy centralizing state And tend assume keeping American corporation embedded communitarian system better way balance productivity innovation publicspiritedness trying regulate micromanage businesses good behavior
If wanted summarize intellectual uncertainties conservatives Trump era could say right trying figure whether unwritten American constitution imagines defending still exists And doesnt failing whether means limited government slogan strategy increasingly irrelevant comes shaping society conservatives would like America
The latter argument Donald Trump implicitly pressed optimistic opponents 2016 primaries They defenders American dream conservatives long defined dark conspiratorial tones businessman rival raised set uncomfortable questions Is America still nation thriving local communities energetic civic life Is America still deeply religious country strong churches growing denominations Are American businessmen basically public spirited eager compete equal terms government removes heavy hand natural allies political movement wedded patriotism religion
For years conservative critics sociologists intellectuals acknowledging answers might countrys oncerich associational civic religious life declining dissolving corporate America embraces conservative slogans keep taxes low unions weak otherwise seems postpatriotic performatively woke silent majority hardworking pious culturally conservative bluecollar families essentially defunct
Many best conservative books last decade Coming Apart Charles Murray The Fractured Republic Yuval Levin describe emerging America doesnt much resemble Tocquevillian familychurchcommunity landscape familiar past conservative descriptions American exceptionalism The latest example Alienated America Why Some Places Thrive While Others Collapse Tim Carney mix sociology shoeleather reporting convincingly situates rise Trump context Middle Americas communitarian collapse
But accounts like Carneys acknowledge role economic forces globalization trade deindustrialization dissolution family community also tend insist contra liberals new socialist vanguard also contra Trump cultural collapse isnt primarily driven economic policy decisions cant reversed public policies programs Instead tend suggest state interventions often replace community instead strengthening cast communitarian revival necessarily local project government play best supporting dontmakemattersworse kind role
These kind arguments still continuity basic conservative posture last generations But also increasingly partisans rupture right loose group statepower conservatives hint Tocquevillian dream dying cause limited government increasingly irrelevant turn would require conservatives become comfortable using power state engaged centralized policymaking specific social cultural ends mind
This argument visible controversy surrounding Tucker Carlsons monologue month ago stirred libertarian backlash calling Republicans use government policy make American life friendlier families particularly singleearner households It also informs difference Carneys book smart rightofcenter volume moment Oren Casss The Once Future Worker The two authors share certain common ground end Carney concludes current economic social ills solved even significantly ameliorated president central government Casss whole thesis wiser policymaking could make big difference unhappy heartlanders Carney profiles
But fullest case rupture declaring era limited government offered two recent essays conservative intellectual journals Dan McCarthys A New Conservative Agenda First Things Gladden Pappins Toward Party State American Affairs Both envision conservatism oriented less toward stateasenemy stateasdanger much toward stateasshaper stateasharmonizer For instance McCarthys account economic nationalism Donald Trump transmuted something less inchoate effective
Economic nationalism tariffs It less economic nationalism takes account different needs different walks life regions country serving whole serving parts drawing together In past challenge harmonize farmers urban capital labor The challenge balance groups postindustrial classes well strengthen productive economy largely fictional economy administrators clerks All sake prosperity raw dollar terms national economy provides basis healthy culture citizens families flourish
Pappin makes similar argument political coalitions especially right adapt current challenge illiberal postliberal forces populist socialist
Rather asking question What conservativesprogressives considerable advances made certain purely practical considerations How integrity national political community assured How commercial activity technological development continue turned toward common good toward strategic advantage What reins power state ensure common good citizens
The likely answers practical questions Pappin contends require conservatives make practical use administrative state rightwing ends rather constantly returning plaintive nostalgic counterproductive calls abolition
A hostile reader essays libertarian liberal might respond vision rightwing governments seek reshape culture mediate classes resembles nothing much early20th century fascism A sympathetic reader would say plenty space statefriendly conservative politics movement conservatism Mussolini McCarthy Pappin envisioning might better described blend American Hamiltonian tradition 21stcentury update French Gaullism
And subtle reader might say theyre trying provide theory move Republican Party power tends make anyway last two GOP presidents sense big government conservatives far without strategy seriousness selfconsciousness required make project success
I enough skepticism efficacy state power uncertain project succeed But postTrump conservatives likely drawn statepower conservatism theoretical ambition sense political necessity
The earlier conservative selfunderstanding right defending nongovernmental institutions power state tacitly depended assumption many nongovernmental institutions would friendly conservative values But civil society decayed recent decades remaining power centers also become increasingly leftwing
Alreadyliberal institutions universities Hollywood big foundations mass media uniformly allied left even recent past Corporate America happily donates Republicans fears Bernie Sanders presidency cultural issues big business courts younger customers progressive lobbying propaganda In religion Catholicism Pope Francis aspires scandals permitting ease way leftward well leaving evangelical Christianity isolated bastion little cultureshaping power
Yet conservatives still win White House Congress means one power center hope control one notionally organized limit administrative state
If assume people tend seek power devise justifications seeking power plausibly exercised statepower conservatives may need strongest intellectual arguments change way right thinks state Instead limited government conservatism may give way attempt improve Trumpism clearer blueprints smarter cadres reason changes often happen political ideology people whose thinking changing feel dont choice
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTOpinion Instagram join Facebook political discussion group Voting While Female
Ross Douthat Opinion columnist The Times since 2009 He author several books recently To Change Church Pope Francis Future Catholicism You follow Twitter DouthatNYT
You follow Twitter DouthatNYT
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Eurotunnel sued Department Transport handling contracts provide extra freight capacity
By Amie Tsang
LONDON Add list headaches faced Britains government frantically tries prepare Brexit 33 million pound 44 million payment settle lawsuit brought Eurotunnel company operates rail link France Britain
Eurotunnel sued Britains Department Transport handling contracts provide extra transportation capacity event country leaves European Union without deal place
The company accused British government limiting competition open bidding contracts worth millions dollars according court filings
In December Britains government signed contracts DFDS Danish shipping company Brittany Ferries French company supply extra freight capacity bring essential goods medicines country event nodeal Brexit
The government also signed contract Seaborne Freight ferry company later found BBC run ferry service The deal came heavy criticism one lawmaker calling shell company The firm also ridiculed echoing website terms conditions business specializing takeout meals Seaborne Freight pulled contract
The government settled case Eurotunnel avoid prolonged legal tussle tries make arrangements March 29 country scheduled exit European Union
Government departments Britains businesses furiously preparing case country leaves European Union without agreement setting terms separation There fears lack clarity port arrangements could lead gridlock roads problems getting food medicine people Britain
We taking steps ensure supply chains continue function whatever circumstances departure mitigation place avoid disruption borders Stephen Barclay Brexit secretary said statement Friday
Chris Grayling transport secretary added While disappointing Eurotunnel chose take legal action contracts place ensure smooth supply vital medicines I pleased agreement ensure Channel Tunnel ready postBrexit world
Eurotunnel agreed withdraw case take unspecified actions improve security traffic flow
Eurotunnel concluded outofcourt agreement secretary state transport ensure Channel Tunnel remains preferred route vital goods travel EU UK company said
Amie Tsang general assignment business reporter based London covered variety topics including gender pay gap aviation London Fatberg amietsang
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday Want email Sign
Bipartisan negotiations forge border security deal broke yesterday potentially setting federal government another shutdown ahead Friday deadline
What happened The impasse appears center Democratic demands limit number unauthorized immigrants already country could detained Immigration Customs Enforcement officers according aides familiar talks according NYT Republicans wanted exception cap criminals Democrats said proposed 16500bed cap left enough room
Whats stake The last shutdown longest US history cost American economy 11 billion tanked President Trumps political standing public Another shutdown could cause economic harm hitting IRS tax season starts
Whats next Lawmakers could pass another shortterm spending bill though many reluctant punt final budget agreement Meanwhile Mr Trump preparing hold rally supporters El Paso Many city arent happy But really two choices according Axios shut government declare national emergency get border wall money options horrible
The Amazon founder risked embarrassment going public said extortion attempt The National Enquirer So far hes scoring big points Saturday Night Live jokes aside
His disclosure gotten results Federal prosecutors reviewing extortion claim NYT reports citing unnamed sources If The Enquirers parent company broke law would violation nonprosecution agreement paying hush money help President Trump 2016 A lawyer publishers chairman said yesterday company committed crime
And hes winning PR battle At time billionaires reviled Maureen Dowd NYT writes richest dude earth managed come traumatic week inspiring admiration Glenn Greenwald The Intercept counters would odd Mr Bezos gain pity given Amazon critical partner US government building evermore invasive militarized sprawling surveillance state
Where The Enquirer go wrong Danny Westneat The Seattle Times points picked fight head company powerful got Seattle change tax policies 3 billion tax incentives New York office space You dont pressure Amazon It goes way around Mr Westneat writes
But Mr Bezos could still lose Jon Swartz Barrons notes Amazon shares fell 26 percent Friday His handson management considered crucial success company anything pulls attention away daytoday management least concern investors Mr Swartz writes
Fears Britains withdrawal EU could roil economies officially spread across Atlantic
Wall Street warned Brexits impact With less seven weeks go UK due leave EU several SP 500 groups first time put Wall Street formal notice risks London Brussels fail reach divorce deal FT reports Companies like Lockheed Martin McCormick Expedia Cadbury spoken
Driving concern fears depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable Britain costs imported British goods could rise Theres also fear broader effect Brexit global political economic stability
American banks also nervous While US banks want Britain maintain closest possible ties EU Brexit UK banks insurers anxious dont become beholden new laws made Brussels Bloomberg reports
More Brexit news The EUs chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said reopen existing Brexit deal open reworking political declaration accompanies The British government trying secure extra two weeks win concessions Europe promising lawmakers another vote Britains withdrawal options And Prime Minister Theresa May also offered concessions opposing Labour Party break current impasse Parliament
Americans getting rude surprise Their refunds appear getting smaller despite President Trump Republicans passing huge set tax cuts year ago
How big drop The average refund 1865 84 percent smaller average refund period last year Reuters reports citing figures IRS Heather Long WaPo adds number people receiving refund fallen nearly 25 percent far The IRS warns read much figures part data result delayed processing due government shutdown
Why happening Its actually sign Americans paying taxes People generally got piece tax cut last year gradually form lower withholding paychecks Joseph Rosenberg UrbanBrookings Tax Policy Center told WaPo
People angry nonetheless The WaPo reports People already taken social media using hashtag GOPTaxScam vent anger Many blame President Trump Republicans shrinking refunds Some Twitter even said wouldnt vote Trump seeing refunds slashed
The last class tech companies gained valuations 1 billion including Uber Airbnb remade entire industries Dont expect next wave nearly flashy according Erin Griffith NYT
Who They names like Benchling Checkr Zola many create software specific industries including data analysis systems farmers background checks gig workers
Why arent exciting predecessors Ms Griffith points Uber Airbnb peers built global empires simply taking existing businesses like taxis food delivery hotels making mobile Easy opportunities disrupt traditional businesses dried forcing new companies find smaller niches
But dont underestimate potential Maybe sexy companies first wave venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded NYT But Anand Sanwal data provider CB Insights said still growing fast adding If one highmomentum companies investors going beating door much interest investing next big winner
Christine Lagarde managing director International Monetary Fund warned yesterday global economy growing slowly anticipated
She sees four big risks Trade tensions tariff escalations financial tightening uncertainty related Brexit outcome spillover impact accelerated slowdown Chinese economy clouds horizon told World Government Summit Dubai
And could spell trouble When many clouds added takes one lighting bolt start storm
But IMF thinks Fed playing smart The fact Fed put pause raising rates going provide lot support economy Gita Gopinath IMFs top economist told FT We endorse Fed view datadriven approach
President Trump expected sign executive order today meant spur development regulation artificial intelligence Cade Metz NYT writes
The news Mr Trump introduce American AI Initiative aims better educate workers field improve access cloud computing services data needed build AI systems promote cooperation foreign powers
Context AI experts across industry academia government long called Trump administration make development artificial intelligence major priority Mr Metz writes adding concerned China could surpass United States development technologies
But The order set aside funds AI research development Mr Metz adds administration provided details put new policies effect
Steve Mandel stepped head hedge fund Lone Pine Capital
Among reasons Santander rescinded offer hire investment banker Andrea Orcel Reportedly desire attend World Economic Forum Davos Switzerland
Kristina Salen former chief financial officer shopping site Etsy joined Moda Operandi luxury fashion startup CFO
The English Premier League looking America successor CEO Richard Scudamore British candidates appear uninterested job
Deals
The aluminumparts maker Arconic plans break WSJ
Apollo Global Management reportedly near deal buy Cox Enterprisess 14 regional TV stations 3 billion Reuters
The medical equipment maker Smith Nephew reportedly held talks buy NuVasive maker medical instruments spinal surgeries 3 billion FT
TPG Capital closed seventh Asiafocused private equity fund 46 billion Reuters
Politics policy
Democratic lawmakers proposing steep new taxes superrich public loves NYT
Senator Michael Bennet Democrat Colorado potential presidential candidate says cutting private health insurance part Medicare bad opening offer Politico
President Trump succeeded dividing Democrats warning socialism Hill
The biggest star Clive Daviss exclusive preGrammys gala Speaker Nancy Pelosi AP
Trade
Trade talks US China resume today Beijing Straits Times
White House officials reportedly discussed summit meeting President Trump President Xi Jinping China MaraLago next month resolve trade fight Axios
The trade agreement replace Nafta faces uphill climb Congress Axios
Tech
Some Amazon executives reportedly reconsidering decision set campus New York opponents think might bluff WSJ Recode
Huawei threatened sue Czech Republic countrys cybersecurity agency rescind warning risk company poses nations critical infrastructure NYT
Sprint accused ATT false advertising saying rival incorrectly telling customers receiving 5G data service WSJ
Tesla may finally delivering Model 3s cant keep servicing WSJ
Best rest
A new activist hedge fund Impactive Capital rarity Its female minorityled WSJ
Household staples diapers baking soda may get expensive WSJ
US colleges raised 467 billion year ended last June led Harvard 14 billion Bloomberg
Heres rundown 100 sustainable US companies according Barrons Barrons
How Feds recent Uturn rates cascaded global markets NYT
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ivan Nechepurenko
MOSCOW Russian lawmakers moving restrict freedom speech passed bills Thursday would introduce jail terms fines insulting government online spreading socalled fake news
The bills seen effort preempt control public criticism Russias prolonged economic stagnation pushes Kremlins approval ratings They reflect nearly twodecadelong project President Vladimir V Putin put information flow state control push made difficult growth internet
The new measures await final passage upper chamber parliament Mr Putins signature He expressed support restrictions insulting state online
One set bills passed lower house Duma would subject private individuals fines 3000 15 days administrative arrest insulting government online Individuals would face fines 6000 posting termed fake news
Another bill would demand news media outlets websites remove information shows clear disrespect society state symbols Russian Constitution government Internet service providers website owners would one day remove insults face complete block
Lawmakers also passed bill would force websites immediately remove false publicly important information government watchdog deems threat public order
The measures stipulate clearly would considered fake news The authors said interviews would determined state prosecutors government communications watchdog
Critics said measures loosely defined allow government block information online finds undesirable
With bills wording vague possible Vladimir A Ryzhkov opposition politician said Facebook create possibilities widest possible arbitrariness law enforcement As result societys trust government fall public atmosphere poisoned
As Russians switch television largely controlled state Kremlin allies internet main source information government made keeping web control top priority
In February lawmakers proposed creating infrastructure separate Russia global internet altogether Last year state banned Telegram popular messaging app
The Russian government opened assault socalled fake news even United States accused Moscow engaging practice disinformation campaign intended sway 2016 American presidential election
The new bills passed Russians trust government agencies Mr Putin particular steadily declining For first time since annexation Crimea 2014 number Russians say country heading wrong direction surpassed say opposite The finding came poll conducted January independent pollster Levada
The share people approve Mr Putins work president declined 20 percentage points since reached postCrimea peak 86 percent 2015
Nikolai F Uskov editor Forbes Russia magazine frequent commentator said bills governments weapon media
The government clearly getting ready protest moods grow reflected publications social networks media said speaking Ekho Moskvy radio station I dont think save state added wave anger sweep away restrictions
Follow Ivan Nechepurenko Twitter INechepurenko


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By David Zucchino Fahim Abed
KABUL Afghanistan Afghanistans coalition government fired Tuesday commissioners directed fraudtainted parliamentary elections last fall country prepares presidential race summer watches leaders sidelines peace talks unfold Americans Taliban
The move follows push opposition politicians postpone election form interim government part peace deal could include Taliban President Ashraf Ghani fumed governments exclusion AmericanTaliban talks insisted election held time
The firings came series meetings government civil society groups political parties portrayed badly needed consensus electoral reform The commissioners called dismissal political decision officials hope serve new government
The election already pushed back April July The panel behind decision Independent Election Commission one two whose members removed Tuesday
Replacement commissioners named Mr Ghani coalition partner Abdullah Abdullah charged preparing presidential election feature men candidates
Mr Ghani said central government strong mandate negotiate behalf country The Taliban dealing directly Americans refused include Afghan government consider illegitimate
Zalmay Khalilizad leader American delegation said last week hoped secure peace deal July election He said last month United States Taliban agreed principle framework peace deal
The Afghan election commission widely accused sowing confusion disarray October parliamentary elections three years late tainted accusations voterigging bribery incompetence Winners certified third 250 seats Parliament
The attorney generals office prosecuted 313 people accused violations including forging selling election stickers national ID cards needed cast vote
In statement late Tuesday office said 12 commissioners two election bodies barred leaving country investigators appointed look charges abuse authority
The firings set legal confrontation dismissed members saying move violated election law
The amendment election law presidential decree president also candidate Constitution commissioners said joint statement This political decision legal constitutional one
Mr Ghanis deputy spokesman Shahhusain Murtazawi said election results remain place He said protests could lodged second affected commission called Independent Election Complaint Commission judicial groups The head commissions secretariat remains place acting director
Given officials administered election fired roughly 2000 losing candidates expected protest If results reexamined canceled would affect preparations presidential election already behind schedule assurance required funding place
One losing parliamentary candidate Fawad Aman said anyone seated Parliament would remain cloud suspicion And commissioners punished said Afghans could lose faith electoral process refrain voting
If dismissed prosecuted means political game president influence election commissions presidential election Mr Aman said
Nayim Ayubzada head Transparent Election Foundation Afghanistan independent election monitoring group said firings made hastily government paid little attention legal process addressing fraud accusations
We worry decision president candidate may things turn things favor Mr Ayubzada said If decides hastily election issues raise questions transparency elections
Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah appoint new heads members commissions selected candidates put forward civil society groups political parties within next week
Supporters firings said necessary make commissioners accountable bungling expensive election process secured Afghan forces amid raging war Each Afghan election bankrolled international donations proved least problematic last
The 2014 presidential election fraudulent two leading candidates claimed victory nearly tore country apart prompted Western officials step mediators John Kerry secretary state negotiated powersharing government top two candidates Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah promise would prioritize election reforms avoid another fiasco
The two men slow make progress reforms given infighting government war Taliban Now Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah get name new commissioners oversee election peak summer fighting season peace process plays
Those challenges left many Afghans skeptical new commissioners Mr Ayubzada election observer said doubted presidential election would even held year process overshadowed ongoing peace talks political dealing
Mujib Mashal contributed reporting Kandahar Afghanistan




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Tuesday Want email Sign
Democratic Republican negotiators said last night agreement principle border security funding could keep federal government open
The deal includes 138 billion pay 55 miles new fencing technology staffing border protection Its 57 billion President Trump demanded build 200mile wall Democrats waived demand limits detention capacity immigrants
But theres guarantee go The House Senate would vote pact Mr Trump would sign I think everyone say Good work Representative Kay Granger Texas one Republican negotiators said Still rally Texas last night Mr Trump insisted build wall And influential Republican commentators like Fox News host Sean Hannity called deal garbage compromise
The remaining alternatives hugely unattractive Politico notes potential White House plan redirect unspent federal funds toward wall would create firestorm And another government shutdown could hit US economy endanger aviation safety
The British prime minister scheduled update lawmakers later today progress negotiations withdrawing EU
She big favor ask Mrs May focused making changes socalled backstop exit deal designed prevent hard border Ireland Northern Ireland She made little headway Bloomberg explains plan today
Mrs May update Parliament progress talks EU outline motion shell put MPs debate Thursday office said
She expected ask Parliament restate demand remove backstop Withdrawal Agreement promise vote hasnt brought renegotiated deal back Parliament Feb 27
The aim reassure members across House Commons concerned May deliberately running clock risking potentially disastrous nodeal divorce
But EU still isnt budging Its chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said yesterday something give British side
Yet Mrs May could force plan Parliament Bloomberg explains though also admits lot could go wrong
More Brexit news Britain weakest economic growth six years last year It signed trade deal Switzerland biggest since 2016 Brexit referendum And government sued awarding contract freight shipments nodeal Brexit ferry company boats
The former Fed chairman recently sat Ray Dalio Bridgewater Capital wideranging conversation topics state US principles good government Dont time watch Here highlights
On Washington Mr Volcker lamented condition US government repeating past criticisms Youve got presidents dont seem mind either personal behavior making outrageous statements true told Mr Dalio You Congress thats unable function effectively
On Civil Service For former Fed chairman important problem solve make government work appear honorable Public administrations bad word told Mr Dalio leaving important government departments without effective leaders
What Mr Volcker He set Volcker Alliance meant help schools train future government officials Its great trick Mr Volcker said How get expertise leadership need still respect popular desire
Optimism personal finances hasnt high 16 years according study Gallup
Sixtynine percent Americans expect better time next year That two percentage points alltime high 71 percent recorded March 1998 according Gallup Thats survey carried Jan 2 Jan 10 middle government shutdown
Half respondents say theyre better year ago That figure consistently half since 2007 Gallup says
The optimism hard overstate Only 11 times 109 polls stretching back 1976 least half polled said better financial shape year prior Gallup notes Only 114 polls going back 1977 Americans optimistic personal finances coming year today
Europe sleepwalking oblivion people Europe need wake late George Soros writes opinion piece Project Syndicate
Neither leaders ordinary citizens seem understand experiencing revolutionary moment range possibilities broad eventual outcome thus highly uncertain
The next inflection point elections European Parliament May 2019 Unfortunately antiEuropean forces enjoy competitive advantage balloting
The first step defending Europe enemies internal external recognize magnitude threat present The second awaken sleeping proEuropean majority mobilize defend values EU founded
The firm said yesterday would buy Solium Capital manages stock paid corporate employees 900 million Its biggest deal major Wall Street firm since financial crisis whats rationale
The bank wants millennial wealth Soliums clients include startups like Instacart Stripe could go public multibilliondollar valuations making employees rich
Wall Street approves strategy Analysts Evercore ISI wrote yesterday Solium gives Morgan Stanley real path towards organic growth next generation clients many investors questioning Matthew Klein Barrons wrote last week millennials could hold key improving American productivity wealth
And banks seem newly hungry deals Days Morgan Stanleys acquisition BBT agreed buy SunTrust biggest bank merger since 2008 crisis Banking chiefs seem heartened loosened regulations sector eager capitalize acquisitions Wed like James Gorman Morgan Stanleys CEO told WSJ And JPMorgan Chase reportedly considered buying asset manager WisdomTree according Bloomberg
Its eight months Mario Draghis finishes nonrenewable term president European Central Bank Choosing successor important difficult WSJ reports
Investors trusted Mr Draghi WSJ says navigate toxic mix risks Europe Brexit trade wars
At least five unofficial candidates appear running replace according European officials two Frenchmen two Finns German The candidates different economic philosophies clear frontrunner
The winner might chosen balance nationalities EUs leadership rather purely merit The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo chief executive Centre European Policy Studies Brussels think tank risks Its systemically important job Europe man controls show said It go badly wrong
WSJ reporters scoured fourthquarter results US companies attempt better understand slowing Chinas economic growth
What found Many companies struggling weaker demand export manufacturers China pulling back amid fears trade tensions worsen Austen Hufford Theo Francis WSJ report Retailers companies catering Chinese consumers face signs weakness among countrys growing middle class They buying fewer cars phones traveling less
The conclusion The indications slowing growth broad still modest Mr Hufford Mr Francis write
Just half PGEs directors stand reelection year utility filed bankruptcy amid California wildfires
ColgatePalmolive named Noel Wallace COO chief executive replacing Ian Cook
GV venture capital arm Alphabet hired David Schenkein former CEO Agios Pharmaceuticals cohead life sciences
Apple named Frank Casanova longtime iPhone executive first head marketing augmented reality
Sony appointed Jim Ryan CEO PlayStation business
Deals
Colony Capital investment firm founded real estate mogul Tom Barrack explore selling assets activist hedge fund Blackwells Capital took stake Colony
SoftBanks Vision Fund led 940 million investment Nuro driverless delivery startup FT
Amazon agreed buy Eero makes wireless routers advance smarthome ambitions Reuters
Peloton makes videostreaming stationary bikes treadmills reportedly interviewing banks prepare IPO WSJ
DoorDash delivery startup reportedly process raising 500 million 6 billion valuation WSJ
Reddit raised 150 million Tencent users fear censorship Verge
Politics policy
President Trump Gov Andrew Cuomo New York meet today discuss revising cap deductions state local taxes Bloomberg
Democratic presidential contenders see small donors rather traditional wealthy backers test viability 2020 race WaPo
Contrary popular belief Mr Trumps presidency hurt Americas gun lobby NYT editorial
Trade
President Trump reportedly eager meet President Xi Jinping China discuss trade deal Bloomberg
American tariffs Chinese goods reduced two countries trade imbalance without helping US companies Axios
Chinese investments Israeli tech companies raising security concerns WSJ
Tech
Whats like contractor one Apples less glamorous offices Not much fun Bloomberg
Mars One Ventures promised oneway trips red planet bankrupt Verge
If New York doesnt want new Amazon campus Newark Bloomberg
Alphabet Microsoft discreetly warning AI could harm brands Wired
The Jeff Bezos saga
The American Media Inc lawyer reportedly sought deal Mr Bezoss private photos Amazon Kindle executive WSJ
American Media reportedly asked Justice Department whether needed register foreign agent ties Saudi Arabia WSJ
The WaPo found tricky situation reporting owners fight The National Enquirer cause battle NYT
Best rest
Could leveraged loans sink US economy FT
For two years Goldman Sachs bet companies strong balance sheets Not anymore CNBC
The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says theres mania share buybacks hes worried social consequences CNBC
Toys R Us planning comeback later year NYT
Is corporate America headed toward earnings recession DealBook
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Chinas openingup policies led improvements life business

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role posts creation
Advertisement
Supported
New Zealands prime minister moved swiftly ban weapons mass killing gunman attacked two mosques
By The Editorial Board
The editorial board represents opinions board editor publisher It separate newsroom OpEd section
The murder 50 Muslim worshipers New Zealand allegedly 28yearold Australian white supremacist long scrutinized way violent hatreds spawned staged social media internet But world learn way Jacinda Ardern New Zealands prime minister responded horror
Almost immediately last Fridays killings Ms Ardern listened constituents outrage declared within days government would introduce new controls militarystyle weapons Christchurch shooter many mass killers United States used rampages And delivered
On Thursday Ms Ardern announced ban militarystyle semiautomatic automatic weapons parts used turn rifles weapons highcapacity ammunition magazines Its us said national interest safety
Earlier week told Parliament social media sites must address ease internet used spew hate images violence We simply sit back accept platforms exist said responsibility place published said It case profit responsibility
Ms Ardern didnt propose immediate measures limit reach Facebook Twitter internet publishers obvious could done without trampling freedom speech But made clear believed social media platforms like gun manufacturers dealers bore responsibility carnage visited Christchurch many communities recent years
The new gun proposal require considerable finetuning defining becomes law New Zealands existing laws relatively lenient large percentage estimated 12 million 15 million firearms owned 250000 people registered It known many become illegal new laws
But display one deranged man weapons designed combat seemed persuade majority New Zealanders strong majority Parliament need ban rapidfiring weapons
That attitude stood stark contrast way National Rifle Association political allies United States resisted restrictions weapons like AR15 semiautomatic rifle used several mass killings
In New Zealand took one mass shooting awaken government In United States even string mass killings 26 dead school Newtown Conn 49 nightclub Orlando 58 concert Las Vegas 17 school Parkland Fla enough Nor fact 73 percent Americans say needs done curb gun violence according recent polling
The ban terrorists weapon choice one areas Ms Ardern showed leadership looks like time crisis In lieu trite messages donned black head scarf led group politicians visit victims families speaking without script school victims attended urged pupils let New Zealand place tolerance racism Ever She told grieving families We know grief walk every stage
And striking gesture refused utter name suspected killer He may sought notoriety New Zealand give nothing said Not even name
After atrocity worlds leaders unite clearly condemning racism sharing grief victims stripping haters weapons Ms Ardern shown way
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Get 3D view Chinas government plans 2019

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role posts creation
Advertisement
Supported
The journalist Maria Ressa facing criminal charges social media threats
By Kara Swisher
Ms Swisher covers technology contributing opinion writer
Harassing journalists one Rodrigo Dutertes specialties Mr Duterte strongman president Philippines going Maria Ressa former CNN reporter founder online news site Rappler two years The campaign combines criminal charges Facebook smears intended tarnish reputation spread lies work
Last week Ms Ressa spent night jail charge cyberlibel 2012 article Rappler published allegations corrupt ties businessman judge
When spoke Skype Thursday attempts silence said I adjust normal even nothing normal She added It scare meant scare everyone else
Technically spent night conference room rather cell National Bureau Investigation agents trying nice told
It perhaps small gracious act relentless assault Ms Ressa Rappler
Kara Swisher answered questions Twitter
Rappler President Dutertes brutal regime publishing articles extrajudicial killings human rights abuses In mid2017 State Union speech president struck back criticizing Rappler owned Americans investors indeed United States He attempted get license revoked Ms Ressa charged tax evasion Then arrest cyberlibel considered criminal act
While seemed tired legal roadblocks undaunted even funny spoke I think I paid bail Imelda Marcos said referring shoeloving wife longtime ruler Philippines went ignominy
It morning Manila journalism Instead adding security Rapplers offices protect 100 employees forking money pay lawyers Legal fees already account quarter operating budget said
She also contending relentless manipulation social media says governmentfriendly sources spread false information Rappler These trolls focus Facebook Filipinos get news She called foreign agent troublemaker tax cheat traitor ugly
Last week two people Ms Ressa suspects working government managed slip Rapplers building broadcast video Facebook Live outside door urging protests social media attacks Among comments feed Hang Ressa Bomb Ressa Behead
Government officials said enjoying attention She Ms Ressa reported video Facebook She already provided company copious evidence way platform abused Mr Dutertes troll army This time Facebook responded blocking user posted video 30 days may popped Facebook Singapore though
Its catandmouse game Ms Ressa said Facebook haphazard enforcing rules While individual executives helpful Ms Ressa said shes hard time dealing Facebook responded slowly
Facebook worlds largest distributor news yet refused gatekeeper told recent onstage interview And allow lies actually get playing field facts taints entire public sphere At point said Facebook take lies
As noted Thursday night A lie told million times truth On social media though like billion times
Ms Ressa said wished tried stop online abuse sooner We ignored far long lesson I learned
She said would continue try work Facebook social media outlets Looking social media feed impossible since I cant defend I watch reputation dragged said Lately Ms Ressa said attacks Twitter worsened And I weirdly pummeled platform users calling Ms Ressa con artist since I posted I speaking
To try deal Ms Ressa said thinks lot Reinhold Niebuhrs Serenity Prayer I look stuff area control like making sure staff safe business able continue said weary sigh I dont want story
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram sign Opinion Today newsletter
Kara Swisher editor large technology news website Recode producer Recode Decode podcast Code Conference contributing opinion writer karaswisher Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Charlotte GrahamMcLay
WELLINGTON New Zealand In New Zealand members public accustomed seeing top government officials grocery store street unencumbered security guards common parts world
The countrys prime minister Jacinda Ardern even jokingly recounted Stephen Colbert The Late Show approached chatty strangers shopped maternity bras
But Thursday morning government minister attacked walking work alone capital city leading Ms Ardern warn New Zealanders unusual level access countrys lawmakers taken granted
We environment New Zealand politicians accessible thats something feel proud Ms Ardern said We serve people But todays events really show take granted
The victim James Shaw 45 coleader leftleaning Green Party minister climate change told police grabbed hit Thursday morning attack leaving black eye cuts face After treated scene went attend meeting Parliament admitting examination hospital remained Thursday afternoon
Pete Huggins Green Party spokesman said Mr Shaw told police assailant knew name although officers said whether believe attack planned motivated
The episode rattled New Zealand Mr Huggins described closeknit community open society
Unlike many countries including United States Britain prime minister lawmaker accompanied roundtheclock security personnel government ministers lawmakers Residents Wellington New Zealands capital regularly see elected officials walking cycling streets alone politicians opt take public transportation rather using government vehicles
I would hate see go Marama Davidson lawmaker leads Green Party Mr Shaw said news conference Thursday
It would shame lose way people approach us access us country added Thats one things I value way politics New Zealand
The police arrested charged 47yearold man attack Mr Shaw The man police identify appear Wellington District Court Friday
Lawmakers across political spectrum joined condemning attack Wellingtons mayor Justin Lester wrote social media assailants behavior outrageous New Zealanders lucky unparalleled access elected representatives
Members public also expressed shock One Twitter user branded attack Mr Shaw assault democracy Another said hoped attack awful one canary coal mine moment New Zealand
Bryce Edwards veteran New Zealand political commentator said downtoearth qualities commanded respect New Zealanders We like politicians one us us said
While clear whether attack politically motivated lawmakers took opportunity denounce said trend toward overthetop reactions people disagreed politicians
David Parker trade minister lawmaker centerleft Labour Party cited called extreme opinion feeding political biases causing instability people fed social media platforms
Ms Ardern stopped short saying security beefed lawmakers The episode took place innercity area Wellington minutes Ms Arderns residence
Violence New Zealand lawmakers rare The last one make global headlines recent years 2016 government minister Steven Joyce hit face sex toy thrown protester episode caused mirth fury


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur
SHANGHAI The Chinese electronics giant Huawei preparing sue United States government barring federal agencies using companys products according two people familiar matter
The lawsuit filed Eastern District Texas Huawei American headquarters according people requested anonymity discuss confidential plans The company plans announce suit week
The move could aimed forcing United States government make case Chinese equipment maker publicly It part broad push Huawei defend campaign led United States undermine company Washington sees security threat Executives spoken strongly Americas actions new marketing campaigns aimed mending companys image among consumers
For many years United States officials said Beijing could use Huaweis telecommunication equipment spy disrupt communication networks The company denied allegations major wireless carriers ATT Verizon effectively prevented using Huaweis equipment result
Over past year Washington ramped pressure firm preparing take major role construction nextgeneration wireless networks around world American officials urged governments ban use Huaweis products This year Justice Department filed criminal charges company chief financial officer connection evading American sanctions Iran
A hearing set begin week Canada determine whether companys finance chief Meng Wanzhou extradited United States face charges Ms Mengs lawyers sued Canadian government police arguing circumstances arrest detention December violated rights
Many Canadians see Ms Mengs case example foreign moneys influence Vancouver
The criminal case Ms Meng United States could complicated comments President Trump White House engaged trade negotiations China While criminal cases traditionally independent matters Mr Trump indicated Huaweis fate could bargaining chip
During meeting Oval Office delegation Chinese officials last month Mr Trump said Well making decision asked would drop criminal charges Huawei part trade deal He added Well talking attorney general
A lawsuit Huawei United States expected challenge section defense spending authorization law approved last year The provision blocks executive agencies using telecom equipment made Huawei another Chinese company ZTE
According one people familiar matter Huawei likely argue provision bill attainder legislative act singles person group punishment without trial The Constitution forbids Congress pass bills
Huaweis plans final It could still decide change course file lawsuit
The United States Embassy Beijing immediately respond request comment A call placed outside business hours United States Court House Plano Tex Huaweis American headquarters answered
China announced espionage accusations former Canadian diplomat Monday days Ms Mengs extradition hearing set take place
In many ways Huawei case echoes another company aroused security concerns United States Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab
Around two years ago American officials began expressing worries Moscow could use companys software gather intelligence The company denied allegations But September 2017 Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies begin removing companys products government systems Congress codified ban spending law
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits response arguing prohibition amounted bill attainder In May judge District Columbia dismissed suits ruling Congress motivated legitimate desire protect government computer networks Russian intrusion The judge also said Kasperskys sales American government small fraction companys business ban especially harsh
An appeals court upheld ruling months later Banning Kaspersky prophylactic punitive measure judge appeal David S Tatel wrote
Given insignificant probability Kasperskys products could compromised federal systems magnitude harm intrusion could wrought Congresss decision remove Kaspersky federal networks represents reasonable balanced response Judge Tatel wrote
Raymond Zhong reported Shanghai Paul Mozur Hong Kong Alan Rappeport contributed reporting Washington
Follow Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur Twitter zhonggg paulmozur




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Azam Ahmed Kirk Semple
MEXICO CITY Mexican officials carrying Trump administrations immigration agenda across wide stretches border undercutting Mexican governments promises defend migrants support search better life
The Mexican authorities blocking groups migrants border towns refusing allow onto international bridges apply asylum United States intercepting unaccompanied minors reach American soil helping manage lists asylum seekers behalf American authorities limit number people crossing border
Breaking decades asylum practice Mexican government also allowed Trump administration send 120 men women children Tijuana await decisions asylum applications United States The program could expanded border crossings soon next week
Officials inside administration Mexicos new president Andrés Manuel López Obrador called stance migrants strategic decision anger President Trump
He doesnt believe change Mr Trumps mind contend Furthermore officials say Mr López Obrador wanted jeopardize aspects deeply interconnected relationship two countries ranging elaborate regional trading arrangements information sharing border security transnational crime terrorism So avoided bruising potentially costly public fight issue
A lifelong defender poor Mr López Obrador often refers plans Mexico grand transformation placing ambitions nation par great leaders
He burnished everyman credentials cutting government salaries flying coach around country opening opulent presidential palace public He also vastly reduced number Central American migrants Mexico deports soil
But everything transformed
Exhibit A Migrant Protection Protocols Trump administrations policy require asylum seekers remain Mexican side border await decisions fate Rights groups contend dumps migrants increasingly violent Mexico impairs access legal counsel family support United States
Mr López Obradors administration came office saying would cooperate Mr Trumps antiimmigration agenda gone along several fronts including accepting women children despite earlier promises take adult male asylum seekers
The Mexican government argued policy requiring asylum seekers wait Mexico imposed United States consented humanitarian reasons
It also true Mr López Obrador giving Mr Trumps border demands rarely saying word American president daily press briefings carries little political cost home
Read latest edition Crossing Border limitedrun newsletter life United States Mexico meet Sign receive next issue inbox
To many Mexicans fate migrants secondary domestic concerns jobs security corruption Mr López Obrador retains 80 percent approval rating despite governments willingness take back migrants applying asylum United States
If accept handful people back Mexico thats really problem us even politically said one official authorized discuss internal deliberations What really want avoid public fight Trump
But effort avoid crossborder fight Mexican government chosen politics humanitarian ideals critics contend
Mexico continuing play role US thinks contain migrant influx period said Melissa Vertiz Hernández coordinates Working Group Immigration Policy network civil society rights groups Mexico
The delicate balance United States left Mexican government without clear consistent immigration policy Mexican states municipalities along border often position fending pressure American counterparts
In Mexican border city Reynosa instance almost one allowed cross bridge apply asylum neighboring McAllen Texas They typically blocked apprehended Mexican officials forcing migrants try luck towns
In city Piedras Negras officials rounded hundreds migrants arrived caravan recent weeks kept tight watch shelter limited access outsiders advocates say After public outcry center closed many bused cities towns along border
The mayor Ciudad Juárez meanwhile threatened sue neighboring governor shipping migrants town It become game political hot potato desperate Central Americans fleeing poverty violence caught middle
Elsewhere along border shelter officials say manage lists asylum applicants name nationality age documentation assist Mexican officials complying American border patrol mandates
The Mexican government resisting Mr Trump ways official Mr López Obradors government insisted Even acquiescing Trump administration Migrant Protection Protocols done strategically according official two others briefed plan
By allowing program start San Diego Tijuana Mexican officials argued legal challenges United States go federal courts Northern District California generally seen liberal This matters time many Americans focused beat Mr Trump 2020 elections particular leveraging MexicanAmerican vote
But many activists far confident legal challenge put end program
I think incredibly risky move said Stephanie Leutert director Mexico Security Initiative University Texas Austin I dont think put countrys foreign migratory policy hands civil society organization another country
On Feb 14 civil society organization American Civil Liberties Union several advocacy groups filed lawsuit challenging Trump administrations policy A decision temporary restraining order expected coming days
The lawsuit filed behalf 11 asylum seekers returned Mexico recent weeks accuses Trump administration violating federal international migration human rights laws
Advocates contend forcibly sending asylum seekers Tijuana Trump administration plunged unfamiliar dangerous environment lives may jeopardy
Killings Tijuana skyrocketed recent years turf war local drug market In 2018 city posted deadliest year record 2500 killings
The Trump administration first announced new policy December Jan 28 head Mexicos migration agency said Mexican government imposed restrictions enactment
But Mexican officials backed many initial restrictions including refusal accept women children Trump administration officials said plan expand program ports entry along border The López Obrador administration said little publicly changes
In Tijuana several returnees three single men single woman two mothers traveling three children described confusion dismay finding Mexico
I idea Im going survive said Yanira 34yearold migrant El Salvador feared pursued people said fleeing home country
Yanira said left El Salvador three children ages 8 11 12 local gang tried recruit middle child threatened violence unless agreed
When stepped onto Mexican soil led back across border American officials broke
I cried cried recalled
Mexican officials said provide shelter care returnees essentially leaving network community groups Tijuana elsewhere state Baja California
But shelter network extraordinary pressure almostcontinual arrival migrants traveling caravans pushed centers beyond capacity
Sister Salomé Limas social worker Instituto Madre Asunta migrant shelter Tijuana said currently housing 120 women children space designed 44
Among migrants several families seeking asylum United States returned recent weeks Trump policy
Sister Salomé said shelter house families first court date United States late March After sure
Whats going happen said We dont know
Paulina Villegas contributed reporting Mexico City
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday Want email Sign
In wake two fatal crashes involving 737 Max 8 airplane shared similarities Boeing finds prosecutors regulators inspecting development processes safety assessments
A grand jury Washington DC issued subpoena dated March 11 day Ethiopian Airlines crash seeking documents least one person involved development 737 Max jets WSJ reports
The Transportation Department inspector generals office also reportedly examining planes design certification second deadly crash
An investigation The Seattle Times found FAA delegated wide responsibility 737 Max safety assessment Boeing The resulting analysis included crucial flaws according investigation
And Bloomberg reports early seven years ago FAA employees warned Boeing much sway safety approvals new aircraft
Boeing said statement Sunday aircraft certification processes well established consistently produced safe aircraft designs It added 737 Max certification program followed FAAs standard certification process
The ridehailing company start road show IPO today New York City It wont short ambition Lyft hopes achieve valuation much 23 billion
In updated prospectus Lyft said hopes raise nearly 24 billion IPO That figure close 216 billion revenue generated last year
At high end proposed stock price 68 company would valued 23 billion That would make stakes held companys founders Logan Green John Zimmer worth hundreds millions dollars apiece The company expected price offering March 28 would trade Nasdaq next day
Lyft poised become one biggest market debuts tech company since Alibaba Groups IPO 2014 Until Uber goes public later year least
But IPO without controversy Its facing backlash investors arent happy dualclass stock structure Paul Singer head activist hedge fund Elliott Management one writing FT oped
Those insight daring found business deserve respect But sell vast majority company public allowed run forever without shareholder input Public ownership must mean public accountability
The two German lenders announced yesterday formally begin merger talks Now must convince critics combining good thing
Deutsche Bank said reviewing strategic options shoring profitability growth Christian Sewing firms CEO told employees I consistently stressed consolidation German European banking sector important topic us
The combined bank would one Europes biggest 2 trillion assets onefifth private customers Germany
Going public signals deal political backing Germanys finance minister argued country needs strong national champion compete foreign banks Here FTs list key decisionmakers deal
But opposition merger strong German unions criticized plan fearing tens thousands job cuts And Elisa Martinuzzi Bloomberg Opinion warns wouldnt fix bigger problems German banking system
The Trump administrations campaign prevent countries using Huawei equipment 5G wireless networks faltered Julian E Barnes Adam Satariano NYT write
American officials pressuring threatening nations shun Huawei The push rooted US concerns Chinese telecom companies significant security threat could help Beijing spy nations
But really working Britain Germany India United Arab Emirates signaled unlikely follow Americas lead
The US campaign criticized lack evidence American intelligence briefings reportedly failed clearly show Chinese government used Huawei steal information Read five experts two senators say whether threat Some European Asian officials also believe President Trump may fully support fight
American officials want find ways curb Huaweis rise Mr Barnes Mr Satariano write including possibly restricting American companies supplying Huawei key components needs build 5G networks across world
More Huawei built operating system smartphones computers used company longer use software developed Google Microsoft
The financial sector hasnt felt impact MeToo much industries But David Gelles NYT reports lawsuit asset manager TCW could change
Sara Tirschwell created distresseddebt fund TCW fired 2017 sued firm former boss Jess Ravich CEO David Lippman She claimed dismissal retaliation reporting sexual harassment claim Mr Ravich gender discrimination breach contract
Ms Tirschwell alleges Mr Ravich pressured sex several times tenure firm The first encounter made feel according lawsuit rejection would mean end Ravichs crucial support
TCW Mr Ravich Mr Lippman denied allegations I Saras biggest supporter TCW role decision fire Mr Ravich said
So far theres talk settlement Mr Gelles writes Days court rare movement rarer still Wall Street grievances typically dealt private wire transfer dealt
Despite delivering disappointing returns investors many CEOs saw compensation climb last year according WSJ
Median compensation 132 chief executives SP 500 companies reached 124 million 2018 117 million group 2017 WSJ calculates
Most CEOs received substantial raises median 64 percent even though December stockmarket swoon meant companies finished year posting sluggish shareholder returns
Markets pretty well companies well economy held Robin Ferracone executivepay consultant told WSJ
But also said boards may thinking forward economic slowdown adding They know theyre going bring blooms rose
The shooting mosque Christchurch New Zealand designed go viral internet What
The attack teased Twitter announced online message board 8chan broadcast live Facebook Kevin Roose NYT writes The footage replayed endlessly YouTube Twitter Reddit platforms scrambled take clips nearly fast new copies popped replace
Online extremism regular extremism steroids There offline equivalent experience algorithmically nudged toward strident version existing beliefs Mr Roose adds People become fluent culture online extremism make consume edgy memes cluster harden And one erupts
But telling terrorists trolls isnt easy tech companies Christopher Mims WSJ argues Knowing online extremists erupt act violence virtually impossible broadcasts sudden acts violence hard automatically block
More needs done We need understand address poisonous pipeline extremism emerged past several years whose ultimate effects impossible quantify clearly far big ignore Mr Roose writes Its going away particularly getting better
PGE reportedly close naming Bill Johnson outgoing head Tennessee Valley Authority next CEO
Google named Scott Beaumont head greater China Korea operations chief AsiaPacific team
Stuart Benson resigned CFO MoviePass
Princeville Capital venture capital firm invests climate technology recruited Leonardo DiCaprio adviser
Deals
Fidelity National Information Services agreed buy international payments processor Worldpay 34 billion The companies
Caesars Entertainment Eldorado Resorts reportedly early merger talks Reuters
Private equity firms like KKR CVC Capital Partners reportedly interested buying Bayers animalhealth division Bloomberg
PagerDuty popular startup alerts IT workers tech problems need fixing publicly filed IPO Business Insider
Politics policy
Investors eagerly await Treasury Departments rules investing taxadvantaged opportunity zones NYT
Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro monologue questioning Muslim lawmakers loyalty US President Trump unhappy move NYT
Cindy Yang former owner massage parlor busted prostitution ring come scrutiny political activities including donations presidents reelection campaign NYT
Brexit
Prime Minister Theresa May expected put Brexit deal third parliamentary vote week likely contingent gaining backing Democratic Unionist Party FT
Meanwhile Labour Party appears set support plan would seek public vote Mrs Mays deal approved lawmakers Reuters
Trade
The US China pushing meeting late April complete trade deal negotiators still grappling details NYT
The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska sued US Treasury Department sanctions placed last year CNBC
President Xi Jinping China starts series state visits Europe week bid bolster trade continent Bloomberg
Tech
Marc Andreessen Facebook board member reportedly met Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Chris Wylie 2016 If true would suggest understood extent companys harvesting Facebook data He denies claim Observer Business Insider
In related news academic behind Cambridge Analyticas data mining sued Facebook defamation NYT
Apple making billiondollar bet take Netflix Will work NYT
Tech investors including MeToo clauses startup deals FT
Breaking tech giants suddenly become populist concept San Francisco NYT Bloomberg
Best rest
In wake admissions scandal colleges rethinking athletic special admissions WSJ
The Fed likely say later week little appetite interest rate rises year WSJ
Why successful joint ventures turn sour Its often success breeds desire control venture sought avoid Economist
The European Central Bank unhappy EUs plans increasing supervision clearing houses FT
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Andrew Higgins Mujib Mashal
MOSCOW Thirty years last Soviet troops retreated Afghanistan Russia Tuesday reasserted player region hosting talks Taliban senior Afghan politicians aimed speeding exit another superpower time United States
The talks held Moscows President Hotel owned Kremlin offered clearer view Taliban see end 18year war In room dripping chandeliers 50 delegates many flowing robes Western suits ties nearly old sometimes violent rivals faced across large circular conference table
While Afghan politicians part delegation led former President Hamid Karzai spoke protecting hard gains past two decades Taliban denounced new Afghan Constitution lays system governance built enormous cost
The Taliban representatives also offered rare look see role women While barred women public life time power said believed womens rights including education work claim met skepticism women Afghanistan
The Moscow gathering included Taliban delegation led chief negotiator Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai represented significant contact senior Afghan politicians Taliban since United States toppled hardline Islamist group power end 2001
Absent talks however Americanbacked Afghan government President Ashraf Ghani strongly criticized meeting affront designed undermine offices authority Afghan state
Mr Ghani uncomfortable position odds American backers sees moving quickly reach deal also others countrys political elite rallying around Americanled effort
What agreeing Where implementing power Mr Ghani told Afghan channel ToloNews Tuesday dismissing talks They could hold hundred meetings Afghan government Afghan Parliament legal institutions Afghanistan approve agreements paper
The delegation headed Mr Karzai consisted entirely former officials representatives political parties many involved countrys bloody civil war current members Parliament There two women group
Afghans social media critical delegation questioning whether represented Afghanistan
Those meeting Moscow pushed aside said Khaled Abedy 31 works private company Kabul Afghan capital They want build business The country isnt important I think sort meeting cant help peace process
But Atta Muhammad Noor one Afghan politicians delegation Moscow said participants considered representative Afghanistan Mr Ghanis government
We fighting 40 years people influence Ghani said Mr Noor longtime governor Balkh Province Mr Ghani dismissed last year
Speaking sidelines event said foreign forces including around 14000 American troops must leave Afghanistan But cautioned withdrawn gradually avoid repeat chaos engulfed Afghanistan abrupt Soviet pullout 1989
The talks scheduled last two days opened week American diplomats Taliban representatives ended six days negotiations Doha capital Qatar Each side said negotiations made progress toward ending conflict began United States invaded Afghanistan 2001 long terror attacks Sept 11
Both sides said agreed principle framework two issues Taliban guarantee Afghan soil would never used terrorist groups like Al Qaeda pledge United States withdraw troops But many Afghans concerned Americans might eager strike deal
The organizer Moscow talks ostensibly Afghan diaspora Russia Russian government But Afghan officials Taliban members said Kremlin playing major role orchestrating meeting behind scenes
Russia chastened damage done Soviet Union occupation Afghanistan shown interest getting involved militarily least directly But positioned force reckoned relishing Washingtons agonies hands Taliban insurgents
Russia designated Taliban terrorist organization 2003 first strongly supported American efforts purge Afghanistan extremist Islamist groups President Vladimir V Putin described threat Russias security
But amid rising Cold Warstyle rivalry Moscow Washington Russia hedged bets opening channels Taliban Moscow allowed 10member delegation Taliban still officially barred terrorists enter Russia Moscow talks
On Tuesday Afghanistan violence continued unabated The Taliban attacked police army outposts around northern city Kunduz dawn killing least 23 members Afghan security forces In Takhar Province gunmen attacked womens radio station killing two staff members
Mr Karzai made appeal end bloodshed saying Afghan soldiers Taliban fighters buried next
All around graveyards regular Afghans graves plenty Mr Karzai said The dream every mother hope every father buried
Mr Karzai first installed Afghanistans leader United States late 2001 relationship soured He visited Russia often since leaving office 2014 meetings Mr Putin officials aligned Moscows view United States must leave Afghanistan Soviet Union
Mr Stanekzai Talibans chief negotiator said speech lasting half hour group seek monopolize power inside Afghanistan He said pursuing Islamist government consultation Afghans group recognize countrys current Constitution calling copied West
Perhaps revealing part speech came described Talibans view future role Afghan women When power group sent religious police patrol streets giving lashes women among things showing ankles
We committed rights given women Islam Mr Stanekzai said Islam given women fundamental rights trade ownership inheritance education work choice partner security education good life
Considering groups history Afghan women immediately questioned statements sincerity
But Fawzia Koofi female member Afghan Parliament one two women attendance said happy heard Taliban promise women would stripped rights would allowed serve prime minister though president
However cautioned We gained much last 18 years whatever problems want go back Taliban period
Andrew Higgins reported Moscow Mujib Mashal Kabul Afghanistan Najim Rahim contributed reporting MazariSharif Afghanistan Fahim Abed Fatima Faizi Kabul Taimoor Shah Kandahar Afghanistan




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Christine Hauser
It like online matchmaking service Horse lovers want adopt wild mustang western United States browse dozens headshots
From dropdown menus choose gender color age 4yearold chestnut mare example 9yearold gray gelding Some horses training others might gentled experience handled
This Wild Horses Online part federal Bureau Land Managements online adoption service Starting month bureau trying make wild mustang adoptions attractive paying 1000 take animals gathered public land western United States part efforts manage population
The adoption program began March 12 intended encourage potential owners take leap adopting wild horses whose access pasture water challenged factors including rising population droughts said Deborah Collins bureaus outreach officer
Ms Collins said government hoped people would take fresh look owning wild horse say I got little help I go find trainer
The program first incentive type Bureau Land Management offered since Wild FreeRoaming Horses Burros Act 1971 detailed agencys duties legal custodian wild horses burros United States
Previously people adopted wild mustang paying 125 Now paid 500 front receive 500 balance prove owned animal responsibly year Ms Collins said
Carrie Jim Pacileo Powell Wyo drove six hours March 15 adoption event Rock Springs The couple already adopted two mustangs one completely trained partly trained wanted
I told husband I wanted try train completely wild Ms Pacileo said
They came home two mustangs 9monthold Remmi 11monthold Stormy
Being younger thought maybe would easier Ms Pacileo said
She said money receive adopting horses would invested equipment hay production 40 acres
I wanted like ultimate symbol America said
More 66000 wild horses 15000 burros roam 26 million acres 10 states bureaus latest data shows The ideal level populations combined 26690 according bureau
The challenge bureau balance population animals available resources public private lands Some found rambling along highways foraging backyards discovered open range emaciated dying thirst Ms Collins said
The main method population control simply move From July February helicopters chase wild horses corrals facilities made available adoption sold adopted
Last year 11000 horses burros removed public lands nearly decade bureau figures show As last month 50000 horses available adoption corrals offrange pastures longterm Ms Collins said
Some bureaus measures attracted controversy use helicopters chase animals removal horses open range primary method population control Some worried wild horses could end slaughterhouses abroad
The American Wild Horse Campaign advocacy group said statement criticizing bureauss new adoption program agency employ population control measures fertility methods The BLM adopt way situation faces stockpiling 50000 horses holding facilities said Suzanne Roy groups executive director
Ms Collins said bureau tried fertility measures including sending volunteers administer birth control vaccinations mares wild But effects vaccinations last year 18 months results adequately addressed overpopulation said
The bureaus push make adoptions enticing focused training The agency working nonprofit Mustang Heritage Foundation started Extreme Mustang Makeover national competition trainers 100 days turn wild mustang wellbehaved steed
Wild mustangs also trained federal prisons rehabilitation programs coordinated bureau
The 1000 adoption payout costs bureau half would keep animal year Ms Collins said For owners mustangs cost less keep breeds thoroughbreds quarter horses said Mary Santagata adopts buys mustangs All Kings Horses rescue organization Northford Conn
Adopted mustangs current vaccinations Ms Santagata said annual veterinary care could cost 300 problems About 50 every eight 10 weeks goes toward hooves professionally trimmed Many owners feed mustangs hay similar diet open range rather expensive grain hay said
They hardy Ms Santagata said They built survive
Other costs include adapting corrals sixfoothigh paneled fencing wild horses escape providing opensided sheds enter need shelter easily led
The expensive part owning wild horse Ms Santagata said paying experienced trainers At 41 around horses life said could handle basic gentling wild mustang When horses corrals uses soft opening approaching retreating get accustomed
You walk around see reacts said I mustangs would look months
She gradually introduces halters led around able accomplish three months said For advanced skills like riding sends mustangs professionals grown know
I look like I adopting living legend Ms Santagata said They mystical creature wild lucky ones find




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Casey
BOGOTÁ Colombia Jorge Ramos news anchor television network Univision said detained Venezuelan government confrontational interview President Nicolás Maduro Monday evening Miraflores Palace Caracas
He didnt like things asking lack democracy Venezuela torture political prisoners Mr Ramos recounted Univision broadcast said released government
Mr Ramos said detained two hours let go allowed return hotel He said government confiscated crews equipment including phones memory cards
We dont anything said They interviews
On Monday night Kimberly Breier assistant secretary state Western Hemisphere State Department said Mr Ramos detained called government release immediately
The world watching wrote Twitter
Venezuelas government dispute account Mr Ramos temporarily held appeared lay blame anchor
We dont lend cheap shows said Jorge Rodríguez government communications minister
He added Hundreds journalists come received decent treatment always give journalistic work
Mr Ramos Mexicoborn American journalist known confrontational questions particularly leaders attacked press In 2015 tangled Donald J Trump presidential candidate news conference Mr Trump eventually guards force room
Go back Univision Mr Trump said
Univision largest Spanishlanguage television network United States
Mr Maduro recently stuck friendly interviews state television outlets
But since current crisis faces major challenge Venezuelas opposition whose leader Juan Guaidó also claims presidency Mr Maduro conducted number interviews international media outlets including BBC Eurovision ABC also conducted interview Monday
In ABC interview Mr Maduro defended criticism blocking aid shipments opposition White House demanded let pass Venezuelas borders Colombia Brazil
Everything United States government done doomed failure Mr Maduro said Theyre trying fabricate crisis justify political escalation military intervention Venezuela bring war South America
Mr Ramos said showing images children eating dumpster Mr Maduro common sight Venezuela president presided shortages food medicine
He got interview Mr Ramos said Immediately afterward one ministers Jorge Rodríguez came say interview wasnt authorized
Then Mr Ramos said detained
Later Monday night Mr Ramos writes column syndicated New York Times Licensing Group told Reuters crew would deported Tuesday


video

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Best Late Night
By Giovanni Russonello
Welcome Best Late Night rundown previous nights highlights lets sleep lets us get paid watch comedy If youre interested hearing The Times regularly great TV sign Watching newsletter get recommendations straight inbox
Stephen Colbert admitted hes happy see President Trump Congress apparently nearing border security deal would help avert government shutdown But said wished could press reset political conversation
Were supposed care whether Trump Nancy lost Trump caved Nancys dancing end zone said But nothing nothing happened government 2019 affected anyone Wheres infrastructure bill Wheres immigration bill Wheres fix health care We celebrating supposed celebrating theyre close deal achieve absolute minimum government
Colbert pointed reports preparations possible border wall already damaged butterfly habitats Texas He argued Trump ought sympathy insects
After hes got lot common butterflies Theyre fragile creatures bright iridescent coloring paperthin skin Its Trump never left larval stage STEPHEN COLBERT
Colbert also tweaked Democrats showed clip Representative Nita Lowey insisting lawmakers agreed fund partial barrier wall
Oh wall barrier A clinching legal argument first made landmark case Potato v Potato STEPHEN COLBERT
Jimmy Kimmel isnt excited recent news sequel film Frozen come fall
Just Baby Shark songs finally starting get heads theres new batch Frozen songs way For dont kids Frozen streetlegal drug children thats 10 times addictive Paw Patrol gummy worms combined In one Disney finally answer question What made bunch money JIMMY KIMMEL
Trevor Noah excited Howard Schultzs middleoftheroad potential candidacy He criticized Schultz former chief executive Starbucks saying CNN town hall doesnt see race
It would like How going solve black unemployment And guy would like What mean black unemployment All I see staggering unemployment among people named Jamal Anyway February happy History Month TREVOR NOAH
Tomorrow Valentines Day St Valentine course patron saint seasonal marketing STEPHEN COLBERT
Tomorrow Auntie Annes offering special heartshaped pretzels Its great deal hopeless romantics taking dates La Guardia JIMMY FALLON
Samantha Bee went bat ambitious Green New Deal plan Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez unveiled month
On Conan Kay Jewelers Tinder Collection featured bejeweled inscriptions Please Dont Murder Me Whats Your Last Name
Bradley Cooper director star A Star Is Born The Late Show Thursday With Oscars 10 days away anticipation probably hang air
Aubrey Plaza hosting Film Independent Spirit Awards month Shes diehard fan independent cinema looking forward bringing back intimate vibe awards show televised
Plus Ideas What Watch Tonight
The 50 Best Movies Netflix Right Now
The 25 Best Films 21st Century
The Best Movies Amazon Prime Video Right Now
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Declan Walsh
CAIRO President Omar Hassan alBashir Sudan imposed yearlong state emergency dissolved federal state governments Friday attempt end months nationwide street protests shaken authority three decades rule
In televised address broadcast live presidential palace Khartoum Mr alBashir declared state emergency disbanded federal government replaced state governors military generals
Mr alBashir also said pausing ending effort amend Sudans constitution could run third term office current one ends 2020
Reuters citing presidential statement reported Friday night Mr alBashir appointed caretaker administration leaving current defense foreign justice ministers place
In speech acknowledged economic hardship triggered first protests December said protest movement hijacked elements agendas achieve zero sum scenarios
Mr alBashir wanted International Criminal Court charges war crimes ruled Sudan iron fist decades immediate implications state emergency unclear It seemed signal hardening attitude toward protests led young professionals angered economic decay corruption become hallmarks Mr alBashirs rule
The demonstrations first began Dec 19 town Atbara focused soaring bread prices They quickly grew movement calling ouster president near daily protests spreading cities across country
The protesters come across Sudanese society including sections shrinking upper middle class withered countrys precipitous economic slide Soaring fuel prices caused factories close youth employment stands 27 percent according World Bank estimates
Our country passing difficult complicated phase national history Mr alBashir said speech Friday
He blamed external factors collapse protesters say stems decades kleptocratic incompetent rule Their frequent chant marches riot police arrive tear gas sometimes bullets Just fall
Protest leaders say 1000 people arrested crackdown led feared National Intelligence Security Service Internet access restricted effort block social media posts used mostly young protesters organize demonstrations
The government said 31 people died protestrelated violence Human Rights Watch put toll 51 people killed since midDecember
On Friday Mr alBashir stumbled several times read speech In attempt mollify protesters offered prayers killed announced plans economic reform new government yet fully formed He invited opposition move forward engage dialogue regarding current issues country
In recent years Mr alBashir fired marginalized potential rivals power little long rule suggests new willingness rapprochement
Mr alBashir came power military coup 1989 since Sudan endured famines American missile strikes isolation civil war led independence South Sudan 2011 Two years International Criminal Court ordered Mr alBashir arrested charges played essential role atrocities including murder rape torture displacement civilians conflict Darfur region Sudan
In 2017 United States lifted sanctions Sudan relief failed stem steep economic decline Mr alBashir lobbied State Department remove Sudan list state sponsors terrorism factor countrys economic woes
Before televised address Sudans intelligence chief Salah Abdallah Gosh told reporters Mr alBashir would announce resignation head ruling National Congress Party
But Mr alBashir said nothing speech party activists fear state emergency could presage even harsher measures movement
In immediate aftermath speech however demonstrators appeared undeterred Videos posted social media suggested protests rule continued Khartoum



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ceylan Yeginsu
Britains chancellor Exchequer Philip Hammond delivered statement countrys economy Wednesday something fiscal nonevent specter Britains withdrawal European Union Brexit hanging every economic projection
Mr Hammonds main message could deliver funds public spending British Parliament reaches deal Brexit came day lawmakers rejected Prime Minister Theresa Mays plan large margin
With Mrs May sitting behind Mr Hammond conspicuously called lawmakers put aside differences seek compromise Brexit something neither prime minister Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn yet accepted
Higher unemployment lower wages higher prices shops That British people voted June 2016 said referring 2016 referendum leave European Union
Here five takeaways chancellors spring statement
The uncertainty surrounding Brexit slowdown global economy cut growth 2019 12 percent 16 percent projected last years autumn budget
The British economy set grow 14 percent 2020 16 percent following two years according official forecasts independent Office Budget Responsibility
One bright spot wage growth revised upward least 3 percent year work force expanding 600000 2023 Mr Hammond said
With public sector borrowing trending Mr Hammond pledged increase Brexit dividend 266 billion pounds 35 billion comes catch British lawmakers would vote pronto leave European Union deal
In statement Office Budget Responsibility attributed improved fiscal climate higher income tax receipts lower expected interest costs
Once Mr Hammond hedged good news familiar caveat Parliament first agree deal Brexit
A smooth Brexit see deal dividend economic boost free resources schools police social care areas suffered significantly decade budget cuts conservative governments austerity policy
Analysts quick point government making promises time promised spending increases failed materialize
The repeated promise austerity coming end ring hollow millions low wage disabled unemployed people see social security tax credits frozen another year April Dr MaryAnn Stephenson director Womens Budget Group said Wednesday
The government fund free sanitary products secondary schools colleges England response concerns girls missing school afford buy products Mr Hammond said
The announcement comes twoyear campaign started Amika George 19 read reports schoolgirls northern city Leeds using newspaper socks toilet paper could afford sanitary products would sometimes miss school avoid embarrassment
Its definitely really huge number Ms George said phone interview This isnt small minority people affecting Its definitely prevalent something government needs take action
Knife crime rose fourth straight year 2018 hotbutton issue days To help address additional 100 million pounds 130 million made available police forces across England Wales help tackle knife crime risen fourth consecutive year
Police funding England Wales fell 19 percent 201011 201819 National Audit Office says
The extra funding spent additional overtime targeted knife crime new violent crime reduction units Mr Hammond said
The announcement falls short 200 300 million pounds 260 million 390 million requested National Police Chiefs Council last week




Advertisement
Sophisticated surveillance domain world powers increasingly available private market Smaller countries seizing tools sometimes darker purposes
NSO private company based Herzliya Israel hired former government hackers ply trades foreign governmentsCreditCreditCorinna Kern The New York Times
Supported
By Mark Mazzetti Adam Goldman Ronen Bergman Nicole Perlroth
The man charge Saudi Arabias ruthless campaign stifle dissent went searching ways spy people saw threats kingdom He knew go secretive Israeli company offering technology developed former intelligence operatives
It late 2017 Saud alQahtani top adviser Saudi Arabias powerful crown prince tracking Saudi dissidents around world part extensive surveillance efforts ultimately led killing journalist Jamal Khashoggi In messages exchanged employees company NSO Group Mr alQahtani spoke grand plans use surveillance tools throughout Middle East Europe like Turkey Qatar France Britain
The Saudi governments reliance firm Israel adversary decades offers glimpse new age digital warfare governed rules growing economy valued 12 billion spies hire
Today even smallest countries buy digital espionage services enabling conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping influence campaigns preserve major powers like United States Russia Corporations want scrutinize competitors secrets wealthy individual beef rival also command intelligence operations price akin purchasing offtheshelf elements National Security Agency Mossad
For stories changing nature warfare sign weekly At War newsletter
NSO competitor Emirati firm DarkMatter exemplify proliferation privatized spying A monthslong examination The New York Times based interviews current former hackers governments private companies others well review documents uncovered secret skirmishes burgeoning world digital combat
The firms enabled governments hack criminal elements like terrorist groups drug cartels also cases act darker impulses targeting activists journalists Hackers trained United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople human rights workers net Cybermercenaries working DarkMatter turned prosaic household item baby monitor spy device
The FBI investigating current former American employees DarkMatter possible cybercrimes according four people familiar investigation The inquiry intensified former NSA hacker working company grew concerned activities contacted FBI Reuters reported
NSO DarkMatter also compete fiercely paying handsomely lure top hacking talent Israel United States countries sometimes pilfering recruits The Times found
The Middle East epicenter new era privatized spying Besides DarkMatter NSO Black Cube private company run former Mossad Israeli military intelligence operatives gained notoriety Harvey Weinstein disgraced Hollywood mogul hired dig dirt accusers PsyGroup Israeli company specializing social media manipulation worked Russian oligarchs 2016 pitched Trump campaign plan build online army bots avatars swing Republican delegate votes
Last year wealthy American businessman Elliott Broidy sued government Qatar New York firm run former CIA officer Global Risk Advisors said sophisticated breach company led thousands emails spilling public Mr Broidy said operation motivated hardnosed geopolitics At beginning Trump administration pushed White House adopt antiQatar policies time firm poised receive hundreds millions dollars contracts United Arab Emirates archrival Qatar
A judge dismissed Mr Broidys lawsuit suspicions grown Qatar hand operations including hacking leaking emails Yousef alOtaiba influential Emirati ambassador Washington
The rapid expansion global hightech battleground armies cybermercenaries clash prompted warnings dangerous chaotic future
Even smallest country low budget offensive capability initiate online attacks adversaries said Robert Johnston founder cybersecurity firm Adlumin key investigator Russias 2016 hacking Democratic National Committee Qatar UAE going war getting bloody
The barriers entry space getting lower lower
Before NSO helped Saudi government track adversaries outside kingdom helped Mexican government hunt drug kingpins earned hundreds millions dollars working dozens countries six continents company consisted two high school friends northern Israel one relatively mundane idea
Using technology developed graduates Intelligence Unit 8200 Israels equivalent NSA Shalev Hulio Omri Lavie started company 2008 allowed cellphone firms gain remote access customers devices perform maintenance
Word spread Western spy services whose operatives spotted opportunity At time American European officials warning Apple Facebook Google tech giants developing technologies allowed criminals terrorists communicate encrypted channels indecipherable intelligence law enforcement agencies They called phenomenon going dark
Mr Hulio Mr Lavie offered way circumvent problem hacking end points communications phones data decrypted
By 2011 NSO developed first prototype mobile surveillance tool company called Pegasus Like namesake Greek mythological winged horse NSOs tool could something seemingly impossible collect vast amounts previously inaccessible data smartphones air without leaving trace including phone calls texts emails contacts location data transmitted apps like Facebook WhatsApp Skype
Once companies invade phone Youre carrying around Avi Rosen Kaymera Technologies Israeli cyberdefense company said NSO competitors
The company soon first client Pegasus government Mexico engaged crackdown drug cartels By 2013 NSO installed Pegasus three Mexican agencies according emails obtained The Times The emails estimated altogether firm sold Mexican government 15 million worth hardware software Mexico paying firm 77 million track wide array targets every move swipe phone
NSO products important Mexicos war cartels according four people familiar Mexican government used Pegasus speaking condition anonymity discuss intelligence matters Mexican officials credited Pegasus instrumental helping track capture El Chapo famed drug kingpin convicted last month New York sentenced life maximumsecurity prison
Soon enough NSO selling governments throughout world company claiming clients every continent except Antarctica NSO products particularly Pegasus helped break terrorist cells aided investigations organized crime child abduction European intelligence law enforcement officials said interviews
NSOs first client Mexican government also using hacking tools darker purposes part broader government industry surveillance effort The government used NSO products track least two dozen journalists government critics international investigators looking unsolved disappearance 43 students even backers soda tax according Times investigations research Citizen Lab part University Toronto
Those targets subjected stream harassing text messages contained malware Some messages warned spouses affairs others relative passed away In one case government officials able infiltrate phone journalist targeted 16yearold sons
Though NSO says sells services criminal antiterrorism investigations none Mexicans known targeted suspected criminal terrorism investigations
NSO technology helped stop vicious crimes deadly terrorist attacks around world company said statement We tolerate misuse products regularly vet review contracts ensure used anything prevention investigation terrorism crime
The company established ethics committee decides whether sell spyware countries based human rights records reported global organizations like World Banks human capital index indicators NSO would sell Turkey example poor record human rights current former employees said
But World Bank index Turkey ranks higher Mexico Saudi Arabia NSO clients A spokesman Israels Ministry Defense needs authorize contract NSO wins foreign government declined answer questions company
A lawsuit alleged last year months death Saudi Arabia used NSO products spy Mr Khashoggi Washington Post columnist strangled dismembered October Saudi operatives inside kingdoms consulate Istanbul NSO denies accusation Several Mr Khashoggis closest contacts targets NSO hacking tools Citizen Lab reported Without access Mr Khashoggis devices researchers confirmed whether direct target NSO surveillance
Even cases blatant abuse NSO continued renew contracts government clients In 2013 instance NSO inked first deal United Arab Emirates Within year Emirati government caught installing NSO spyware mobile phone Ahmed Mansoor prominent human rights activist
After receiving onslaught text messages containing links Mr Mansoor frequent target Emirati surveillance grew suspicious passed texts security researchers determined links NSO lures exploited vulnerabilities Apple software take Mr Mansoors phone It researchers said sophisticated spyware ever uncovered mobile device
The discovery forced Apple release emergency patch But Mr Mansoor already fired job passport confiscated car stolen email hacked location tracked bank account emptied 140000 beaten strangers twice week
You start believe every move watched Your family starts panic said interview arrested 2017 I live
Even UAE caught spying Mr Mansoor leaked invoices showed NSO continued sell Emiratis millions dollars worth spyware services As Mr Mansoor sentenced 10 years prison damaging national unity held solitary confinement health deteriorating
A flurry news reports followed countries using NSO products spy citizens prompting company temporarily rebrand Q James Bonds gadget guru
Despite bad news coverage NSOs value continued skyrocket
Francisco Partners private equity firm purchased 70 percent stake NSO 130 million 2013 Last month NSOs cofounders raised enough money buy back majority stake NSO valuation 1 billion The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed deal making major investors including Oregon state employees pension fund Alaskas sovereign wealth fund part owners NSO according public records
The proliferation companies trying replicate NSOs success compete estimated 12 billion market socalled lawful intercept spyware set fierce competition hire American Israeli Russian veterans worlds sophisticated intelligence agencies companies poach talent one another
In late 2017 NSO executives grew concerned spate resignations Private detectives hired investigate soon found Mediterranean island Cyprus tailing group former NSO employees veterans Israels Intelligence Unit 8200 going back forth work research facility
The building owned company affiliated DarkMatter Emirati firm quietly hired Israelis develop technologies UAE conduct cyberoperations perceived enemies home abroad
DarkMatter also offices inside gleaming tower highway connecting Abu Dhabi Dubai building houses UAEs Signals Intelligence Agency Emirates version NSA
This accident DarkMatter effectively arm state worked directly Emirati intelligence operatives numerous missions hacking government ministries Turkey Qatar Iran spying dissidents inside Emirates
DarkMatter origins another company American firm called CyberPoint years ago contracts UAE help protect Emirates computer attacks CyberPoint obtained license American government work Emiratis necessary step intended regulate export military intelligence services Many companys employees worked highly classified projects NSA American intelligence agencies
But Emiratis outsize ambitions repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees exceed boundaries companys American license CyberPoint rebuffed requests Emirati intelligence operatives try crack encryption codes hack websites housed American servers operations would run afoul American law
So 2015 Emiratis founded DarkMatter forming company bound United States law lured least halfdozen American employees CyberPoint join Marc Baier former official NSA unit carries advanced offensive cyberoperations became one firms top executives
DarkMatter employed several former NSA CIA officers according roster employees obtained The Times making salaries hundreds thousands dollars year
The assumption used left NSA youd never kind offensive work Now clearly market said Mr Johnston security expert He worked militarys Cyber Command works closely NSA serving Marines
The NSA consider responsibility ensure hacking techniques taught employees used United States said
The company respond request comment spokesman Emirati government Asked whether ministry given license former Israeli intelligence operatives working DarkMatter spokesman Israeli Ministry Defense declined comment A lawyer Mr Baier also declined comment
Current former employees spy agency lifelong obligation protect United States secrets said Greg Julian spokesman NSA They also required report employment representation foreign governments two years leave agency said
Besides breaches foreign government ministries DarkMatter also broke Gmail Yahoo Hotmail accounts according former employees DarkMatter operatives posed family friends people targeted lure opening emails contained malware
Former employees said DarkMatter targeted Mr Mansoor hacking childs baby monitor eavesdrop family In another operation companys operatives pursued Rori Donaghy British activist critical Emirati government human rights record also target NSO spyware DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab Canadian research organization former employee said
DarkMatter told employees spying American citizens would limits proved empty pledge
In one operation previously reported DarkMatter subsidiary began expansive effort intercept cellular communications Qatar occasionally catching communications Americans surveillance net late 2015 One American working project said raised concerns superiors including former CIA officer charge effort The American along another pulled project asked sign nondisclosure agreement
In repeated instances DarkMatter collected information Americans second former employee said Most cases involved Americans worked foreign organizations including human rights groups DarkMatter targeted critical Emirati government former employee said
DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information applications résumés belonging Americans applied work organizations One former employee said collection accidental records expunged companys databases
In 2017 former NSA hacker began providing FBI agents information companys activities according Reuters report Foreign Policy first reported FBI investigation
The informant Lori Stroud said become concerned companys surveillance Americans She later left firm along several Americans could sure DarkMatter deliberately targeting citizens Soon FBI agents began stopping American employees airports entered United States questioned DarkMatters operations according former company employees
The Justice Departments case run prosecutors Washington focuses internet fraud possibly illegal transfer spying technology foreign country
But prosecutors face headwinds including diplomatic concerns jeopardizing United States relationship UAE influential country developed close ties Trump administration worries pursuing case could expose embarrassing details extent cooperation DarkMatter American intelligence agencies
And reality American laws governing new age digital warfare murky outdated illequipped address rapid technological advances The rules governing American intelligence military personnel provide foreign governments meant keep leash 20thcentury warfare selling missiles planes overseas training foreign forces Army tactics
But address hacking skills honed front laptop worlds advanced intelligence agencies sold highest bidder
The worst part weapons easier get said Brian Bartholomew principal security researcher Kaspersky Lab digital security company
Youve got lot people entering arena new dont play rules said Its like putting militarygrade weapon hands someone street
An earlier version article misattributed source valuation market socalled lawful intercept spyware The 12 billion market estimate cited Moodys originated company NSO Moodys
Scott Shane contributed reporting




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ashley Powers
One day 2015 Barbara Lavenders husband returned UFO conference handed business card It bore red theatercurtain background vintage microphone goldandwhite lettering read Sean David Morton Radio Host Public Speaker Author Director Screen Writer Actor The polymathic Mr Morton Jeff Lavender told wife UFO royalty
Mr Morton spent years whisking ETobsessed tourists Area 51 99 pop leveraged following stints weehours conspiracy show Coast Coast AM one point nations No 3 talkradio program He dabbled fringe arts remote viewing psychic predictions earthquakes elections stock market But time Mr Lavender saw talk Southern California Mr Morton shifted something truly fantastical instant debt relief
Hed peddling workshop called The Sovereign Factor The Revolution Starts With You nod known sovereign citizens movement A loose network perhaps tens thousands farright antigovernment extremists sovereigns share certain conspiratorial beliefs sometimes desire profit government whose legitimacy deny
Do realize read Mr Mortons workshop description ALL considered Incompetent Wards State Residents Chattel Property US Federal government declare Emancipation Learn secrets get government back life One secrets called bond process By submitting right set papers Mr Morton said could wipe mortgage tax bills student loans
Mr Mortons message appeal beyond tinfoilhat crowd In America Great Recession plenty people upsidedown mortgages student debt inclined believe anyone offering help Ms Lavender listening husband recap workshop intrigued Years earlier shed borrowed 48000 help son attend college She husband worked mortgage industry Southern California decades educational debt unfamiliar terrain I never gone college told recently I took loan I shouldnt Ms Lavender lost job deferred payments interest kept piling By time held Mr Mortons business card hands owed 70000
She realized UFO gathering unusual venue debtrelief advice Her husbands annual gettogethers XFiles crowd hobby goodnatured punch line family But size intractability loan balance weighed also trusted husband thought Mr Mortons bond process worth checking She told I think probably enticed might little tiny kick pants government
As Lavenders came discover sovereign fraudsters snakeoil salesmen time Peddling bouquet grifts varied tax fraud real estate scams prey suspicion institutions financial illiteracy greed despair You dont even buy sovereign dogma get swindled You need Ms Lavender debt From 1990 2013 farright extremists carried 600 financial schemes resulted criminal charges according researchers run US Extremist Financial Crime Database affiliated National Consortium Study Terrorism Responses Terrorism clearinghouse kind
That adds conservatively public losses 1 billion The majority perpetrators either sovereigns ideological cousins tax defiers Fraud crossburning white supremacists expression belief
Sovereigns sometimes call freemen state citizens foundational document broadly subscribe alternate version American history The tale vary sovereign sovereign goes roughly like At point corporation secretly usurped United States government went bankrupt sought aid international bankers As collateral corporation offered financiers us As sovereigns tell birth certificate Social Security card benign documents contracts enslave
There believe pathway freedom Renounce contracts otherwise assert sovereignty Mr Morton said told Social Security Administration I dont want number Then one taxman police tell Not sovereigns con men belief system lends deceit You might declare diplomat nonexistent country Mr Morton represented Republic New Lemuria Dominion Melchizedek Or start fake Native American tribe Or blow court case American flag courtroom gold fringe Some sovereigns even lashed violently law enforcement officers theyre considered domestic terrorism threat
Many sovereign myths hark back creation 1913 Federal Reserve It weird complicated instrument controlling monetary system People saw sinister author J M Berger told In recent paper Mr Berger traced circulation ideas part company named Omni Publications something like Infowars middle 20th century One Omni title The Federal Reserve Conspiracy claimed enemy aliens infiltrated banking system biographies could found Whos Who American Jewry Sovereign lore often rooted antiSemitism By 1970s intellectual father sovereign citizen movement William Potter Gale helped spread type falsehood larger audience
The founder antigovernment group Posse Comitatus Mr Gale aligned emerging movement tax protesters argued instance paying taxes form involuntary servitude In turn introduced warped version America patriots establish legal system hang defy Mr Gales specific gift wrapping nonsense enough legalese sounded real If movement offers essentially lot magic words say get trouble thats going really appeal people desperate angry Mr Berger said Mr Gales outreach success Over time line thousands tax protesters Posse members blurred
Take redemption theory popularized part Gale associate Remember corporationslashfakegovernment used us collateral According sovereign lore means government set secret accounts names Some believe contain oddly specific amount 630000 To clear pure fantasy according Internal Revenue Service
One way sovereigns try make imaginary money real abusing legitimate IRS forms Lawabiding taxpayers use Form 1099OID example report original issue discount income But sovereigns write fake OID income fake withholding order claim illegitimate refunds If file return risk least large fine Yet 2012 2014 according Treasury Inspector General Tax Administration IRS received close 7000 sham OID filings
Chronically underfunded understaffed IRS investigators refer two dozen sovereignscam cases average prosecution year The agency sometimes misses returns raise suspicion For example 2016 IRS discovered sizable redemption scheme processing 207 bogus returns disbursing 43 million Thats another reason strange theories persist begun leach sovereign network general population Sometimes improbably work
Mr Morton born 1958 comfortable childhood Northern California tutorial make sales pitch His mother Maureen Kennedy Salaman San Francisco magazine described millionaire evangelical alternativemedicine fanatic promoted questionable cancer treatments
She also member John Birch Society farright group known paranoid anticommunism stockpiled beans grains ammunition case Russian invasion In 1984 chosen vicepresidential nominee Populist Party favorite white supremacists Its presidential candidate following cycle former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke In acceptance speech warned crowd Were evil powerful conspiracy world ever known
When Mr Morton reached adulthood sold unorthodox beliefs behind suburbandad veneer flop dark hair round cleanshaven face buttondownandkhakis wardrobe He charismatic also childlike friends said ego easily bruised He branded investigative reporter within UFO world 1990s Mr Morton appeared The Montel Williams Show made outrageous claims 100 alien species visited Earth certainty Nobel laureate I got close enough one things floating around desert actually get face burned said
Even UFO enthusiasts considered kook Mr Mortons fans didnt care The truth Sean David Morton Branding prophet plumbed newage convention circuit alongside specialists animal telepathy chakras hauntings angelic gemstone messages afterlife Near end millennium convention Las Vegas blueeyed reddishhaired woman approached Back Utah Melissa Thomson grown Mormon home married 22 worked banking spare time doted pedigreed cats even serving treasurer local Cat Fanciers group The Coast Coast program escape spent hours fangirling Mr Morton frequent guest
At Las Vegas convention Ms Thomson apparently one goal meet idol It love first sight Mr Morton said She soon left husband joined Mr Morton Southern California Her oldest brother Robert told The found warned Melissa decent person But promised movie roles theyll inherit Mommys home Atherton condo Tahoe All could see dollars When got married family refused attend
Through lawyer Ms Morton declined comment Mr Morton respond multiple requests comment although said YouTube last fall The New York Times conducting massive smear campaign Unless otherwise noted quotes article court records
The Mortons lived Hermosa Beach surf spot 20 miles downtown Los Angeles Next minipalaces oatmealcolored apartment building resembled servants quarters short stroll Pacific Ocean Mr Morton welcomed new wifes bushytailed Norwegian forest cats new litter arrived dozen scampered around apartment turn oversaw administrative side Sean David Morton He shilled conspiracy fiction The Dark Prophet Veil AntiChrist CDs Everything You Wanted Know About Future Vol 2 65 newsletter thousands subscribers TOMORROWS HEADLINES TODAY
Either wasnt particularly lucrative wasnt lucrative enough replicate Mr Mortons childhood wealth From outside hard tell He always asking try help something could raise money said Susan Shumsky fellow fixture newage circuit Like Lets trip Peru I money Lets teleseminar I make money Ms Mortons pedigreed kittens sold hundreds dollars apparently kept solvent At various points also dogwalked worked Disneyland Their friend Will Chappell said It leading charge leading family She necessary accomplish goals
Early relationship website called UFO Watchdog Exposing Parasites Delusional Personalities Morons Frauds Currently Clouding UFO Issue dismantled much Mr Mortons official biography Mr Morton sued case dismissed But email included case file Ms Morton waved findings I would concerned Sean DIDNT critics Some greatest people history people attacking every step It means Sean something right trying make difference world
By 2006 couple expecting windfall Ms Salaman poor health died Mr Morton assumed hed inherit mothers fortune But relationship already frosty iced final weeks Ms Salaman didnt even want son wife visit She cut even kept 100000 trust Great Dane Duke
They went berserk Ms Mortons brother recalled Its scam scam scam
While sovereign citizen movement inherently organized members firmament become known gurus vectors spreading ideology Mr Morton often lectured Living Temple new age shop south Hermosa Beach The owner favored black Tshirt five flying saucers admonition KEEP LOOKING UP yoga music ommed clutter apothecary bottles bags herbal something miraclecleanse guidebooks cropcircle DVDs
One day likely 2008 man named Brandon Adams started showing Like Mr Morton budding sovereign amplifier much younger untucked buttondowns looked like attempt playing dressup His family ran local taxprep business His whole thing banks Mr Morton said later What considered great criminal conspiracy Internal Revenue Service banking cartels Mr Morton quickly got speaking slot
Some Mr Adamss talks recorded Pacing front dozen people scribbling phrases stick figures whiteboard wove dark tale The secret bankruptcy The peopleascollateral Then twist The banks skimming money fractionalizing every transaction make He told group could reclaim funds via Form 1099OID
From folding chair Mr Morton looking grayer rounder Montel Williams days asked Mr Adams anyone really gotten big refund way Yes Mr Adams said The funny thing watch quiet people start get theyre sure process start getting returns Laughter Theyve got mentality Im going say I got two hundred fifty grand
The audience lapped This America financial crisis The banks bailed homeowners era Tea Party rallies Occupy Wall Street encampments imminent It wasnt much leap suspect Washington cahoots likes JP Morgan Mr Adamss Living Temple talks drew large enough crowds moved bigger venue sold private coaching 200 hour It became movement really Mr Morton said Mr Adams respond multiple requests comment
In spring 2009 Mr Adamss tutelage Mortons tried OID scheme Mr Morton filed four years returns 2005 2008 claimed nearly 4 million refunds His wife filed 2007 return claimed 12000 I never ever ever thought I breaking law Mr Morton later said I thought law His faith bolstered April got refund one returns direct deposit Washington Mutual account 48032255
In 2010 Securities Exchange Commission went Mortons different scheme one connection sovereign ideology Mr Morton used unconventional celebrity years earlier begin investment club would channel psychic powers predicting foreign currency markets Its risky type trading Mr Morton bragged forecasts accurate even Henry Paulson Treasury secretary relied
After hearing Mr Morton promote fund Coast Coast man Washington State invested 217000 An elderly New York woman parted 20000 Hes promising stars recalled Tim Saunders Alaska electrician poured life savings 135000 Yeah greed came I felt I needed quickly In 100 people invested 6 million Mr Morton sank half foreigncurrency trading nearly lost At least 240000 funneled nonprofit Mortons set authorities dont know rest In 2013 SEC 115 million judgment Ms Morton relief defendant meaning accused profiting scheme
The Mortons filed bankruptcy repeatedly misled government instance claimed bank accounts A court eventually denied discharge meaning couldnt get rid debt They also tossed beachadjacent apartment Bottom line Ms Morton told bankruptcy trustee one day I want able get decent job nice place live pay taxes life back
It around time Mortons turned hawking debterasing sovereign scheme known bond process Over two years helped people around country send nearly two dozen fake bonds IRS Quicken Loans PennyMac Bank America Chase Bank treasurers office Contra Costa County California Early 2015 Barbara Lavender woman whose husband met Mr Morton UFO conference gave call
Ms Lavender 61 frontdesk clerk adult school When I met last year Hemet Calif nearly 90 parched miles east Los Angeles ranchstyle home trimmed red Christmas lights We chatted kitchen table 14yearold dog Remy curled feet She explained spoke Mr Morton phone avoided talking sovereign ideology Instead said could purchase portion bond held almost magically make educational loan disappear
To wipe 70000 balance suggested Ms Lavender send 2500 less 4 percent owed She husband believed Mr Morton discovered sort workaround rich people find You know testified later You hear time wealthy tax loopholes kind thing
The bond looked authentically bureaucratic formal scalloped border It really certificate paper Office Depot The accompanying paperwork said student loan company entitled paid back fund reality United States taps help stabilize foreign currencies Mr Morton said warned Ms Lavender Look I dont know going work Im lawyer He added Its going depend whether accept
A month Mortons mailed bond package Ms Lavender checked educational loan balance saw hadnt budged wrote Ms Morton email She didnt get response Ms Lavender sent followup followup This beginning feel increasingly like scam wrote October bilked hardearned money spare
Ms Morton finally replied said shed recovering knee surgery Ms Lavender sent almost apologetic response Her attention elsewhere husband died suddenly brain mass Once hear Sean let know thinks next wrote With husband gone debt even greater burden main breadwinner
Nothing came exchange That winter two men jackets showed Ms Lavenders home questioned Mortons bond process outcome Afterward Ms Lavender took one business cards nephew works local sheriffs office Yes reassured They really IRS
On Jan 31 2016 nearly 200foottall whiteandblue cruise ship called Ruby Princess docked Port Los Angeles About 100 guests board paid 3000 marketed ConspiraSea Cruise weeklong jaunt Mexican waters American paranoia Vaccinations Do You Really Know Whats Coming Through That Needle Conspiracy Steal Your Body Soul As Mortons prepared disembark arrested federal agents
After years digging IRS investigators Mortons faced suite charges related tax filings fake bonds Once Ruby Princess Mr Morton led workshop called From Fascism Freedom separated patted asked medications took Mr Morton said ask Melissa An agent Cyanide said seething On way jail added Do favor tell Sean Thank Ill see next life
Their trial began Tax Day 2017 The prosecution told simple story greed I submit IRS slot machine one prosecutor Valerie Makarewicz said Keep hitting spin Keep playing hit jackpot The day Mortons got 48032255 refund said went bank drained nearly account Once IRS realized mistake tried recoup money Mortons filed two rounds bogus returns set fake bonds
Ms Mortons lawyer presented goodfaith defense She thrall sovereign gurus said people kind strutted back forth stage answer everything He showed jury 37 pages perfectcursive notes Ms Morton took Brandon Adams lecture In courtroom obviously nonsense But time people believed Melissa Morton believed
Mr Morton represented Im rapist thug war criminal said opening statement I didnt run Nazi concentration camp murder millions children
Serving lawyer also meant crossexamined witnesses Are familiar bankruptcy United States 1933 asked governments fraud expert It reference sovereign conspiracy theory
No witness said Im
During closing argument trials fourth day Mr Morton told jury Norwegian forest cats Earlier week said wife tried save premature kitten They stayed late swaddled cloth fed milk eye dropper The kitten died anyway Ask implored jurors Do send nice people care kittens raise cats jail forever The panel deliberated two hours When returned Ms Morton greeted hopeful smile The verdict guilty counts She fainted
Around time prominent sovereigns facing reckoning A court permanently barred Mr Adams preparing tax returns promoting OID scheme ended prison peddling fake money orders Another guru ConspiraSea Cruise named Winston Shrout workshop Conspiracy Court System awaiting trial Oregon
Mr Mortons sentencing set June But 11 hearing started didnt show
Agents spotted afternoon outside Dominos Hermosa Beach gray hood sunglasses shrouding much face He hopped white Ford Escape headed south The next morning tweeted plea donations Melissa cats need help relocating
Two months passed Mr Morton resurfaced via video friends online talk show Project Camelot Getting Truth Out One Whistleblower Time His hair mussed hed startled awake wore headset black Vneck darkrimmed glasses took
His version hello ripping judge prosecutors biggest gang criminals youre ever going see Soon turned attention impending solar eclipse This one biggest turning points American history said The video clocked 40000 views It vintage Sean David Morton say impossible tell anything believed
I asked Will Chappell known Mortons decade whether actual sovereign dogmatists He said She definitely believed story Sean telling I believe Sean believed story telling A little bit I believed And convictions Melissa course knowing knew would gone long time ago I think Sean would still done He still thinks missed step
The solar eclipse took place August week Mr Mortons onthelam interview Though Ms Morton promised court would contact fugitive husband couple rendezvoused hotel outside Palm Springs That morning moon briefly blotted sun Mr Morton lounging poolside swim trunks purple mountains arrayed eclipse glasses side An IRS agent walked It
At sentencing Ms Morton distanced I living embodiment love blind wrote judge If I ever questioned teachings processes others I told I question others far smarter I There thousands attendees workshops seminars It convincing wellorganized believable How could thousands people wrong She sentenced two years prison filed appeal Behind bars passed time taking classes résuméwriting watercolorpainting embroidery watching Food Network recently transferred halfway house Emails posted Project Camelot site suggest husband still touch
Mr Morton sentenced six years prison Hes representing appeal court papers argued hed improperly profiled terrorist sovereign citizen On Project Camelot hes unrepentant even sharing pardon request said sent President Trump
Its work RADIO TV INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM DEEP STATE forces within DOJ put wife I prison YEARS wrote Of course suggestion correct injustice donate PayPal account
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raphael Minder
MADRID The simmering conflict Catalan independence roared back center Spanish attention Tuesday 12 people went trial roles botched secession attempt 2017 Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez scrambled keep issue toppling government
The eagerly anticipated trial Spanish Supreme Court Madrid drawn enormous attention broadcast live national television could soon overshadowed political crisis unfolding blocks away Parliament
On Wednesday Mr Sánchezs minority Socialist government faces crucial parliamentary vote national budget If majority lawmakers reject including Catalan lawmakers far backed prime minister almost certainly forced call elections
With Spains government hanging balance Supreme Court intense pressure demonstrate remain impartial politics case ignited passions recriminations The Catalan separatist leaders indicted charges include rebellion holding independence referendum declaring independence October 2017 moves Spanish courts ruled unconstitutional
The secessionist conflict split Catalan society also helped reshape Spains politics Mr Sánchez came office unexpectedly June winning vote noconfidence previous conservative government backing Basque Catalan nationalist lawmakers
To stay office needs maintain support separatist parties governed Catalonia wealthy northeastern region Spain since 2015 But Quim Torra leader regional government insisted party would back national budget unless Mr Sánchez agreed consider another independence referendum prime minister refused
On Tuesday María Jesús Montero Spains budget minister told lawmakers trial conflict Catalonia polarized debate budget insisted government cede blackmail separatist lawmakers
We always betting political dialogue within constitutional framework make clear framework nothing outside constitutional order said
Mr Sánchezs attempt renew political dialogue separatists recently labeled treason leader Spains conservative party Pablo Casado
Almost every aspect criminal case subject intense political feuding location trial Madrid rather Barcelona decision Spains judiciary deny bail defendants keep prison since late 2017
The defendants supporters see conditions reinforcing independence movements complaints oppressive central government Opponents secessionism hand hope prison sentences Catalan leaders deter illegal attempts break Spain
Within main chamber frescoed Supreme Court building built 18th century panel seven justices 12 defendants listened opening arguments Tuesday Oriol Junqueras former deputy leader Catalonia occupied frontbench
Andreu Van den Eynde lawyer Mr Junqueras opened proceedings cast case matter free expression right protest right vote
We make political defense defend human values rights Mr Van den Eynde said The defendants argued already faced legal proceeding every constitutional right restricted
A handful indicted politicians missing trial however including Carles Puigdemont former leader Catalonia fled Brussels successfully resisted Spains attempts extradite
Outside Supreme Court building television crews heavy police surveillance jostled space 600 journalists accredited cover trial
In surrounding streets protesters carried Spanish flags denounced Mr Sánchez handling Catalan conflict called ouster small echo antigovernment demonstration drew tens thousands people Sunday
I rely judges politicians havent done put end attempt destroy Spain said Santiago Pulido house painter held sign drawing two defendants devils horns
Some defendants face 25 years prison found guilty sentences much heavier Mr Pulido said They responsible dividing Spanish people making people fight within country I think serious crime
The trial expected last least three months But budgetary defeat Wednesday could force Mr Sánchez call elections summer means could take place verdicts made public
Opposition politicians want Mr Sánchez hold general election May 26 Spain already hold municipal regional elections well votes European Parliament
Speaking outside courtroom Mr Van den Eynde defense lawyer said trial views already politicized could influenced snap election
Were trying stay focused trial said know politics change everything change



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Paul Mozur Austin Ramzy
HONG KONG The Chinese electronics giant Huawei sued United States government Wednesday arguing unfairly incorrectly banned security threat
The lawsuit force government make case company public could also leave Huawei vulnerable deeper scrutiny business practices relationship Chinese government
The United States argued Huawei poses risk equipment could used Chinese authorities spy communications disrupt telecommunications networks That position led major wireless carriers United States avoid Huaweis equipment
Huawei denies allegations says lawsuit meant prove engage practices The companys plans file lawsuit first reported Monday The New York Times
The US Congress repeatedly failed produce evidence support restrictions Huawei products Guo Ping Huaweis rotating chairman said statement announcing filing lawsuit We compelled take legal action proper last resort
The lawsuit filed United States District Court Plano Tex Huawei American headquarters argues part 2019 National Defense Authorization Act unconstitutional singles Huawei The act bans government agencies contracting Huawei companies use companys equipment
Huawei Chinas biggest maker telecommunications equipment pressure months United States authorities Now striking back The suit part markedly aggressive legal public relations offensive Huawei recently mounted push back spying accusations
During news briefing broadcast official Huawei feed Twitter Mr Guo pulled punches
The US government long branded Huawei threat hacked service stolen emails source code said referring National Security Agency documents provided former contractor Edward J Snowden showed agency pried way Huaweis systems
Still US government sparing effort smear company mislead public Huawei added The briefing streamed Twitter American internet platform blocked China reached two million people
In December Meng Wanzhou daughter Huaweis founder chief financial officer company detained Canada behest United States seeking extradite
Her father Ren Zhengfei companys founder since rejected claims daughter said would wait see President Trump would intervene case Ms Meng court week Vancouver British Columbia part extradition hearing
In meantime Huawei battled many customers nations said would pull back buying products China also retaliated Canada detaining several Canadian citizens This week Canadian officials also complained China begun suspend import canola country
Lu Kang spokesman Chinas Ministry Foreign Affairs said Thursday Chinese decision based discovery pests Canadian canola
China long history interrupting trade countries middle diplomatic spats In September 2010 China halted export rare earth metals Japan two months dispute sovereignty cluster tiny islands Japan Taiwan Weeks later China suspended trade talks Norway halted import Norwegian salmon Nobel Peace Prize awarded Chinese dissident Norwegian committee
Huaweis lawsuit argues singling company Congress violated constitutional principles separation powers also bill attainder clause prohibits legislation singles person entity punishment without trial
The actual intended effect prohibitions bar Huawei significant segments US market telecommunications equipment services thereby inflicting immediate ongoing economic competitive reputational harms Huawei companys lawyers wrote suit
They added prohibitions carried without fair hearing opportunity rebut allegations without opportunity escape
The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab filed ultimately lost similar legal challenge two years ago After Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies ban Kaspersky products systems Congress codified directive law
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits arguing singled punishment without trial A judge ultimately dismissed lawsuits pointing came legitimate desire protect American networks
The Justice Department filed criminal charges Huawei January cases focus companys connections evading American sanctions Iran theft intellectual property Neither relates core question faced governments around world whether using Huaweis equipment new 5G networks causes security concerns
The new lawsuit seeks focus question push United States government make case While Huawei unlikely reverse American opposition company may hope win government officials countries including Europe probably following American lawsuit closely
Debate security Huaweis systems come critical moment countries around world preparing spend hundreds billions dollars expanding cellular networks next generation 5G technology
The new networks faster speeds also used connect bewildering number new sensors datacollection systems alongside smartphones That would make vulnerabilities networks potentially serious cellular networks past
Mr Lu Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman expressed support Huaweis legal action
We believe perfectly justified fully understandable companies safeguard legitimate rights interests legal means said
Many Chinese expressed support social media Huaweis legal stand United States Some others noted sarcasm difficulties similar legal recourse companies individuals within Chinas system
So sue government wrote one user Weibo Chinese social media service Interesting All sudden Im thinking actually I dont dare think
Keith Bradsher contributed reporting Shanghai Zoe Mou contributed research Beijing Qiqing Lin Shanghai



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Associated Press
MOGADISHU Somalia Gunmen Islamist militant group stormed government building Somalias capital Mogadishu suicide car bombing Saturday killing least five people including countrys deputy labor minister police said
Somali security forces fought hourslong gun battle least five assailants retake control building houses ministries labor works police officer Capt Mohamed Hussein said
The Reuters news agency citing police sources put death toll end battle 15
Saqar Ibrahim Abdalla Somalias deputy minister labor social affairs killed groundfloor office shortly gunmen stormed building Captain Hussein said
Saturday working day Somalia dozens people believed building time attack
The Shabab claimed responsibility attack building far headquarters Somali intelligence agency As attack unfolded gunfire could heard building White smoke billowed scene witnesses said
A similar attack targeting busy area Mogadishu February killed least 24 people That attack also began pair car bombs exploding popular area Mogadishu Somalis relaxing restaurants
The Shabab links Al Qaeda frequently carry suicide bombings targeting public places hotels government offices They Africas active Islamist militant group fighting years take power create Islamic state Somalia
The group continues mount lethal attacks despite pushed Mogadishu part African Union peacekeepers It mostly operates rural areas countrys south
The group carried many deadly attacks neighboring Kenya retaliation Kenyas deployment 2011 peacekeepers Somalia
The United States military carried number deadly airstrikes recent months Shabab


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
France Dispatch
By Adam Nossiter
BAYONNE France The government Paris disapproves But local mayor doesnt care He says continue sheltering Africans crossing Spanish border France
For JeanRené Etchegaray mayor Bayonne quiet refined city French Basque Country 22 miles border matter necessity humanitarian obligation
Since Italy closed borders migrants France tried close border migrants coming Italy Spain become prime gateway Europe migrants Africa 57000 arriving last year
Many crossing France transiting Bayonne place everything reasonable Stendhal wrote mid19th century
But Mr Etchegaray sees reasonable stance put war government President Emmanuel Macron even mayor become case study frontline management Europes migration crisis contradictions
The mayor doesnt necessarily want young men predominantly Frenchspeaking West African countries like Guinea Mali Ivory Coast hanging around forever He also doesnt want camping streets tall old halftimbered Basque houses nestled along slowmoving rivers
But wants migrants exist city condition dignity put I dont think I less said
So Mr Etchegaray took young men streets requisitioned old military barracks near train station put camp beds brought hot meals keeps place heated
The young men greet warmly shows several times day
Good man said one temporary guests Abdul Sylla 29yearold Guinea harbors vague hopes studying Close people
Official France keeps wagging finger citys mayor
It absolutely question state would give slightest aid mayors shelter Gilbert Payet recently Mr Macrons regional representative Interior Ministry testily told local reporters last month
The mayor unfazed
I saw frontiers closing far Im concerned fundamental rights cant trampled Mr Etchegaray said evoking Bayonnes heritage refuge Jews fleeing Spanish Inquisition birthplace great Jewish jurist René Cassin helped draft Universal Declaration Human Rights
The French states attitude toward mayor illustrates Mr Macrons ambiguities subject migration
germany
200 miles
Paris
switz
France
Atlantic
Ocean
italy
Mediterranean Sea
spain
30 miles
Bayonne
Bay Biscay
france
Irun
basque country
spain
By The New York Times
On one hand exalted Frances humanitarian traditions asked police treat migrants fairness
On government refused admission migrant ships put migrant rights advocates trial boasted many foreigners expelled turned back frontiers
The Italians angrily accused French hypocrisy Mr Etchegaray used word
The prefect said No recalled Maïté Etcheverry young volunteer runs shelter Bayonne
But mayor merely carried distributing blankets inquiring migrants wellbeing paying center budget local agglomeration towns runs
They said Youre going create pull factor even migrants Mr Etchegaray said laugh interview office past week
They said Youre going create another Calais said referring squalid encampments northern France since demolished thousands migrants waited mud cold misery hoping get England
So far hasnt turned way
I dont feel Im anything contrary law Mr Etchegaray said mildly
Look Im kind radical crazy person continued noting migrants stay days move
He even moved bus stop lowcost travel services front shelter make easier migrants leave And went war bus company drivers demanding illegally Africans produce identity papers
We squatters France supported City Hall Ms Etcheverry said grinning
That mayor hes deep prefect visibly interior minister said Ms Etcheverry law student Its really kind extraordinary
A selfdescribed radical proBasque independence leftist found political opposition 66yearold centerright mayor Not time
The migrants come go center day often arriving inconspicuous cars traffickers The local police say seedy district around train station nearby Spanish border city Irún become hive trafficking
One recent day group six young African men backpacks hurried single file across plaza Irún flight stairs
They bundled waiting car quickly drove Watching plaza several spotters talking furtively phones All happened right noses group Spanish police officers 20 yards away stir
French Spanish officers wait opposite sides bridge crossing river separates Spain France corner The border open unless migrant case might get stopped checked sent back
If migrants make shelter Bayonne however temporary refuge
The local police enter courtyard converted shelter long low hall staffed volunteers stocked donations food clothing The young men staying play scrabble lie quietly camp beds grateful worst seems behind
I never want see sea said Ibrahima Doumbia young Guinean crossed Mediterranean boat I fright life
With arrival cold weather fall knew growing migrant population Bayonne could longer stay one citys main squares people camping
It cold raining Mr Etchegaray said We couldnt leave anymore They cold sick hungry
The mayor formed plans initiative quickly He came directly square Ms Etcheverry recalled adding remembered saying Ill back halfhour
When returned led volunteers migrants underground parking lot municipal police temporary solution something better could found
He accompanied showed toilets Ms Etcheverry recounted He saw quiet young people helping young people But never imagined would end like center financed municipality
It mayors duty Mr Etchegaray said
The state doesnt want know added But Ive got know And emergency



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Bits
By Jamie Condliffe
Hi Im Jamie Condliffe Greetings London Heres look weeks tech news
There little fashionable 2019 desire curb Big Techs power But knowing far regulators go putting limits Silicon Valleys largest companies isnt straightforward
At one extreme calls break Big Tech Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines week called Ms Warren Massachusetts Democrat argued companies shouldnt offer products platforms controlled like Apples selling apps App Store something Spotify called European regulators Wednesday She also said would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions Facebooks takeovers Instagram WhatsApp
Her pitch isnt perfect The New York Timess Kevin Roose pointed generic misses easy wins overlooks big issues But bold inspiring rally cry Big Techs biggest critics
At end spectrum tech companies Ideally likes Facebook Google would love perpetually operate lightly regulated world helped grow quickly But even Mark Zuckerberg Facebooks chief executive acknowledged inevitable regulation testified House Energy Commerce Committee April
Theres plenty room extremes Take example report published Wednesday British government called overhaul antitrust policies Big Tech Its main proposal new regulator identify companies strategic market status block activities promoting products services search results belonging competitors hello Google
That reports authors say probusiness proconsumer solution changing antitrust law drive breakup businesses
So whos right Mr Zuckerberg least says regulatory intervention inevitable Theres strong bipartisan support regulation As line drawn thats harder say
Breaking big companies isnt easy Its expensive takes long time And doesnt always go plan The last notable attempt judge ruled two decades ago Microsoft cleaved violated antitrust law overturned appeal So Ms Warren could work cut
But may ultimately become question balancing ambition need Is better gamble breaking big companies guarantee new rules curb behavior Thats something lawmakers going wrestle
When OpenAI founded three years ago huge goal build artificial intelligence software capable human brain Its founders said nonprofit noble ambitions 1 billion funding backers pay way public could trust build socalled general artificial intelligence
Only 1 billion doesnt go far goals like Huge computing resources big salaries attract talent burn cash Actually turns profits might useful
So Wired reported Open AI announced changing business model To keep Facebook Google created OpenAI LP company take money investors need return profit like venture funds That make easier raise funds Down line might monetize technology develops But company decided cap returns investors see 100 every dollar invested
One way think figure OpenAI deems 100times return ethical margin building general AI enough make feasible endeavor much tar Big Tech brush That reasoning clearly holds inhabit Silicon Valley But interesting see profit cap enough put everyone ease
On March 12 1989 Tim BernersLee proposed idea linking digital files boss Mike Sendall called vague exciting It ultimately became World Wide Web 30 years later left much love hate existence
At event Londons Science Museum Tuesday mark webs passage fourth decade Mr BernersLee asked might look like another 30 years Heres said
Its I think us try guess
Look whats happened last 30 years The web changed really dramatically lot couldnt predicted
What say web want
We want web open We want web royaltyfree We want web discriminationfree
Worthy goals And article wrote past week Mr BernersLee laid steps may required ensure happen
Governments must translate laws regulations digital age They must ensure markets remain competitive innovative open
Companies must ensure pursuit shortterm profit expense human rights democracy scientific fact public safety
Platforms products must designed privacy diversity security mind
And important citizens must hold companies governments accountable
Thirty years Mr Sendalls analysis might apply equally well proposal
Elon Musk really dislikes whistleblowers According Businessweek Mr Musk Tesla chief executive set destroy one employee leaked details raw materials wastage company
How Google pay executives accused misconduct Handsomely Two shared total 135 million according details emerged lawsuit week
Who fund next wave tech startups Thatll millionaires created companies like Airbnb Uber go public
You care TikTok You might never use could reshape social media know
Scientists dropped smartphone blender Because apparently best way work much cobalt gold substances
How disappear almost completely A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps going dark staying online
Silicon Valley wants build monument To Silicon Valley obviously
Jamie Condliffe editor DealBook newsletter He also writes weekly Bits newsletter Follow Twitter jme_c
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Vivian Yee Hwaida Saad
BEIRUT Lebanon Lebanons newly formed government gives Islamist movement Hezbollah key ministries raised concerns country could run afoul sanctions United States prohibit material support Iranbacked group
On Friday United States warned Hezbollah propping agenda new position includes key posts Lebanons government including Ministry Health
American officials concerned Hezbollah use ministry provide statesubsidized health care patronage jobs supporters possibly even fighters helping endure punishing American sanctions made difficult group offer usual social services Shiite Muslim base
We call new government ensure resources services ministries provide support Hezbollah said State Department spokesman Robert Palladino
As new cabinet coalesced Thursday nearly nine months political deadlock assistant United States Treasury secretary terrorist financing Marshall Billingslea warned Hezbollah tried exploit ministries funnel money undertake activities support terrorist agenda significant concerns
Hezbollah expected gain strength government group allies expanded share seats Lebanons parliamentary elections last May significantly weakening Westernbacked prime minister Saad Hariri bloc Now control Health Ministry fourthlargest budget government ability embed Lebanese state institutions made bigger target elusive prey United States designated terrorist group
Lebanons political system awards posts patronage spoils politicians different religious affiliations order maintain balance among countrys 18 officially recognized religious sects There long history ministers stripes using Health Ministry provide free subsidized health care supporters Analysts believe Hezbollah may try whether Shiite base troublingly United States Hezbollah fighters wounded Syrian civil war next door
This yet another example Hezbollah openly holding Lebanons security prosperity hostage said Rachel Mikeska spokeswoman American Embassy Lebanon She added United States prepared take whatever actions necessary protect interests Lebanese people
She declined say actions might But analysts said possibilities ranged relatively restrained reducing funding Health Ministry squeezing international donors like World Health Organization dire The United States could theoretically impose sanctions Lebanese hospitals preventing export American medications Lebanon cut American military aid Lebanese Army
It unclear Hezbollah might Health Ministry Trump administration would consider violation sanctions law President Trump signed October Analysts said Hezbollah may chosen Dr Jamil Jabak 63yearold internist close ties Hezbollah health minister try avoid direct sanctions ministry Dr Jabak member Hezbollah said served personal physician groups leader
Would Washington consider free health care Hezbollah members provided Health Ministry example significant financial support wrote Michael Young political observer journalist Carnegie Middle East Center Beirut opinion column last year Its difficult say would never
The United States various interests Lebanon often end conflict including comes Hezbollah It wants counter Iran proxies also maintain Lebanons stability war Syria continues burn also wants battle terrorism push back Russian influence Middle East
Though Washington designated Hezbollah terrorist organization actions around world close relationship Iran group also baked legitimate parts Lebanese state making difficult United States target without also affecting rest country
The debate US Lebanon always prioritize balance competing priorities said Firas Maksad director Arabia Foundation Washingtonbased think tank leans toward proSaudi Arabia antiIran policies
On one side debate antiIran hardliners argue Iran Mediterranean Hezbollah uses Lebanese political elite Lebanese government thin veil political cover Mr Maksad said
Those voices include Republicans Congress members Trump administration may push cutting aid Lebanese Army significant source support armed forces well Health Ministry
Opposing hawkish views including much traditional foreign policy establishment prefer measured response
Given Lebanons floundering economy political instability Mr Maksad said dont want whole place come The prospect economic collapse greatly increased pressure countrys political factions strike powersharing agreement
They also argue reducing military aid would leave room Russia expanded influence across Middle East make inroads Lebanon
In general sanctions financial tools come primary stick used United States Iran regional partners On trip Beirut last week Mr Billingslea urged Lebanese officials exclude Hezbollah involvement countrys banking financial sectors called reforms would allow Lebanese authorities block freeze accounts associated group
But Hezbollah continues expand influence Lebanese institutions sanctions may prove overly blunt tool hitting legitimate government services civilians addition party
In past Hezbollah played smaller role government could easily separate Hezbollah state institutions said Hanin Ghaddar LebaneseAmerican analyst Washington Institute Near East Policy frequent critic Hezbollah
Now Hezbollah commanding broad swath government asked How keep stability Lebanese institutions going Hezbollah everything
But Kassem Qassir Lebanese political analyst close Hezbollah said concerns Hezbollahs dominance overblown
Nobody sole control Lebanon neither Hezbollah anybody else said Lebanon diverse country
In televised interview Saturday Hassan Nasrallah organizations secretary general said group intend meddle Lebanons balance power
But Mr Maksad noted Hezbollah managed forge pacts Christian Sunni politicians well Shiite ones held formation new government prime minister Sunni agreed allow Hezbollahs Sunni allies cabinet unmistakable mark strength
Of new faces 30seat cabinet Dr Jabak physician leading ministry closely watched West attracted immediate attention
I dont belong political party said radio interview Friday


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Julia Jacobs
Forty years ago CSpan went live first public broadcast House Representatives chamber giving Americans televisionshaped window lawmakers behave ornate room history often made
Ushering CSpan era March 19 1979 Al Gore representative Tennessee pushed networks access Capitol
From day forward Mr Gore said time every member body must ask many Americans listening debates made
Since day CSpan debuted four employees network become mainstay American politics We spoke Susan Swain one CSpans two chief executives birth network Washingtons initial resistance caught camera network adapted social media age
This interview Ms Swain joined CSpan three years started edited brevity clarity
In moment Al Gore approached lectern House chamber CSpan went live changed American politics
The fact people could actually see elected representatives living room phones fundamental change In past people might pull lever every two years member Congress super engaged might read newsletter came mail go occasional town hall meeting
This meant time interested could watch member Congress say Prior television Congress time members really got attention big names like Kennedy something outrageous either positively negatively member leadership
Initially lot resistance Washington idea CSpan broadcasting House floor debates And Senate didnt allow CSpan another seven years Why resistance
Members concerns cameras would swinging around taking pictures members focused attentively debates heaven forbid closing eyes second Or today perhaps might sending tweet
One ways finally came bear created compromise members could live The compromise House Representatives speakers office would control cameras floor House All rest Congress press conferences hearings CSpan news organizations covering independently
Every time theres change speaker sent letter saying Nows time Allow CSpan journalistic organizations put cameras side side That argument continues go nowhere
Were politicians selfconscious theyd appear camera
I think concern wouldnt control picture The Senate finally acquiesced classic story American politics
The House coming peoples living rooms via CSpan regularly nightly news could picked regularly nightly stories House Television loves pictures would stories House The Senate becoming concerned becoming secondtier citizen Congress
The person really instrumental Senator Robert Byrd West Virginia one oldline members much institutionalist much concerned Senate would change He went home West Virginia speak introduced West Virginia home state speaker House And big shock white hair thenSpeaker House Tip ONeill And brought home So convinced recalcitrant members vote CSpan went June 1986
What one significant memories time CSpan
The day Challenger shuttle exploded televising live I believe I air shuttle going And became clear watched picture shuttle major catastrophe
We sat watched long NASA took pictures story began unfold Then opened phone lines There incredible outpouring around country people witnessing absolute tragedy human tragedy also technological tragedy unfold front eyes
CSpan given politicians platform connect directly constituents social media Is CSpan still relevant
CSpans relevance comes form events cover every day within minutes televise digitized stored video archives It 250000 hours political video weve covered since 1987
That means member Congress pull clip hearing send constituents It also means people social media latenight comedians immediate access
I think people 20s younger experience CSpan social media latenight comedians The creation video library 1987 every bit significant original creation CSpan
CSpan long fought cameras allowed Supreme Court chamber What chances youll succeed
I feel little bit like Sisyphus pushing rock hill What documented years people nominated Supreme Court go committee hearings expressing open mind concept get inside chamber nine manage convinced others would detrimental institution
We keep hoping generations change younger appointees come familiar media even social media attitude change But institution continues prevail
Follow Julia Jacobs Twitter juliarebeccaj



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Benjamin Mueller
LONDON Britains tottering efforts leave European Union remained impasse Thursday allies Prime Minister Theresa May tried keep deal alive face unbending opposition
The deal already defeated twice Parliament given new life Wednesday Mrs May promised Conservative Party colleagues hardline supporters leaving bloc would step passed let someone else take next stage talks Brussels process known Brexit
Who could Britains next prime minister Here contenders
But even offer resign enough assuage hardline Conservatives putative allies Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland DUP hate deal
So government tried new tack Thursday Ministers said would disassemble Mrs Mays deal two parts one called withdrawal agreement political declaration ask Parliament vote Friday first
The withdrawal agreement outlines terms Britains exit European Union political declaration deals tangled question future relationship bloc
The basics Brexit troubled plan Britain quit European Union
The speaker House Commons John Bercow said would allow Parliament vote plan changed substantially since rejected resoundingly twice Thursday said government met test
Ministers pitching vote proBrexit hardliners last opportunity secure Britains exit European Union coming months lest proEuropeans Parliament take control try frustrate Brexit force longer delay
Ministers also hoped date vote March 29 originally scheduled day Britains exit would put symbolic pressure proBrexit Conservatives swallow objections back Mrs May
But withdrawal agreement contains contentious pieces Mrs Mays plan
Among socalled backstop least temporarily binds Britain greater extent Northern Ireland European trading rules avoid customs checks historically contentious border Ireland part European Union Northern Ireland part United Kingdom
Unionists Northern Ireland reject backstop believe would create regulatory differences Northern Ireland rest United Kingdom putting union risk
And British news media reports late Thursday said unionists intended vote Mrs Mays plan Friday considerably narrowing prime ministers path victory
There hope among Conservatives splitting Mrs Mays plan two would strengthen case opposition Labour lawmakers whose main objections political declaration withdrawal agreement
But Labour leaders reacted angrily idea Thursday noting Mrs May previously said two pieces plan inextricably linked
Keir Starmer senior Labour official warned Thursday splitting would leave us blindest blindfold Brexits He referring Labours fear Parliament passed part Mrs Mays plan prime minister resigned hardline proBrexit politician like Boris Johnson would take shape crucial next stage negotiations
Stephen Doughty Labour member Parliament said This looks like trickery highest order
Confusion swirled day Parliament governments plans ministers leaving lawmakers dark would voting Friday late afternoon
At time antiBrexit lawmakers working behind scenes pick alternate plans put Parliament Monday case Mrs Mays deal pass
The antiBrexit lawmakers buoyed votes Parliament Wednesday night catalog proposals clashed Mrs Mays
Those included onceradical ideas like holding second public vote Brexit revoking Britains decision leave altogether well Brexit plans would see Britain keep closer ties Europe Mrs Mays proposal envisioned
The votes represented first time two years Brexit negotiations Parliament allowed express feelings alternate plans lawmakers hoped would show path compromise
But chagrin Mrs Mays opponents eight alternate plans failed muster majority leading British newspaper The Guardian run headline front page Thursday No No No No No No No No
Some proposals got close A plan customs union Britain European Union lost six votes Mr Bercow said tallying error originally led say eightvote margin
And option holding another referendum test Britons views leaving bloc attracted support expected 268 members voted favor 295
The result proposal second referendum coming weekend hundreds thousands people marched London another vote five million signed petition asking cancel Brexit sign views antiBrexit politicians grown intense process drags
The nonbinding votes set stage another round debate Parliament Monday menu alternate options whittled politicians given second chance coalesce behind new plan
If Mrs Mays withdrawal agreement passes Friday Parliament would meet European Unions deadline completing Brexit process extracting Britain bloc May 22
If Britain could crash bloc without deal April 12 analysts say would calamitous exit could ask longer extension
Mrs Mays offer resign another reminder anxiety Britain Brexit Conservative Party politics still dictated large degree members leadership ambitions
ProBrexit politicians like Mr Johnson long angling take Mrs May chance sooner rather later seemed enough many back months fierce opposition deal
Mr Johnson said Mrs Mays deal strapped suicide vest around country Another hardline proBrexit lawmaker Jacob ReesMogg said prime ministers plan would turn Britain slave state
On Wednesday said would back deal



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Jim Tankersley Patricia Cohen
WASHINGTON The longest government shutdown United States history resulted shocking number taxpayers calls Internal Revenue Service going unreturned left languish hold unusually long periods according government audit released Tuesday
The audit office National Taxpayer Advocate found five million pieces mail went unanswered 87000 amended tax returns processed shutdown thousands IRS workers furloughed working without pay
The issues especially acute since followed significant changes tax code ushered President Trumps 15 trillion tax overhaul left many people questions filing returns
The problems continued even shutdown audit found In week ended Feb 2 shortly agency employees returned jobs fewer half calls IRSs accountsmanagement lines answered compared nearly 90 percent week last year The typical hold time callers increased 17 minutes four minutes 2018
There similar frustrations called agencys socalled balancedue line hopes making payment arrangements taxes owed Fewer 7 percent calls answered typical wait stretched 80 minutes
IRS officials said reviewing taxpayer advocates findings
We continuing assess impact shutdown various operations across agency remain proud many IRS employees risen resulting challenges agency said statement The IRS committed continue making improvements across information technology tax enforcement taxpayer service operations
Data released agency last week showed Americans filed 12 percent fewer returns Feb 2 compared point 2018 IRS processed 26 percent fewer returns The agency given indication Tuesdays statement otherwise might consider pushing back Aprils tax filing deadline order account shutdownrelated snags
The taxpayer advocates audit focus solely shutdowns impact reflected effort office led Nina E Olson capture typical taxpayer experience dealing IRS The audit said many Americans feelings process could boiled two words extreme frustration
The audit found policy change made Trump administration intended simplify taxfiling process creation postcard size 1040 form made filing difficult new form include much information many taxpayers need complete returns
The new schedules force taxpayers crossreference transfer data credits deductions income increasing potential errors occur since tax information dispersed many pages needs tracked reported different schedules forms report says
The problems became apparent 35day shutdown ended Jan 25 underscored agencys deeper flaws including reliance 1960sera technology audit found The systems contain official record taxpayer accounts oldest federal government
For last 25 years IRS tried unable replace audit says citing budgetary constraints
The outdated systems deprive IRS comprehensive view taxpayers accounts hampering agencys ability properly identify targeted outreach collections audits
Inadequate financing primary cause agencys failings audit found Congress long beat IRS routinely condemning performance cutting budget For example money technology improvements 2018 fiscal year reduced 62 percent 110 million year
Taxpayers called IRS last fall advice new tax law would affect frequently told tax law personnel time due budgetary cuts disconnected audit found Part reason decision agency answer tax law questions three half months January tax filing day
A lack information also meant vast majority taxpayers eligible use free software file returns electronically take advantage program Of 106 million taxpayers could qualify free program fewer 25 million use
Because editing error earlier version article referred imprecisely 62 percent reduction financing Internal Revenue Service 2018 fiscal year It applied technology improvements specifically general improvements


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Dan Bilefsky
MONTREAL Canadian diplomats posted Cuba suing government claiming failed protect respond robustly mysterious illness acquired stationed Cuba
The illness known Havana Syndrome affected dozens American Canadian diplomats posted Cuba come symptoms like memory loss sleep disturbance nosebleeds saying heard strange highpitched sound
The suit filed week federal court Toronto says Canadian government slow respond provide sufficient medical treatment diplomats children targeted 2017 strange debilitating attacks resulted brain injuries without evident physical trauma
Paul Miller lawyer representing 14 diplomats spouses children suing compared attack preceded illnesses science fiction horror film
He said plaintiffs seeking 28 million Canadian dollars damages
It tragedy diplomats kids lifelong trauma attacks said
The plaintiffs identified pseudonyms sensitivities related work nature injuries concerns expressed Canada relating according suit
The murky circumstances illness drawn international speculation Neither United States Canada determined cause leading speculation kind microwave weapon could involved
Last month Canadian government said would withdraw half diplomatic staff Cuba another employee fell ill condition said affected 14 Canadian employees spouses dependents
So far 26 Americans affected similar illnesses according State Department
Speaking reporters Washington Wednesday evening Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland declined comment specifics case But said met diplomats affected health safety priority
Its privilege serve Canada around world also really hard something whole families said Im really concerned Canadas utmost sympathy support
One Canadian career diplomat party suit said familys lives turned upsidedown The diplomat requested anonymity still worked government said stationed Cuba 2017 suddenly fell ill debilitating headaches initially attributed stress
After hearing American cases Havana Syndrome said connected symptoms highpitched noises coming backyard
She said 10yearold daughter affected well waking heavy nosebleed later suffering headaches forced miss school
She said Canadian government waited months seeking treatment diplomats prevented warning colleagues posted Cuba
The diplomat said emotional trauma suffering mysterious illness exacerbated feeling government believe
The suit contends despite knowing risks similar attacks American diplomats 2016 Canada continued send diplomats Havana It accused government playing seriousness situation leaving victims contend rumors faking
The plaintiffs also contend government restricted information could share doctors tried stop University Pennsylvania Center Brain Injury Repair studying syndrome testing Canadians
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Dave Philipps
SHREVEPORT La Transgender troops like Senior Airman Sterling Crutcher seen unreasonable burden Trump administration It says presence hurts morale militarys ability fight place uniform
Thats news Airman Crutcher He got back deployment B52 bomber squadron fellow airmen squadron counts among best friends threw shower wife Aimee celebrate first child born February
Sign weekly At War newsletter receive stories duty conflict consequence
At level issue Airman Crutcher 30 said serving transgender I meet exceed standards people I work like They lot questions dont problem
This uneasy time transgender troops United States military caught commander chief wants court injunctions least temporarily said could stay The last injunctions lifted Thursday
But dozens transgender troops like Airman Crutcher said interviews felt supported service Their comrades commanders welcomed said military often accepting homes neighborhoods left enlist
Nearly 1000 troops officially deemed transgender currently serving American military according Defense Department another 228 process enlisting They globe wide spectrum roles infantry officers armor platoon leaders drill sergeants intelligence specialists Arabic linguists nuclear reactor operators A transgender instructor teaches leadership Naval Academy
They started coming publicly 2016 military lifted longtime ban concluding would significant negative impact budgets operations But President Trump announced abrupt reversal policy Twitter year later saying would longer allow transgender troops serve capacity
The Defense Department laid arguments excluding transgender troops House Armed Services Committee late last month James N Stewart senior Pentagon official testified transgender troops prone mental health issues troops transition medical treatments make nondeployable months factors said would make recruits ineligible serve stemmed kinds preexisting health conditions
Mr Stewart retired Air Force general rejected calling policy ban saying policy drafted presidents Twitter announcement still allows transgender troops serve long never transition
He argued troops transitioned ranks could also raise complicated questions physical fitness standards access shower bathroom facilities may upset others leading unnecessary debilitating leadership challenges
Other troops military leaders disagree Five transgender troops also testified hearing said aside uncertainty created change policy encountered problems transitioning uniform Instances harassment according Sparta association transgender troops
And testimony Senate last spring heads Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps said aware issues caused transgender troops serving openly
Airman Crutcher says people outside unit realize transgender He relaxes weekends playing video games Airsoft gun battles troops unit
Theres nothing remarkable either way said Senior Airman Kyle Daily serves squadron There people unit dont agree theyre minority
Many transgender recruits come socially conservative small towns strict religious upbringings spent youth feeling like misfits Some troops born anatomically male said interviews enlisted initial hope military service would drum feminine feelings
I hoped would straighten I didnt want family hate said Aylanna Anderson Air Force staff sergeant raised Catholic tiny West Texas town became Eagle Scout I hoped I could leave I saw dark part behind
To surprise enlisting 2012 Sergeant Anderson said found culture emphasized judging people ability identity She began transition female 2017
The military freeing said phone Kunsan Air Base South Korea repairs electronics F16 fighters I dont know I could done otherwise
Airman Crutcher grew Pentecostal household rural Missouri said wrote heartfelt letter family lifelong sense boy girls body refused read asking instead drugs
By contrast came Air Force commander said reaction What I need I want make sure supported
A days back deployment Guam bomber squadron shopping crib pregnant wife got text mother
But wasnt birth mother says essentially disowned told 2015 transgender It Air Force mother Kim Thomas wife lieutenant colonel informally adopted meeting basic training He spends holidays family calls Mom
Shes best Airman Crutcher said leaned wifes phone see photo Ms Thomas sent new outfit baby It lifechanging support family love matter
Ms Thomas said taking Airman Crutcher wing came naturally Here amazing kid volunteered fight die country said We going allow go military without support
A 2016 RAND Corporation study found nearly onefifth transgender troops plan transition medically Those transition may depending gender preference undergo hormone therapy breast removal procedures like surgery make facial features voices gender appropriate All covered military
Transitioning troops also request surgery change genitals approval process recovery time lengthy The Defense Department respond questions many gender reassignment procedures performed troops since ban lifted 2016 Sparta estimates figure six
The cost disruption associated surgery chief complaint critics RAND study estimated factors would negligible fewer 200 active troops transitioning per year total cost less 10 million In interviews troops transitioned said tried time surgical procedures scheduled lulls unit activity sometimes put deployments demanding work assignments
Even transitioning detour careers Some Sparta members said removed sensitive jobs pilots air traffic controllers nuclear missile operators concern might mentally unstable
Regulations get way well Airman Crutcher sent home early 2016 deployment Qatar medical staff discovered testosterone treatments receiving violated rule injected medications troops deployed region
I crushed said My major called said fought stay regulations
Capt Alivia Stehlik transgender woman graduated West Point man 2008 completed Armys punishing Ranger School led infantry platoon She Army physical therapist stationed Fort Carson Colo
In interview home said transition seen asset burden
She volunteered deploy Afghanistan infantry brigade last spring units regular physical therapist became pregnant Captain Stehlik spent nearly year hopping helicopters base base treating sprains injuries medical bag one hand M4 rifle
Sixfootthree broadshouldered said would pretty obvious 1700 soldiers treated transgender never problem
Its woman I still job I man I actually better Captain Stehlik said People actually open I made vulnerable I think I still guy might downplayed much things hurt tried act tough And I might


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Elizabeth A Harris
The United States Copyright Office said dance first popularized TV show The Fresh Prince BelAir could copyrighted actor created according court documents filed week
Alfonso Ribeiro actor played Carlton show one several performers sued video game makers recent months saying dances purchased performed avatars games stolen Mr Ribeiro sued Epic Games maker Fortnite Battle Royale well TakeTwo Interactive Software makes NBA 2K16
But copyright office convinced Mr Ribeiro called Carlton Dance enthusiastically swings arms sways hips eligible copyright protection saying simple routine complex enough clear bar
That surprise least said Robert Brauneis codirector intellectual property program George Washington University Law School
Its like word short phrase Professor Brauneis said The copyright office always taken position words phrases copyrightable exactly like word phrase dance You could repeat word phrase indefinitely Im shaking hips Im shaking hips repetition doesnt make fragment subject copyright protection
Courts bound copyright offices decision could reach different conclusion Professor Brauneis said copyright offices determination would taken consideration
Mr Ribeiros lawyer David L Hecht said planned ask copyright office reconsider even individual movements considered simple way clients arranged movements considered choreographic works
Its combine notes musical composition said Those compilations would entitled copyright protection law
Mr Hecht said Mr Ribeiro submitted three copyright applications Two rejected one still consideration Mr Hecht said request copyright rapper 2 Milly rejected tried register Milly Rock ask copyright office reconsider But clients better luck Russell Horning teenager known Backpack Kid able register office 30second dance Mr Hecht described variant dance called Floss
Epic Games TakeTwo Interactive declined comment Friday


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Richard PérezPeña Stephen Castle
LONDON A small influential party aligned Prime Minister Theresa Mays government suggested Friday still support plan Britains departure European Union development could doom hopes persuading Parliament pass deal next week third try
The Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland holds 10 seats 650seat House Commons But central sticking point talks British withdrawal handle border Northern Ireland Ireland partys position carries disproportionate weight others Parliament
Parliament twice rejected agreement Mrs May negotiated European Union Britains departure known Brexit times DUP voted largely concerns border issue
If Parliament rejects deal still possibility cliffedge Brexit short term much longer delay renegotiate agreement leave
Mrs Mays position appears grow precarious day chances winning approval Brexit deal hold power Longstanding talk could ousted party Parliament whole intensified becoming constant rumble background says
On Tuesday speaker House Commons John Bercow ruled could bring plan vote third time without substantive change On Wednesday delivered speech blaming Parliament paralysis angering lawmakers sides
On Thursday European Union leaders agreed postpone March 29 departure date rejected prime ministers request threemonth delay giving next week win parliamentary approval deal come alternative April 12
If deal agreed Parliament Britains exit pushed back May 22 On Friday came blow Democratic Unionist Party Monday lawmakers try seize control Brexit policy Mrs May
Nigel Dodds leader DUPs caucus Parliament said statement posted partys website inexcusable Mrs May met blocs leaders major concessions
The government far willing capitulate securing necessary changes would get agreement House Commons said
His party many others support withdrawal contend Mrs Mays deal could leave Britain trapped making subject European Union economic rules indefinitely And treating Northern Ireland differently rest nation say deal risks splitting United Kingdom apart
Nothing changed far Withdrawal Agreement concerned Mr Dodds said We accept deal poses longterm risk constitutional economic integrity United Kingdom
Mrs May planned try third vote Parliament would need win votes 70 members That considered tall order even Mr Doddss message several Brexit supporters prime ministers Conservative Party said would follow DUPs lead
She still days win critics unlikely take Mr Doddss statement partys final word But another blow capping frenetic week setbacks
With Mrs Mays leadership questioned fellow Conservatives third rejection plan would increase pressure resign Her shifting signals might proceed defeat alienated lawmakers
She little room error Conservatives short majority able govern recently support Democratic Unionists
On Monday Parliament scheduled consider could first major step toward taking control process away government It vote whether hold rapidfire series votes specific alternatives plan
A similar proposal defeated last week two votes 314 312 Mrs Mays standing improved since
Having Parliament state preferences could allow form crossparty consensus emerge favor form Brexit keeps closer ties European Union Mrs May party would like That would require reopening negotiations bloc would mean long delay
European leaders made clear doubt Parliament approve Mrs Mays plan one reason willing grant short postponement The extension makes April 12 new date Britain leave union Parliament rejects deal Mrs May create credible alternative
Leaving without pact place Europe would upend Britains trade relationships experts say would serious economic damage prospect prime minister used pressure want soft Brexit Brexit
But hardcore Brexit supporters like idea nodeal withdrawal insist predictions harm wrong leaving little incentive support Mrs May
Meanwhile proEuropean Conservatives regard abrupt chaotic departure dread may motivated turn vote Monday exert parliamentary control
Under new timetable Parliament approves Mrs Mays deal Brexit take effect May 22 giving Britain time work details
The alternative European Union officials said long delay possibly two years Britain rethink position possibly restart negotiations



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maggie Astor
The House Oversight Reform Committee investigating allegations voter suppression Georgia Secretary State Brian Kemp since become governor
The investigation revealed letters committees Democratic leaders sent Wednesday Mr Kemp successor secretary state Brad Raffensperger The letters instructed Mr Kemp Mr Raffensperger Republicans provide March 20 wide range documents concerning voter roll purges holds placed voter registration applications polling site changes closings votingrelated issues
The committee also requested documents related potential conflict interest Mr Kemp faced administering election candidate
The Committee particularly concerned reports Georgians faced unprecedented challenges registering vote significant barriers casting votes tenure secretary state 2018 election Representatives Elijah E Cummings committee chairman Jamie Raskin head Subcommittee Civil Rights Civil Liberties wrote Mr Kemp
Mr Kemp Republicans committee immediately dismissed investigation political effort aimed undermining results election Democrats lost
Make sense people issues ideas shaping American politics newsletter
The letter outlined several points scrutiny 2018 governors race Stacey Abrams Democrat posed strong challenge Mr Kemp normally solidly Republican state
Many voters especially heavily AfricanAmerican counties waited polling places hours hundreds available voting machines sat unused government warehouses letter noted State officials sequestered machines response federal lawsuit said vulnerable hacking
Tens thousands voter registration applications mostly AfricanAmericans held state law requires name application exactly match name applicants government ID even missing hyphen cause problems
Mr Kemps office purged 14 million voters rolls tenure States required keep rolls uptodate remove people moved including Georgia much zealous others starting purging process basis voter cast ballot recently And county state officials closed 200 polling places 2012 2018
Throughout campaign Mr Kemp denied intentional voter suppression Asked comment Wednesday spokesman directed The Times video news conference Mr Kemp suggested investigation politically motivated distraction important issues
They need quit playing politics Mr Kemp said news conference pivoting attack House Democrats giving billions dollars disaster aid Puerto Rico farmers fixing lose farm He said nothing substance allegations document requests spokesman respond followup email
Mr Raffensperger current secretary state said received letter office looks forward open dialogue thorough process
Mr Cummings Mr Raskin Democratic committee leaders immediately available interviews Wednesday But decision open investigation evidence House Democrats newly empowered November election intend act aggressively issues like allegations voter suppression back burner first two years Trump administration
Representative Jim Jordan committees ranking Republican said spokesman highly unusual congressional committee involve states election
This squarely purview state Georgia House Oversight Committee Mr Jordan said statement We cant help think attempts Democrats insert committee states business attempt relitigate election result like
Mr Kemp narrowly defeated Ms Abrams ended campaign declaring This speech concession concession means acknowledge action right true proper




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos
WASHINGTON A powerful Democratic House committee chairman investigating possible abuses governments security clearance process stepped demands Friday see key documents interview potential witnesses White House light new report President Trump personally intervened grant soninlaw topsecret clearance despite legal national security concerns
The chairman Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland leads House Oversight Reform Committee accused White House new letter stonewalling requests information implied comply voluntarily would issue subpoena compel cooperation
He said report published The New York Times added new concerns Mr Trump lying public role clearance process existing broader questions irregularities surrounding access sensitive government secrets
If true new reports raise grave questions derogatory information career officials obtained Mr Kushner recommend denying access nations sensitive secrets Mr Cummings wrote letter Pat Cipollone White House counsel The letter went ask President Trump concealed role overruling recommendation General Kelly Mr McGahn felt compelled document actions office continuing withhold key documents witnesses Committee
The report The New York Times said Mr Trumps intervention concerned senior administration officials John F Kelly White House chief staff documented action contemporaneous internal memo said ordered grant Mr Kushner topsecret clearance
The Times also reported Donald F McGahn II White House counsel wrote memo documenting concerns raised CIA officials Mr Kushner Mr McGahn memo noted recommended giving broad access governments secrets
Mr Trump told The Times January Oval Office interview role Mr Kushners clearance
Mr Cummings pursuing reported irregularities White House Trump transition team since 2017 Republicans control House But started broad inquiry last month taking control oversight panel Congresss muscular investigative body said hoped would shine light national security risks may exist
He specifically requested information clearances nine current former administration officials including Mr Kushner Among whose clearances intends scrutinize Mr Trumps current former national security advisers John R Bolton Michael T Flynn onetime staff secretary Rob Porter former senior director National Security Council Robin Townley former deputy national security adviser K T McFarland well Sebastian Gorka former deputy assistant president
Mr Cummings also asked documents related review security clearance process Mr Kelly conducted 2018 concluded serious flaws system meant vet highlevel officials And Mr Cummings wants talk personnel White House Personnel Security Office
The White House said Friday thus far complied
In sign House Democrats would seek elevate issue oversight agenda Representative Adam B Schiff California chairman House Intelligence Committee said Thursday panel responsible overseeing American intelligence agencies would work Mr Cummings
Mr Schiff called Mr Trumps actions latest indicator presidents utter disregard national security men women sacrifice much every day keep us safe
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Kenneth P Vogel
WASHINGTON Michael D Cohens congressional testimony Wednesday revived questions whether President Trump broke law failing disclose footed bill hush payment pornographic film actress
Members House Oversight Reform Committee grilled Mr Cohen served decade presidents socalled fixer 130000 payment made 2016 presidential election actress keep quiet claim affair Mr Trump
Mr Cohen testified reimbursed installments Mr Trump company Trump Organization starting early 2017 payment actress Stormy Daniels
But Mr Trump failed list arrangement outstanding debt owed Mr Cohen financial disclosure statement submitted June 2017 government ethics laws requiring top federal officials divulge detailed information finances On 2018 form included footnote listing repayment 100001 250000 Mr Cohen raising questions whether 2017 filing improperly omitted debt Democrats pounced omission Wednesday
Donald Trump inflated value assets documents given Deutsche Bank Michael Cohen testified
Why think president provide accurate information 2017 financial disclosure form Representative Carolyn B Maloney Democrat New York asked Mr Cohen What trying hide
Mr Cohen responded Mr Trump trying avoid publicly revealing payments reimbursement funds I extended behalf
Mr Cohen asserted later Mr Trumps goal providing reimbursements installments order hide payment
The hush payment become increasing problem Mr Trump initially said 2018 unaware payment Ms Daniels He later acknowledged existence payment series Twitter posts asserted payment nothing election could considered undisclosed campaign contribution
Last year Mr Cohen contradicted pleading guilty litany charges including violating campaign finance laws connection hush payment
In congressional testimony Wednesday Mr Cohen elaborated payment scheme motivation It either somebody wire funds purchase life rights story Ms Clifford going end sold television would embarrassed president would interfered election Mr Cohen said referring Ms Daniels whose legal name Stephanie Clifford
He produced financial records showing fronted 130000 home equity line well two 35000 checks one Mr Trump one account linked business said among 11 payments reimburse hush payment
Ultimately said paid 420000 year connection hush payments explained included funds allow pay taxes payment 60000 bonus
All done express direction Mr Trump Mr Cohen testified We discussed said Everything go Mr Trump approved Mr Trump
The testimony seemed buttress claims Democrats government watchdog groups Mr Trump knowingly made false statement United States government omitting debts owed Mr Cohen 2017 personal financial disclosure statement
This congressional oversight actually yielding new evidence wrongdoing highest level government thats something congress supposed system checks balances said Noah Bookbinder executive director Citizens Responsibility Ethics Washington
His group filed complaint last year Justice Department Office Government Ethics asking investigation whether Mr Trump failed disclose debt And Wednesday said look like technical paperwork violation really goes issue keeping voters knowing need know make educated decisions


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maureen Dowd
Opinion Columnist
WASHINGTON Donald Trump specializes spectacular breakups
First Ivana Then Marla Now comes trouble paradise Kim
Last fall Trump cooed North Korean dictator wrote beautiful letters fell love president canceled lunch date following disappointing rendezvous Hanoi
Yet crazy tabloid splits international spats seem pallid comparison pathetic spectacle Congress Wednesday heartbroken ex publicly bitterly processing relationship Trump
This time wasnt lust betrayal secrets splayed across Page Six This time Congress part investigation could lead legal jeopardy Trumps impeachment president
In testimony Michael Cohen called fool came Trump I ignored conscience acted loyal man I Cohen said A fool love held thrall Trump How could anyone held thrall sleazy goofball much less offer take bullet make 500 threats behalf
It seems unbelievable I mesmerized Donald Trump I willing things I knew absolutely wrong said Cohen Goodfellas accent adding around icon intoxicating
Mr Trump enigma Cohen said He complicated I
Actually Trump simple grasping money attention fame The enigma Trump cut lap dog brutally Cohen fell embrace Robert Mueller New York federal prosecutors Trump often compared mob boss Michael Corleone would never turn loyal capo one crossed
The portrait Cohen drew Trump surprising It apparent time president con man racist cheat liar See Jared Kushner security clearance
What compelling congressional hearing portrait sadistic relationship sycophant sociopath
Cohen told House Oversight Committee working Trump made feel involved something greater somehow changing world
Threatening sue people take away livelihoods ruin reputations isnt exactly Greenpeace Doctors Without Borders But Cohen chugging Trump KoolAid He saw Trumps protector thugs thug
In late 2017 appeared get misty talking Vanity Fairs Emily Jane Fox Trump One man wants much good many detractors needs support He vowed would never walk away Trump matter A year ago even shopped around book meant rebuttal Michael Wolffs Fire Fury pitched family fixit guy titled Trump Revolution From Tower White House Understanding Donald J Trump
He understands Trump
A stung Trump went tweet storm Friday morning bringing book proposal calling love letter Trump manuscript noting Written submitted long Charlottesville Helsinki phony reasons going rogue Book exact opposite fake testimony lie
Unlike many Republican TV commentators wash away past sins Sarah Palin Iraq war get big payday liberal love trashing Trump Cohen destined reputation rehab
The problem nutshell Trump biographer Timothy OBrien told The Times Michael Cohen wasnt Roy Cohn The latter Trump lawyer one helped shape Trumps character lack thereof drumming winatallcosts mentality Donald learned fathers knee
Trump bleated Wheres Roy Cohn anger Jeff Sessions recusing wanted lawyer whipsmart amoral ruthless predatory Cohen merely Renfield Trumps Dracula gratefully eating insects fiends bidding
Trump used Cohen dirty deeds done dirt cheap ACDC sang
The Wall Street Journal reported Trump showed late Cohens sons bar mitzvah made belittling speech come Cohen begged everyone around The Times revealed last April Trump regularly threatened fire Cohen quoted Roger Stone saying Trump mocked Cohen overpaying Trump real estate
With exceptions inner circle family Trump doesnt give loyalty deserve Thats Republicans Hill obsequiously stand eventually learn wasnt worth Cohen warned
Loyalty rare commodity Washington And Cohen wretched sycophant political history That honor goes Andrew Young slavishly devoted aide John Edwards 2008 campaign served driver personal shopper handyman butler North Carolina senator
When Edwards affair campaign videographer Rielle Hunter pregnancy ensued persuaded Young say father Edwards also got Young go lam wife nurse Hunter baby hiding fancy hotels posh home near Santa Barbara odyssey financed Young Bunny Mellon As Young wrote The Politician inside campaign cultlike atmosphere encouraged extreme sycophancy
When Trump gave tour campaign headquarters Trump Tower summer 2016 introduced Cohen lawyer Cohen looked furtive standing around Trump favorites Corey Lewandowski Hope Hicks young guys desk whole bunch Trump portraits cutouts wall pictures Trumps vanquished primary rivals
It least presidential campaign headquarters ever drywall still unfinished places As The Times reported Cohen pushing years Trump president jealous attention Trump gave Lewandowski
When Trump somehow stumbled presidency family think Cohen snuff come Washington much less get highlevel job like chief staff dreamed The Journal reported Cohen guests even get priority access inaugural fetes
He central casting Trump Tower 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Trump biographer Michael DAntonio told The problem course much burdens Cohen exactly Trump liked past He willing awful command done countless times making countless enemies As someone target behavior I tell cartoonish ridiculous
Everyone disposable Trumpworld They sidelined fixer By time federal prosecutors investigating Cohens hush payments Trump inamoratas adultfilm actress former Playboy model Trump barely speaking Cohen
Boss I miss much said rare phone call Trump The Journal reported I wish I Its really hard
The yearning even palpable texts Jeff Bezos Lauren Sanchez
The selfstyled protector purdah resented
If Trump sophisticated ability think long term would anticipated Cohen might become problem didnt hold close OBrien told But Trump isnt longterm thinker
Hes never deal people faceplanted coming back haunt ever Hes people decades OBrien said The difference He never law enforcement turning people essentially weaponizing
DAntonio agreed president made mistake disrespecting Cohen believed purchased Michael would stay bought When underdog turns bites hard overdog always surprised
I invite follow Twitter MaureenDowd join Facebook
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion sign Opinion Today newsletter
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
He said working Donald Trump intoxicating Were feeling hung
By Michelle Cottle
Ms Cottle member editorial board
Liar liar pants fire
It Representative Paul Gosar Republican Arizona burst forth playground taunt Michael Cohen longtime fixer personal lawyer President Trump appeared Wednesday House Oversight Reform Committee talk former boss
But Mr Gosars observation isolated zinger encapsulation partys overarching approach Mr Cohens testimony It also provides pretty good sense minds hearing likely change era bitter polarization tough bring clarity swirl controversies engulfing president
As spectacle opening Washington 12 time zones away Hanoi president wrapping friendly dinner Kim Jongun tyrannical leader North Korea Mr Trump hopes pageantry peacemaking Asia overshadow damaging testimony former confidant written lying rat
We await results Mr Trumps Mr Kims negotiations We hope edifying House hearings
Oh India Pakistan possessed nuclear weapons engaged escalating hostilities including downing two Indian warplanes Wednesday
This world live
On Capitol Hill committee Republicans waste time disputing Mr Cohens characterization Mr Trump racist con man cheat At one point Representative Mark Meadows asked Lynne Patton AfricanAmerican woman worked Trump family party planner serves administration stand behind citing proof president possibly racist Thats substantive pushback got
Instead Republicans stuck discrediting vivisecting witness Member member detailed Mr Cohens financial fraud tax evasion professional disloyalty course previous lies Congress The committees ranking Republican Jim Jordan highdudgeon dangerously overcaffeinated seemed particularly troubled origins authenticity Twitter account Women Cohen pushed ridiculous flattery Mr Cohens manliness sexy handsome
Message Mr Cohen liar swindler narcissist felon fool would listen Multiple Republicans fact went length disgrace Democrats provided platform scoundrel
While quibbling details Mr Cohen disagree Republicans critique Early often acknowledged done bad things soon would spending time prison He however one point feel moved observe Mr Jordan
I find interesting sir colleagues one question far asked President Trump Thats actually I thought I coming today
Aware credibility problems Mr Cohen showed hard proof Trumpian misdeeds personal check president allegedly used reimburse Mr Cohen payment Stormy Daniels evidence Mr Trump arranged portrait purchased charity auction straw buyer repaid Mr Trumps charitable foundation letters Mr Trump instructed Mr Cohen write warning presidents high school colleges College Board release grades test scores without permission
Mr Cohen noted threatening people Mr Trumps behalf integral part job estimating decade called upon around 500 times
The whole dreary spectacle produced fresh tidbits Mr Cohens claim Mr Trump year term explicitly directed lie presidents involvement hushmoney scheme none seem likely alter competing narratives pushed presidents critics allies Alexandria OcasioCortez Democrats star freshman laid groundwork demanding presidents tax returns issuing future subpoenas Trump lackeys Mr Cohen suggested federal prosecutors New York investigating asyetunrevealed Trumpian crimes He also ominously fretted I fear loses election 2020 never peaceful transition power
Mr Cohen said working Mr Trump intoxicating But something changed Mr Cohens performance likely first many soulbarings play hearing rooms courtrooms coming months
I regret day I said yes Mr Trump said I regret help support I gave along way
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
letters
Readers discuss Mr Cohens credibility critique questioners
To Editor
Re Cohen Accuses Trump Lies CoverUps front page Feb 28
The political theater display Wednesdays hearing revealed much state country character deeds Michael Cohen Donald Trump It wrenching hardtoswallow exposé polarizing blasé political legal cultural climate allowed likes Michael Cohen operate thrive long Mr Trumps personal fixer intimidator enabler We beginning see consequences
We see meaningful correction country whole willing deal root causes pervasive dysfunction
Angel Kozeli MozinaBoston
To Editor
Michael Cohens credibility rests corroborating documentation brought His portrait president matches perfectly everything know man oratory actions tweets
Peter ClothierLaguna Beach Calif
To Editor
Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez put colleagues shame She demonstrated hearing entail Be prepared ask factual questions listen The rest committee members lot learn
Kay DormanLong Beach Township NJ
To Editor
Re Republican Offers Appointee Living Proof Trumps No Racist news article Feb 28
Representative Mark Meadows ashamed best friends black stunt former Trump Organization employee black appear hearing The mere fact thinks thats probative issue racism demonstrates doesnt get
Lawrence WeismanWestport Conn
To Editor
I know live age facts alternative facts news fake news Michael Cohens testimony lies somewhere mans land myth reality It poorly scripted badly acted effort look sincere time settling scores Shakespeare right It tale full sound fury signifying nothing
Bernard F DickTeaneck NJ
To Editor
As I listened Representative Elijah Cummingss closing remarks I could imagine comments coming previous Republican chairmen Oversight Committee likes Trey Gowdy Darrell Issa Jason Chaffetz So imbued grace remarks Mr Cummings devoid polish signs preparation piercing haunting cry better America stood stark difference party Donald Trump whose members demonstrated could evince belligerent snark ad hominem attacks utter lack concern truth
Jack SwansonIrvine Calif
To Editor
Despite ranting raving pounding table Republican members House Oversight Committee implied agreement everything Michael Cohen said questioning facts
Its great see parties agreement
Jon MeyersonBeverly MeyersonSarasota Fla
To Editor
President Trumps signature 35000 check points possibly committed crime office The thing hush money scheme likely crime got office Had Stormy Daniels scandal hushed theres good chance would lost election That takes possible crime whole new level Its old campaign finance violation
Vicki Riba KoestlerAlexandria Va
To Editor
The irony Republican representatives trying smear Michael Cohen testimony quoting newspaper articles fake media rich The media fake theyre How convenient
Susan M BrantingColumbia Md
To Editor
I delighted see vigorous insistence truthtelling Republican members House Oversight Committee questioning Michael Cohen Maybe get used
Alan GotthelfNew York
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Too many representatives chose bloviate instead interrogate except one
By Caroline Fredrickson
Ms Fredrickson president American Constitution Society
On Wednesday Michael Cohen President Trumps onetime personal lawyer fixer testified front House Oversight Reform Committee says variety shady practices participated working president People around country awaited riveting testimony going far join watch parties bars
But like many congressional hearings fireworks quick flame Even tantalizing opportunity grill Mr Cohen myriad ways former boss likely sought evade law avoid creditors many members committee parties could resist usual grandstanding
Consider line questioning Alexandria OcasioCortez New York She asked Mr Cohen series specific questions Mr Trump handled insurance claims whether provided accurate information various companies To knowledge asked Donald Trump ever provide inflated assets insurance company He
She asked whether Mr Trump tried reduce local taxes undervaluing assets Mr Cohen confirmed president also done You deflate value asset put request tax department deduction Mr Cohen said explaining practice These sort questions answers committee supposed elicit Somehow newer members got memo
Get personal less conventional take political developments newsmakers cultural milestones Frank Brunis weekly newsletter
Ms OcasioCortez continued asking Do think need review financial statements tax returns order compare She pressed Mr Cohen names others would able corroborate testimony provide documents support charges In response Mr Cohen listed executives Allen Weisselberg Ron Lieberman Matthew Calamari names thanks part Ms OcasioCortez probably hear coming months
These questions random rather well thought Like good prosecutor Ms OcasioCortez establishing factual basis committee investigation She asked one question time avoided longwinded speeches asking question listened carefully answer gave basis followup inquiry As result Mr Cohen gave specific answers Mr Trumps shady practices along road map find Mr Cohen began testimony calling Mr Trump con man cheat In five minutes Ms OcasioCortez actually helped lay facts substantiate charges
Unfortunately colleagues followed suit In testimony Mr Cohen claimed numerous ethical breaches criminal acts part president many Mr Cohen apparently served main actor He spoke illegal campaign payoffs rigging electoral polls threatening people crossed president possible witness tampering even falsifying financial records He spoke conduct office would cross even generous reading ethical legal boundaries
All areas offered fruitful avenues exploration But instead asking probing questions eliciting damning evidence Mr Cohen many committee members chose make speech Jeffrey Toobin The New Yorker tweeted frustration Bipartisan incompetence questioning cohen hearing All make speeches fail listen answers follow He tweeted sample followup questions hoping desperately someone might try He give credit several members understand art questioning including Representatives Katie Hill Jackie Speier But shocking members actually understand basic function hearing chose ignore collective goals favor showboating
As someone worked Hill nonprofit advocate I accustomed frustration opportunities lost questions asked witnesses allowed get away without really answering question Often stakes low cost great
But Committee Chairman Elijah Cummingss outstanding closing remarks made clear face nation consequential president faces multiple inquiries possible collusion foreign power need members Congress Ms OcasioCortez many followers social media I hope colleagues start follow example hearing room
Caroline Fredrickson crfredrickson president American Constitution Society author Under Bus How Working Women Are Being Run Over forthcoming The Democracy Fix How Win Fight Fair Rules Fair Courts Fair Elections
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement












Paul Manaforts Trail Scandals
My Dead Dads Porno Tapes
Ten Meter Tower
Between Sound Silence
Coal Miner Trump Coal Mining Isnt Coming Back
House Tour Cary Leibowitz
Sanctuary City Hotline
2011 Arab Spring
Can The President Be Impeached We Answer Your Questions
Calving Season
Michael D Cohen former lawyer fixer President Donald J Trump took stand Wednesday February 27 2019 testify publicly Mr Trump House Oversight Committee
This part destiny Cummings tells Cohen
I want point single questioner Democratled House asked Cohen relationship Sean Hannity described legal client court New York
Ooh good point Maggie
What day
And Cummings brings gavel hearing close
Cohen back Capitol Hill tomorrow testifying behind closed doors House intelligence committee
This astonishing day congress one without precedent Cummings gave Cohen powerful cinematic final statement cap said Cohen swarmed people middle hearing room tries exit
I agree Maggie We grown accustomed since Trump came national stage extraordinary political moments Even context today sure feels like one Michael Cohen one Trumps closest aides rebuked oath Congress warned threat American democracy implicated sitting president criminal activity campaign office
A forceful closing statement Chairman Cummings call action We Got Get Back Normal This hearing adjourned
There going days debate Cohen said His comments Donald Trump Jr dismissed presidents allies aides His comments Roger Stone Wikileaks objected Stone Trump interview weeks ago But checks Cohen brought indisputable
And checks reimbursements hush money signed president son chief financial officer company
Cohen painted picture line mob boss US president
And Republicans doubt landed blows Cohen I sure undercut enough negate evidence concrete elements testimony
I agree Nick
I hope folks check Peter Bakers Nicks story day find
wwwnytimescom20190227uspoliticsmichaelcohentestifiestr
Thanks reading along folks Not sure next time quite like hope see
This key aspect Cohens testimony Trump lawyer
Statement Jay Sekulow Counsel President
Todays testimony Michael Cohen attorneys President edited changed statement Congress alter duration Trump Tower Moscow negotiations completely false
And really signing Thanks folks
Advertisement
Supported
It apparently legal presidents soninlaw serve top White House adviser But grant immunity
By The Editorial Board
The editorial board represents opinions board editor publisher It separate newsroom OpEd section
For President Trump era congressional oversight shaping family affair three eldest children Donald Jr Ivanka Eric risk getting swept multiple investigations But none Trump clan may face thorough goingover Jared Kushner presidents soninlaw top White House adviser
Mr Kushner week among long list Trumpworld intimates asked provide documents House Judiciary Committee looks possible presidential misdeeds
This request landed continuing tussle heating Mr Kushner House Oversight Reform Committee examining claims Mr Trump arranged soninlaw granted topsecret security clearance objections intelligence officials
In cases White House signaled intent defy Congress arguing executive privilege legislative overreach On Monday White House counsel Pat Cipollone sent letter oversight committee chairman Elijah Cummings rebuffing request effectively daring start issuing subpoenas Mr Cummings said would confer colleagues determine comes next
However Democrats proceed Mr Kushners peculiar role fatherinlaws White House prompted widespread concern broader specific generic questions accountability competence often raised raw nepotism
Unease Mr Kushners access secret information appears go beyond politics Mr Trumps intelligence officials said balked idea giving soninlaw access Donald McGahn stint White House counsel
Mr Trump overrode advice ordered Mr Kushners clearance granted last May
These casual offhand objections After president made decision Mr McGahn reportedly troubled wrote internal memo detailing concerns Mr Kushner including CIA making clear recommended move
John Kelly time White House chief staff said felt similarly moved write memo stating explicitly ordered president grant Mr Kushners clearance
If true yet another point Mr Trump misled public insisting January played role arranging soninlaws clearance Just last month Ivanka Trump made similar claim asserting father involvement pertaining clearance husbands clearance zero
Those untruths nowhere near troubling fact intelligence administration officials reportedly loath grant Mr Kushner access governments deepest secrets
What CIAs specific hesitation concerning Mr Kushner topsecret information Why agency continue deny access sensitive compartmentalized information Why FBI raise questions foreign influence Mr Kushner
As The Times reported last month
The full scope intelligence officials concerns Mr Kushner known But clearance held part questions FBI CIA foreign business contacts including related Israel United Arab Emirates Russia according multiple people familiar events
Mr Kushners inaccurate statements FBI foreign interactions cause additional concern
And many many eyebrows raised Mr Kushners special friendship Mohammed bin Salman crown prince Saudi Arabia coziness strategically aggressively cultivated Saudis Out fear Mr Kushner naïve ways diplomacy foreign affairs susceptible manipulation prince Mr Kelly attempted curtail two mens private talks reinstating requirement National Security Council officials participate calls foreign leaders
No matter Mr Kushner Prince Mohammeds bond grew even withstanding conclusion American intelligence agencies prince ordered torture murder journalist Jamal Khashoggi Amid global outrage killing Mr Kushner among princes fiercest defenders
Mr Kushner lowlevel White House functionary He charged bringing peace Middle East presidents star emissary Saudi government The public compelling interest knowing made intelligence community nervous
Putting member presidents family investigatory hot seat delicate business Voters get squeamish watching politicians wife daughter soninlaw field tough questions Thats excuse letting avoid accountability
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Theyve got better things Dripping Springs
By Gail Collins
Opinion Columnist
So Michael Cohen started testimony declaring president United States racist con man cheat The Republicans supposed grilling responded saying um
Well mainly complained hearing happening I appalled We could focused actual issues facing America like border security
Nobody jumped yelled A racist How dare call man racist To fair one Republican committee member demur brought black government appointee stand look diverse
But couldnt say lot expressions shock Nobody announced good authority checks Cohen got Trump reimbursements Stormy Daniels payoff rather anonymous donations orphanage
The Republicans simply argued whole thing dumb waste time
I talked beautiful wife back Dripping Springs Tex hearing I said Dont bother watching said Representative Chip Roy
The hearing House Oversight Committee course new Democratic control Cohen showed members 35000 check said president gave partial repayment Stormy Daniels payoff
Nothing better evidence exhibit But public inured Trump scandals theres almost way raise new excitement Stormys sexwiththefuturepresident story Unless Cohen could demonstrated thenboss wrote hush money check memo
Nevertheless always new things learned
For instance Cohen testified Donald Trump Jrs role payoff deal In passing said president thought son worst judgment anyone world
Wonder Junior reacted This presumably Ivanka whos supposed bright one family denounced idea guaranteed minimum wage felt Americans want work get
Cohen claimed years serving Trumps hatchet man never heard boss say anything private led believe loved nation wanted make better
That could cue Republicans offer multitude examples contrary But part got one white male representative another announcing Cohen ignored hes due go prison lying
Almost everybody knows Donald Trump appears going prison lying Or awaiting sentencing lying Or facing charges lying If Donald Trump intimate federal authorities come calling careful tell truth Or move Papua New Guinea
Even jaded Trump watcher parts Cohen testimony worth discussing For instance said Trump threatened legal action make sure old high school colleges College Board kept grades SAT score secret
Certainly surprise Trump doesnt want publicize details academic career But still great question keep harping drive completely nuts Maybe every day House Democrats could make speech floor And introduce C student sense humor could announce hes proud following presidential footsteps intellectual mediocrity
Cohen testified Trump going back forth Forbes magazine attempt get good spot Wealthiest list While simultaneously trying push income reported tax purposes Lets hope Democrats use another lever get hands tax returns Truly would development even better calling Donald Jr testify role Cohen payments fathers assessment judgment
We certainly know Cohen perfect After spent 12 years Trumps lawyer Representative Jim Jordan top Republican committee even brought Women Cohen account put promote littleknown role sex symbol
But Cohen made pretty good witness looking appropriately miserable answering questions convincingly balance He told lawmakers rumors mystery tape showing Trump hitting wife elevator untrue opinion thats something would On hand said Trump make call Melania lie Stormy Daniels unpleasantness
While going president Asia dining Kim Jongun North Korea Previous negotiations Kim produced monster publicity little way nuclear disarmament
Nevertheless Trump seems believe may get Nobel Peace Prize He really seems want lot Maybe Nobel committee offered trade tax returns
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Gail Collins OpEd columnist former member editorial board first woman serve Times editorial page editor 2001 2007 GailCollins Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos
WASHINGTON The chairman House Oversight Reform Committee revealed information Thursday said showed Ivanka Trump Jared Kushner used private messaging services official White House business way may violated federal records laws
The chairman Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland said lawyer Ms Trump President Trumps daughter Mr Kushner presidents soninlaw senior adviser told committee late last year addition private email account Mr Kushner uses unofficial encrypted messaging service WhatsApp official White House business including foreign contacts
Mr Cummings said lawyer Abbe Lowell also told lawmakers Ms Trump preserve emails sent private account reply
Democrats barely able contain frustration see dark irony findings earlier news reports couples use private email accounts Mr Trump made Hillary Clintons use private email server secretary state central line attack 2016 campaign president Even FBI declined charge Mrs Clinton practices handling classified information Republicans Congress continued pick away case
Update The use private email chats time Trumps family comes fire
Mr Lowell could say Mr Kushner communicated classified information messaging service WhatsApp telling lawmakers pay grade He asserted Mr Kushner took screenshots communications sent official White House account National Security Council client violation federal records laws
In letter Thursday disclosing new information Mr Cummings said findings added urgency investigation possible violations Presidential Records Act members Trump administration including Mr Kushner Ms Trump He accused White House stonewalling committee information requested months ago Republicans still controlled House
The White Houses failure provide documents information obstructing committees investigation allegations violations federal records laws White House officials Mr Cummings wrote He said would forced consider alternative means obtain compliance documents requested White House communications record keeping shared committee indication could subpoena
Steven Groves White House lawyer said White House would review Mr Cummingss letter provide reasonable response due course
Mr Lowell letter accused Mr Cummings misrepresenting parts told lawmakers last year disputed suggestions either clients broken law
The oversight committee first began scrutinizing use private communications services White House 2017 amid news reports Mr Kushner used private email account government business Ms Trump done
Mr Kushners use WhatsApp also reported earlier least one instance scope previously known CNN reported October Mr Kushner communicated Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman de facto leader Saudi Arabia using WhatsApp
Mr Lowell confirmed details Mr Kushners private messaging use though communications Prince Mohammed meeting December Mr Cummings committees chairman time Representative Trey Gowdy Republican South Carolina Asked Mr Kushner cleared use messaging app communicate foreign leaders Mr Lowell recommended lawmakers ask National Security Council White House Mr Cummings said
On Thursday Mr Lowell said contrary Mr Cummingss letter asserted confirmed presidents soninlaw communicating WhatsApp foreign leaders merely messaged people More broadly Mr Lowell said told lawmakers privy many details Mr Kushners use WhatsApp instructing question White House counsel
Mr Lowell also took issue Mr Cummingss account said Ms Trump
In letter Mr Cummings said speaking Mr Lowell believed Ms Trump could also potentially violation Presidential Records Act use private email account Specifically said Mr Lowell told committee although Ms Trump forwards workrelated emails received personal account official government account responds message
Mr Lowell though said oversimplifying response In exchange highlighted chairman referring Ms Trumps practices September 2017 said Since said always forwards official business White House account
Mr Cummingss committee separately investigating circumstances Mr Kushner Ms Trump administration officials received security clearances The New York Times reported last month Mr Trump personally intervened secure topsecret clearance Mr Kushner despite legal national security concerns raised advisers
Mr Kushner Ms Trump appear current former White House officials Mr Cummingss sights personal email use He wrote Thursday also obtained documents apparently showing K T McFarland used personal AOL account official business served deputy national security adviser Stephen K Bannon done White House adviser
Mr Cummings set April 4 deadline White House comply latest requests To extent though remains seen
The White House generally resistant far satisfy requests House Democrats
On Thursday White House counsel Pat Cipollone rejected another request Mr Cummings chairmen Intelligence Foreign Affairs committees information Mr Trumps private communications President Vladimir V Putin Russia In letter said Constitution courts granted president broad authority conduct foreign policy presidents parties rightly fought protect communications foreign leaders
While respectfully seek accommodate appropriate oversight requests unaware precedent supporting sweeping requests Mr Cipollone wrote
Maggie Haberman contributed reporting
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maggie Haberman Annie Karni
WASHINGTON In waning days 2016 presidential campaign Donald J Trump turned focus FBI investigation Hillary Clintons use private email server secretary state suggesting bigger Watergate
Her criminal action willful deliberate intentional purposeful said rally Phoenix Hillary set illegal server obvious purpose shielding criminal conduct public disclosure exposure knowing full well actions put national security risk
Democrats charge Mr Trumps eldest daughter husband serve aides president things pilloried Mrs Clinton
The basis accusations letter Rep Elijah E Cummings chairman House Oversight Reform Committee sent Thursday Pat Cipollone White House counsel saying Jared Kushner presidents soninlaw senior adviser used WhatsApp unofficial encrypted messaging service communicate foreign contacts official White House business
Mr Cummings also said Ivanka Trump presidents eldest daughter preserve emails sent private account claimed past contradicting previous claims possibly violating federal records laws
It first time questions raised Ms Trump Mr Kushner used private communications government roles Both used personal email accounts communicate White House officials cabinet secretaries official business But irony new accusations savored Mrs Clintons former aides
For endless faults Jared least know chutzpah means said Philippe Reines top adviser Mrs Clinton referring Yiddish word meaning gall
And theres specific Yiddish word continuing practice even Democrats took control House mashugana fits Mr Reines said referring word meaning crazy
Mr Cummings based findings Ms Trump Mr Kushner committee told couples lawyer Abbe Lowell But Mr Lowell insisted letter committee Mr Cummings twisting statements said claimed
A spokeswoman committee said confident facts described Mr Lowell would like produce documents aid investigation committee open receiving information
Republican members House Oversight Committee attended meeting Mr Lowell said internal memo late Friday Mr Cummingss letter falsely maligned Ms Trump Mr Kushner They said misconstrued mischaracterized Mr Lowell said In recollections said Mr Lowell described governmentrelated emails minimal said preserved said classified material sent
And rejected comparisons Mrs Clinton saying set private server specifically evade records requests
Ms Trump Mr Kushner past insisted equivalency Mrs Clintons use private email server served secretary state use private email accounts conduct government affairs
Everythings preserved everythings archived equivalency two things Ms Trump said interview Good Morning America last year initial reports used personal email account government work
But Mr Cummingss letter suggested reason believe case
The disclosures Mr Kushners Ms Trumps methods communication raise questions whether violated federal law preserving communications whether shared classified information nongovernment accounts kinds charges Mr Trump thought disqualified 2016 opponent enough put jail
The serious issue may much violation Presidential Records Act reason decision circumvent said Robert F Bauer served White House counsel former President Barack Obama That red flag
A White House official insisted Mr Kushner Ms Trump never improperly handled classified material
In past Ms Trump Mr Kushner claimed familiar rules applied Yet current former White House officials familiar guidance aides given said two given ample warning That includes warnings using chat apps supposed prohibited government business
The couple continued balk notion similarities circumstances Mrs Clintons There differences also lot equivalencies according lawyer familiar federal record keeping
Mrs Clintons case occurred Federal Records Act regulations promulgated State Department Mr Kushner Ms Trumps case contrast concerns Presidential Records Act passed 1978 Watergate scandal declares presidential records public property The important thing according attorneys prohibit destruction records described private
Mr Lowell said time know Mr Kushner communicated classified information messaging service WhatsApp telling lawmakers pay grade He argued Mr Kushner took screenshots communications sent official White House account National Security Council therefore violated federal records laws
But Mrs Clintons former aides said willing give Mr Kushner particular benefit doubt
WhatsApp two main uses youre trying save international data charges youre trying hide communications circumvent law said Nick Merrill spokesman Mrs Clinton I think pretty clear appeals Jared Kushner
Brian Fallon served Mrs Clintons press secretary 2016 campaign said thought Kushner lying lawyers purposes navigating tricky PR situation The idea faithfully took screenshots probably bogus
Mr Fallon also served Justice Department spokesman Obama administration said Congress could ask Facebook proof Mr Kushner took screenshots messages White House could also investigate whether screen grabs exist servers
This something country take Jared Kushner lawyers words said
The former Clinton aides also cited Mr Kushners omission dozens meetings foreign leaders including Russian contacts forms required gain topsecret security clearance omission lawyer time called clerical error And Mr Lowell statement implied someone White House misled claimed Mr Trump intervene grant clearance although specify
An earlier version article referred incorrectly timing appearance Ivanka Trump made Good Morning America The appearance came shortly reports Ms Trump used personal email account government work unrelated reports Hillary Clinton
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
My appearance Congress helped take president Will thing happen Trump
By John W Dean
Mr Dean White House counsel Richard Nixon
There several parallels testimony Congress 1973 President Richard Nixon White House Michael Cohens testimony week President Trump business practices Setting aside differences regarding got found speaking Congress multiple open closed venues criminal conduct sitting president United States This pleasant place particularly given presidents involved
There differences Unlike Mr Cohen testified public day I testified five days His prepared statement 4000 words mine 60000 words Nielsen reports 16 million people watched testimony I told 80 million people watched part mine
Polls varied widely testimony One said 50 percent Americans believed 30 percent 20 percent sure Another poll 38 percent believing president denied statement 37 percent believing The instant polls Mr Cohens testimony vary party affiliation case polls But 35 percent found credible I believe number grow
While testimony eventually corroborated secret recordings conversations made Mr Nixon witnesses made difference I surprised number people surfaced support account The I suspect happen Michael Cohen The Mafias code omertà force public service I heard one Roger Stone say go jail Donald Trump
Mr Cohen understand Mr Trump removed office defeated 2020 part testimony reminded rest life He blamed Republicans appreciated Democrats If achieves anything short discovering cure cancer always live pigeonhole How I know I still dealing
Just Mr Nixon admirers apologists Mr Trump Some people forever rewriting history try rewrite Mr Cohens expense They put words mouth never spoke They place events wasnt present locations never Some tried rewriting life rewrite
I thinking people like Mr Stone longtime Trump associate worked 1972 Nixon campaign admires former president tattoo mans likeness shoulder blades Mr Stone I never met White House indicted part inquiry special counsel Robert Mueller charges lying Congress efforts contact WikiLeaks 2016 presidential campaign
He prides political dirty trickster never met conspiracy theory believe Mr Cohen sure Mr Stone promote new conspiracy theories defend Mr Trump even means rewriting history Presidential scandals tend attract remarkable number dishonest historians
There one overarching similarity Mr Cohen I share He came understand reject Mr Trump I Mr Nixon
Mr Nixon first called regarding Watergate eight months arrests reelection committee operatives Watergate We 37 conversations I felt I confidence I tried failed get end coverup The day I told Mr Nixon cancer presidency day I met real Nixon I knew I break rank
Mr Cohen likewise come see Mr Trump true nature At end testimony House Oversight Committee sought permission read closing statement
He thanked members accepted responsibility bad behavior He told legislators Given experience working Mr Trump I fear loses election 2020 never peaceful transition power I agreed appear today This troubling actually chilling thing said five hours committee
Since Mr Cohens warning came closing words opportunity committee members ask followup questions So I doublechecked lawyer Lanny Davis I understood Mr Cohens testimony correctly Mr Davis responded He referring Trumps authoritarian mindset lack respect democracy democratic institutions
Indeed similar Mr Cohens testimony challenged authoritarian presidents United States revealing lies abuses power Mr Trump first authoritarian president since Mr Nixon neither supporters play fair Mr Cohen dealing people rest life
In fact Americans affected growing authoritarianism made Mr Trump president These people facilitated rise remain long Mr Trump gone We need pay attention
John W Dean served White House counsel Richard Nixon author Conservatives Without Conscience revising discuss Donald Trump followers collaboration Bob Altemeyer retired professor psychology University Manitoba leading expert authoritarianism
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Peter Baker Nicholas Fandos
WASHINGTON President Trumps longtime lawyer fixer accused Wednesday expansive pattern lies criminality offering damning portrayal life inside presidents orbit said advisers sacrificed integrity proximity power
Michael D Cohen represented Mr Trump decade laid Congress first time series deceptions president He charged Mr Trump lied public business interests Russia lied reporters stolen Democratic emails told Mr Cohen lie hush payments cover sexual misconduct
The accusations aired daylong hearing House Oversight Reform Committee exposed dark underside Mr Trumps business political worlds voice one ultimate insiders Perhaps close associate turned president front Congress dramatic fashion high stakes since John Dean testified President Richard M Nixon Watergate scandal
He racist He con man And cheat Mr Cohen said president Mr Cohen pleaded guilty lying oath Congress among crimes said protect Mr Trump I protecting Mr Trump anymore said
While details different portrait president broadly resembles provided others split Mr Trump including former aides business associates even onetime ghostwriter likewise described president bullies dissembles cheats serve interests
Donald Trump inflated value assets documents given Deutsche Bank Michael Cohen testified
But remained unclear whether Mr Cohens testimony would change political dynamics series scandals already polarized Washington country could lead impeachment battle year Representative Elijah E Cummings Democrat Maryland committee chairman said afterward Mr Trump may committed crime office Republicans unmoved
Assailing Mr Cohen proven liar denounced hearing charade embarrassment country orchestrated partisan Democrats seeking pretext try remove Mr Trump office Democrats said Republicans ran away truth sought defend corrupt president employed textbook mob tactics
Michael D Cohen former lawyer fixer President Donald J Trump took stand Wednesday morning testify publicly Mr Trump House Oversight Committee
The hearing took place president halfway around world Vietnam meeting North Koreas leader His family advisers expressed anger timing arguing Democrats undercutting Mr Trump sensitive nuclear diplomacy political gain
As many moments Trump era hearing seemed much partisan theater factfinding Democrats Republicans set forth conflicting narratives man served Mr Trump either duplicitous disgruntled former employee fallen sinner trying redeem coming clean
Through sat Mr Cohen 52 dark circles puffy eyes already tired eight hours testimony behind closed doors day awaiting threeyear prison term begins spring Apologizing repeatedly family Mr Cohen portrayed broken man brought hubris one point choking wiping tears eyes mention effect daughter
Through five hours nationally televised testimony Mr Cohen described years working Mr Trump trip world deceit nowdisbarred lawyer ignored conscience get close magnetic person power
Sitting today seems unbelievable I mesmerized Donald Trump I willing things I knew absolutely wrong Mr Cohen said When met Mr Trump knew real estate giant icon center action Being around Mr Trump intoxicating said
In private business Mr Cohen said rationalized Mr Trumps dishonesty trivial president said I consider significant dangerous
The presidents reelection campaign organization dismissed Mr Cohen Wednesday convicted perjurer trusted This Michael Cohen admitted lied Congress previously Kayleigh McEnany campaigns national press secretary said statement Why even bother swear time
Republicans committee aggressively challenged Mr Cohen along lines Representative Jim Jordan Ohio ranking Republican called Mr Cohen fraudster cheat convicted felon two months federal inmate
Mr Jordan questioned Mr Cohens motives assailing Mr Trumps character actions suggesting former lawyer embittered new president bring Washington
You wanted work White House Mr Jordan said
No sir Mr Cohen replied
didnt get brought dance
I want go White House Mr Cohen asserted
Eric Trump one presidents sons took issue Twitter Michael lobbying EVERYONE Chief Staff wrote It biggest joke campaign around office Did perjure
The hearing drew enormous interest Capitol Hill Democrats last month took control House pressure liberal base take Mr Trump The crowds huge sense drama palpable Lawmakers parties listened raptly Mr Cohens 30minute opening statement
Mr Cohen laid series actions Mr Trump bolster previous accusations news stories presenting documents corroborate account including copies checks issued president trust said reimbursements 130000 hush payments Mr Cohen made Stormy Daniels pornographic film actress alleged affair Mr Trump
Mr Cohen said Mr Trump candidate initiated hush payment plan president arranged 11 checks reimbursing lawyer part criminal scheme violate campaign finance laws crime Mr Cohen pleaded guilty
After news reports payments February 2018 Mr Cohen told lawmakers president called told say Mr Trump knowledgeable reimbursements wasnt knowledgeable Mr Cohens actions Mr Trump later told reporters know
Mr Trumps signature 35000 check Mr Cohen however appeared contradict Asked later reporters meant Mr Trump committed crime office Mr Cummings said Based looking checks listening Mr Cohen appears
Mr Trump likewise report debt Mr Cohen annual financial disclosure statement 2017 report paying 2018 form
Mr Cohen told lawmakers Mr Trump personally monitored negotiations build Trump Tower Moscow asking least halfdozen times January June 2016 even running president
Mr Trump knew directed Trump Moscow negotiations throughout campaign lied Mr Cohen said He lied never expected win He also lied stood make hundreds millions dollars Moscow real estate project
In previous testimony prosecution Mr Cohen lied Congress saying negotiations ended January 2016 Mr Trump explicitly instruct lie Congress Mr Cohen said actions made clear wanted lie presidents lawyers reviewed even edited Mr Cohens false statement Congress
Mr Cohen said direct evidence Mr Trump campaign colluded Russia But added I suspicions
He pointed June 2016 meeting Trump Tower Donald Trump Jr candidates eldest son Jared Kushner soninlaw Paul Manafort campaign chairman met visiting Russians told dirt Hillary Clinton Russian government
transcript
Hosted Michael Barbaro produced Rachel Quester Alexandra Leigh Young Theo Balcomb edited Lisa Tobin
In extraordinary public hearing Donald Trumps former fixer known unflinchingly loyal became star witness
michael barbaro
From The New York Times Im Michael Barbaro This The Daily Today Michael Cohen headed prison lying behalf Donald Trump Yesterday told Congress hes done protecting president Its Thursday February 28 Maggie Haberman hearing actually begin Wednesday morning
maggie haberman
The hearing began dramatic fashion Elijah Cummings chairs committee Democrat holding gavel Michael Cohen walking crush photographers reporters trailed Lanny Davis attorney sometimes spokesman trailed another attorneys member family I believe worried attending hearing He sat His face wan His eyes puffy He looked exhausted defeated beaten And could hear pin drop sat
archived recording elijah cummings
The committee come order
maggie haberman
So Cummings gate
archived recording elijah cummings
I recognize five minutes give opening statement
maggie haberman
addressed issue Michael Cohens credibility
archived recording elijah cummings
He admitted lying actions protect president Some certainly ask Mr Cohen lying believe
archived recording
Good question
archived recording elijah cummings
This legitimate question
maggie haberman
It clear Republicans going go right Cohen accusing liar somebody admitted lying including admitting lying Congress gave testimony 2017 So Cummings hoping put bed outset
archived recording elijah cummings
This important factor need weigh But must weigh must hear
michael barbaro
And Maggie I found fascinating Cummings close opening statement He delivers message straight Cohen
archived recording elijah cummings
Martin Luther King Mr Cohen said words I leave today testify He said faith taking first step even cant see whole staircase There comes time silence becomes betrayal Our lives begin end day become silent things truly matter In end says remember words enemies silence friends
maggie haberman
And quote hes trying set Michael Cohens testimony hes truthful said lie saying truth And important set way forward hearing began
archived recording elijah cummings
Raise right hand Do swear affirm testimony give whole truth nothing truth help God Let record show witness answered affirmative And thank may seated
maggie haberman
So Michael Cohen begins opening statement And long
archived recording michael cohen
I hope appearance today guilty plea work law enforcement agencies steps along path redemption restore faith help country understand president better
maggie haberman
And began apologizing lying Congress
archived recording michael cohen
I oath correct record answer committees questions truthfully offer American people I know President Trump
maggie haberman
And turned Donald Trump
archived recording michael cohen
I ashamed I chose take part concealing Mr Trumps illicit acts rather listening conscience I ashamed I know Mr Trump
maggie haberman
And depicted Donald Trump unsavory unethical immoral character
archived recording michael cohen
Mr Trump racist The country seen Mr Trump court white supremacists bigots You heard call poorer countries expletive In private even worse He asked I name country run black person wasnt expletive This Barack Obama president United States And driving struggling neighborhood Chicago commented black people could live way And told black people would never vote stupid
maggie haberman
Somebody told Oval Office Oval Office meeting would sending reimbursement hush money payments
archived recording michael cohen
Trump con man He asked pay adult film star affair lie wife I And lying first lady one biggest regrets
maggie haberman
He portrayed Donald Trump cheat
archived recording michael cohen
And come surprise one common responsibilities Mr Trump directed call business owners many small businesses owed money services told payment reduced payment would coming When I told Mr Trump success actually reveled
maggie haberman
As schemer would inflate net worth devalue depending useful various points
archived recording michael cohen
It experience Mr Trump inflated total assets served purposes trying listed amongst wealthiest people Forbes deflated assets reduce real estate taxes
maggie haberman
At one point Michael Cohen told detailed story Donald Trumps relationship Vietnam War Remember Donald Trump said deferment draft quote unquote bone spurs
archived recording michael cohen
But I asked medical records gave none said surgery He told answer specific questions reporters rather offer simply fact received medical deferment He finished conversation following comment Do think Im stupid Im going Vietnam
maggie haberman
And moment Michael Cohen looked directly camera
archived recording michael cohen
And I find ironic Mr President Vietnam right
michael barbaro
Right
maggie haberman
It damning stuff
archived recording michael cohen
A lot people asked whether Mr Trump knew release hacked documents Democratic National Committee emails ahead time And answer yes In July 2016 days Democratic Convention I Mr Trumps office secretary announced Roger Stone phone Mr Trump put Mr Stone speakerphone Mr Stone told Mr Trump gotten phone Julian Assange Mr Assange told Mr Stone within couple days would massive dump emails would damage Hillary Clintons campaign Mr Trump responded stating effect wouldnt great
michael barbaro
And brings course nowinfamous Moscow project
maggie haberman
Right
archived recording michael cohen
I lied Congress Mr Trump stopped negotiating Moscow tower project Russia I stated stopped negotiating January 2016 That false Our negotiations continued months later campaign
maggie haberman
He says know handful conversations went 2016 clear Donald Trump going Republican nominee
archived recording michael cohen
Mr Trump directly tell lie Congress Thats operates In conversations campaign time I actively negotiating Russia would look eye tell Theres Russian business go lie American people saying thing In way telling lie So clear Mr Trump knew directed Trump Moscow negotiations throughout campaign lied
michael barbaro
Cohens almost describing moment code Trump saying Russia project almost like saying theres Russia project right Youre never going say theres Russia project Its like hes trying explain foreign language Donald Trump communicating probably lie without say
maggie haberman
Thats exactly right And said testimony made clear Donald Trump talks He sort knows line doesnt speak overtly It former federal prosecutors described mob speak style mafia bosses speak avoid crossing legal line And Michael Cohen explicitly say part say Donald Trump spoke code Michael Cohen understood code
archived recording michael cohen
He doesnt give questions He doesnt give orders He speaks code And I understand code Ive around decade
michael barbaro
Maggie come surprise hear Michael Cohen saying Youve known men years And youve known unit What like hear Cohen saying things Donald Trump
maggie haberman
Even knowing coming mindblowing hearing Michael Cohen saying public No one worked Trump recent years gone record say things like And staggering And odds portrait fealty Michael Cohen presented reporters everyone toward Donald Trump decade
michael barbaro
Mmhmm
maggie haberman
And remember Donald Trump creates eagerness people around get something head pat get encouragement get attaboy Cohen got skilled trying attaboy
michael barbaro
And seemed kind addicted
maggie haberman
And seemed addicted seemed revel clearly reveled proximity
archived recording michael cohen
Over past year I done real soulsearching And I see ambition intoxication Trump power much bad decisions part I made
maggie haberman
He involved taking care messes Donald Trump wanted taken care He willing things One payoffs women And notion somebody closely involved would willing discuss publicly behind closed doors investigators prosecutors bearing freely public hearing oath breathtaking
michael barbaro
Theres moment Cohen says members committee
archived recording michael cohen
The last time I appeared Congress I came protect Mr Trump Today
michael barbaro
Today Im tell truth
archived recording michael cohen
I tell truth Mr Trump
michael barbaro
Mr Trump As say spell broken Im world And I kind wonder thats really possible also happened
maggie haberman
Well I think really possible I think break incredibly clean given happened Michael Cohen Remember FBI raided hotel apartment office April 2018 still standing Trump That clearly changed We saw Republicans argue reason changed Michael Cohen facing charges And president certainly suggested Cohen utterly stripped everything valued business law license He humiliated publicly He abandoned lot friends president presidents circle And I think certainly real split I think people going assess looking testimony whether think real conversion definitely real break
archived recording michael cohen
I perfect man I done things I proud And I live consequences actions rest life But today I get decide example I set children I attempt change history remember I may able change past I right American people today And I thank attention And Im happy answer committees questions
archived recording elijah cummings
Thank much Mr Cohen I recognize
michael barbaro
So questions begin committee members
maggie haberman
Right
archived recording elijah cummings
You said brought checks right
archived recording michael cohen
Yes sir
maggie haberman
And first Cummings asking Cohen elaborate details reimbursement checks got brought
archived recording elijah cummings
So let make sure I understand Donald Trump wrote check personal account serving president United States America reimburse hush money payments Ms Clifford telling American people today
archived recording michael cohen
Yes Mr Chairman
maggie haberman
And among dramatic moments saw Because Cummings getting fact sitting president part scheme minimum sleazy illicit maximum could criminal exposure And leaving nothing doubt Cohen saying took place
archived recording elijah cummings
Is doubt mind President Trump knew exactly paying
archived recording michael cohen
There doubt mind And I truly believe doubt minds people United States America
archived recording elijah cummings
With Ill yield
maggie haberman
Jim Jordan another ally president quoted something Michael Cohen said reporter The Daily Beast
archived recording jim jordan
I make sure I meet one day courthouse I take every penny still dont
maggie haberman
And become famous anecdote threatened reporter pursuing story old court claim divorce filing Ivana Trump Donald Trump alleged marital rape And Cohen said
archived recording jim jordan
And I come Daily Beast everybody else possibly know So Im warning
maggie haberman
So Im warning tread fing lightly wasnt fing
archived recording jim jordan
Because Im going going fing disgusting understand
maggie haberman
And asked Jim Jordan Mr Cohen said
archived recording jim jordan
Mr Cohen said
archived recording michael cohen
I
maggie haberman
And incident I think would say really Trump But way sully character create portrait thuggishness
archived recording jim jordan
And say Mr Cohen statement I read admitted saying protect Donald Trump
archived recording michael cohen
I protect Mr Trump Donald Trump Jr Ivanka Trump Eric Trump
michael barbaro
But I wonder look worse person person whose behalf done
maggie haberman
Right I understand Jim Jordan trying muddy Michael Cohen But I think people going look especially president takes Twitter suggests people ought looking Michael Cohens family I think people still going see looking worse Trump Michael Cohen Trumps lawyer
michael barbaro
So Republicans largely avoiding talking president costs hearing focusing sullying Cohens character reputation may actually sullying President Trumps
maggie haberman
Correct They essentially trying peel Cohen Trump And became clear efforts went throughout hearing impossible When somebody serve lawyer Donald Trump identified publicly 10 years cant take shot Cohen end ricochet onto Trump
archived recording
So weve established lie taxes lie banks convicted lying Congress It seems theres much wont lie stand gain
michael barbaro
And questions go
maggie haberman
So
archived recording
Everythings made lies past Im concerned lies today
maggie haberman
After became know
archived recording
But theres truth whatsoever
maggie haberman
one one line Republicans suggesting Michael Cohen
archived recording
Liar liar pants fire
maggie haberman
Really fame
archived recording
Is appearance today motivated desire remain spotlight personal benefit
archived recording michael cohen
No maam
maggie haberman
Or really money They asked
archived recording
Is book deal coming anything like
archived recording michael cohen
I book deal right
maggie haberman
One prospective book deals movie deals
archived recording
Isnt true tried sell book time President Trump entitled Trump Revolution From Tower White House Understanding Donald J Trump
archived recording michael cohen
Yes happened
maggie haberman
Or pitched book
michael barbaro
And say
maggie haberman
He said yes
archived recording michael cohen
I contacted many including television movie If want tell would like play Im happy write name
michael barbaro
And Democrats
archived recording elijah cummings
Mr Raskin
archived recording jamie raskin
Mr Cohen thank composure today Our colleagues upset lied Congress president Theyre upset youve stopped lying Congress president
maggie haberman
The Democrats tried keep really mostly Trump things Michael Cohen Trump
archived recording
And nothing Trump Organization ever done unless run President Donald Trump correct
archived recording michael cohen
Thats 100 percent certain
archived recording
OK
maggie haberman
He described really interesting described everybody solely devoted protecting brand reputation one man Donald Trump He said nothing happened company unless Donald Trump aware signed He argued Trump demanding exacting punishing boss He described entire effort maximizing goldplated version Donald Trump become familiar
archived recording
Theres recurring refrain testimony says yet I continued work But point changed What breaking point decided start telling truth
archived recording michael cohen
There several factors Helsinki Charlottesville
maggie haberman
He went litany moments said disgusted There presidents comments Charlottesville know various instance discourteous behavior president untoward behavior toward citizens
archived recording michael cohen
Watching daily destruction civility one another putting silly things like
archived recording
Oh thats silly
archived recording michael cohen
Really unbecoming Congress
maggie haberman
He clearly got angry And sort turned back Republicans said essentially
archived recording michael cohen
Its sort behavior Im responsible Im responsible silliness Because I thing youre 10 years I protected Mr Trump 10 years
maggie haberman
You I You blindly following And real risk could end like someday
archived recording michael cohen
And I warn people people follow Mr Trump I blindly going suffer consequences Im suffering
maggie haberman
It gripping captivating moment
michael barbaro
Right sort surprising level selfawareness I guess also selfloathing
maggie haberman
It It selfeffacing It clearly uncomfortable It acknowledging deeply imperfect person imperfect things proud said version earlier hearing But really striking comment Republicans opposed Donald Trump theyre many vocal anymore said repeatedly Republican Party become cult personality cult And people blindly follow along Donald Trump wants whether wise whether safe whether telling truth And Cohen getting
archived recording
What want children know
archived recording michael cohen
That Im sorry everything And Im sorry pain Ive caused And um I wish I could go back time
archived recording
Thank I yield back
archived recording elijah cummings
The gentleladys time expired
michael barbaro
Maggie I wonder feel like understand whats motivating Michael Cohen throughout hourslong hearing say hes saying concede hes conceding kind humble way Hes convicted crime Hes headed prison He disbarred What exactly animating point
maggie haberman
I think number things animating But I think among doesnt want leper story forever He said months ago want villain Trump story And I think thats feels I think want remembered footnote history I think hes going prison And I think doesnt whole lot left lose And I think would like try make people remember things tell nuanced tale
michael barbaro
And hearing mind achieve How hearing remembered larger story
maggie haberman
I think hearing either going breathtaking historical moment likes I dont know well ever see But pretty striking see Or going initial phases much broader deeper governmental investigation House Democrats Trump presidency personal activities activities government And allowing Michael Cohen setting talks things questioned key starting witness could first step paving way toward impeachment process Democrats go If ends leading something bigger Democrats feel key foundation But early say I think
archived recording michael cohen
I closing remarks I would like say Is appropriate time
archived recording elijah cummings
You
archived recording michael cohen
Thank
michael barbaro
Maggie one hearing finally come end
maggie haberman
Seven half hours Michael Cohen first entered room sitting pretty patiently questions losing temper given opportunity speak committee members president
archived recording michael cohen
In closing Id like say directly president honor veterans even rain You tell truth even doesnt aggrandize
maggie haberman
And used opportunity send message former boss saying dont need person
archived recording michael cohen
You take responsibility dirty deeds You dont use power bully pulpit destroy credibility speak You dont separate families one another demonize looking America better life You dont vilify people based God pray And dont cuddle adversaries expense allies
maggie haberman
And saying president I know saying members committee believe I say I understand man
archived recording michael cohen
So support president rhetoric I I pray country doesnt make mistakes I made pay heavy price family I paying And I thank much additional time Chairman
archived recording elijah cummings
Thank much
maggie haberman
And Michael Cohen done Elijah Cummings closed note grace toward Michael Cohen
archived recording elijah cummings
So wonder whether people believe I dont know I dont know whether believe But fact youve come head And got one hardest things could
maggie haberman
That moment Michael Cohen started crying And really hadnt done He clearly weeping
archived recording elijah cummings
I know face lot I know worried family But part destiny
maggie haberman
And Cummings basically told Cohen You heading toward light moment
archived recording elijah cummings
And hopefully portion destiny lead better better Michael Cohen better Donald Trump better United States America better world
michael barbaro
Maggie thank much We appreciate
maggie haberman
Michael thanks
archived recording elijah cummings
And got get back normal With meeting adjourned MUSIC PLAYING
michael barbaro
Well right back Heres else need know today On Wednesday Pakistan said shot two Indian fighter jets captured pilot one latest escalation hostilities two countries The attack heightening fears decadesold animosities India Pakistan could spiral war The latest episode began February 14th jihadis operating Pakistan killed 40 Indian soldiers prompting airstrikes India military response Pakistan
archived recording
NONENGLISH SPEECH Bomb blast victims INAUDIBLE
michael barbaro
Advertisement
Supported
Its another sign President Trumps weakness
By David Leonhardt
Opinion Columnist
This article part David Leonhardts newsletter You sign receive weekday
President Trumps emergency declaration border wall based obvious falsehood There emergency USMexico border And goaded declaration Sean Hannity episode makes mockery federal government
But relative scheme Trumps misbehavior emergency declaration doesnt rank high Its corruption obstruction justice Its attempt undermine Americas alliance Western Europe And doesnt even matter much immigration policy If youre trying calibrate Trumprelated outrage take deep breath morning
A presidential declaration emergency order construct wall would stupid Lawfares Quinta Jurecic wrote It would wasteful It would test limits presidents authority law question But would step toward authoritarianism Heres longer version case
Listen The Argument podcast every Thursday morning Ross Douthat Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt
This challenged courts immediately pretty easy throw thing Neal Katyal former acting solicitor general predicted Lawrence ODonnells MSNBC show last night
Trumps fake emergency sign weakness strength tweeted The New Yorkers John Cassidy He ran wall two years Republican control Congress still couldnt get financed Weak president
And Philip Klein The Washington Examiner made conservative case declaration The hope limited government conservatives emergency declaration gets quickly enjoined eventually nixed federal court At least silver lining would legal precedent would set president attempt end around Congress
The China rivalry
Ive always thought Americans would come together realized faced dangerous foreign foe colleague David Brooks writes And lo behold one China Its become increasingly clear China grave economic technological intellectual threat United States world order
I agree United States complacent geopolitical challenge China poses
If subscriber newsletter subscribe You also join Twitter DLeonhardt Facebook
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
David Leonhardt former Washington bureau chief Times founding editor The Upshot head The 2020 Project future Times newsroom He 2011 Pulitzer Prize commentary columns financial crisis DLeonhardt Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Why American conservatism Trump may learn like state
By Ross Douthat
Opinion Columnist
Since conservatism became movement 1950s American right understood defending written American Constitution unwritten one well kind cultural social constitution deeply rooted national history checks balances official political system help sustain
Under constitution America three branches government great diversity power centers religious corporate familial philanthropic Under constitution important institutions national life arent political ones theyre institutions civil society flourished conservative argument goes precisely government kept within limits state hasnt coopted crushed rivals influence power
Thus conservatives preach virtues limited government isnt Herbert Hoovers rugged individual imagine defending They envision larger communitarian panoply civic associations religious denominations charities universities private schools needs protection jealousy centralizing state And tend assume keeping American corporation embedded communitarian system better way balance productivity innovation publicspiritedness trying regulate micromanage businesses good behavior
If wanted summarize intellectual uncertainties conservatives Trump era could say right trying figure whether unwritten American constitution imagines defending still exists And doesnt failing whether means limited government slogan strategy increasingly irrelevant comes shaping society conservatives would like America
The latter argument Donald Trump implicitly pressed optimistic opponents 2016 primaries They defenders American dream conservatives long defined dark conspiratorial tones businessman rival raised set uncomfortable questions Is America still nation thriving local communities energetic civic life Is America still deeply religious country strong churches growing denominations Are American businessmen basically public spirited eager compete equal terms government removes heavy hand natural allies political movement wedded patriotism religion
For years conservative critics sociologists intellectuals acknowledging answers might countrys oncerich associational civic religious life declining dissolving corporate America embraces conservative slogans keep taxes low unions weak otherwise seems postpatriotic performatively woke silent majority hardworking pious culturally conservative bluecollar families essentially defunct
Many best conservative books last decade Coming Apart Charles Murray The Fractured Republic Yuval Levin describe emerging America doesnt much resemble Tocquevillian familychurchcommunity landscape familiar past conservative descriptions American exceptionalism The latest example Alienated America Why Some Places Thrive While Others Collapse Tim Carney mix sociology shoeleather reporting convincingly situates rise Trump context Middle Americas communitarian collapse
But accounts like Carneys acknowledge role economic forces globalization trade deindustrialization dissolution family community also tend insist contra liberals new socialist vanguard also contra Trump cultural collapse isnt primarily driven economic policy decisions cant reversed public policies programs Instead tend suggest state interventions often replace community instead strengthening cast communitarian revival necessarily local project government play best supporting dontmakemattersworse kind role
These kind arguments still continuity basic conservative posture last generations But also increasingly partisans rupture right loose group statepower conservatives hint Tocquevillian dream dying cause limited government increasingly irrelevant turn would require conservatives become comfortable using power state engaged centralized policymaking specific social cultural ends mind
This argument visible controversy surrounding Tucker Carlsons monologue month ago stirred libertarian backlash calling Republicans use government policy make American life friendlier families particularly singleearner households It also informs difference Carneys book smart rightofcenter volume moment Oren Casss The Once Future Worker The two authors share certain common ground end Carney concludes current economic social ills solved even significantly ameliorated president central government Casss whole thesis wiser policymaking could make big difference unhappy heartlanders Carney profiles
But fullest case rupture declaring era limited government offered two recent essays conservative intellectual journals Dan McCarthys A New Conservative Agenda First Things Gladden Pappins Toward Party State American Affairs Both envision conservatism oriented less toward stateasenemy stateasdanger much toward stateasshaper stateasharmonizer For instance McCarthys account economic nationalism Donald Trump transmuted something less inchoate effective
Economic nationalism tariffs It less economic nationalism takes account different needs different walks life regions country serving whole serving parts drawing together In past challenge harmonize farmers urban capital labor The challenge balance groups postindustrial classes well strengthen productive economy largely fictional economy administrators clerks All sake prosperity raw dollar terms national economy provides basis healthy culture citizens families flourish
Pappin makes similar argument political coalitions especially right adapt current challenge illiberal postliberal forces populist socialist
Rather asking question What conservativesprogressives considerable advances made certain purely practical considerations How integrity national political community assured How commercial activity technological development continue turned toward common good toward strategic advantage What reins power state ensure common good citizens
The likely answers practical questions Pappin contends require conservatives make practical use administrative state rightwing ends rather constantly returning plaintive nostalgic counterproductive calls abolition
A hostile reader essays libertarian liberal might respond vision rightwing governments seek reshape culture mediate classes resembles nothing much early20th century fascism A sympathetic reader would say plenty space statefriendly conservative politics movement conservatism Mussolini McCarthy Pappin envisioning might better described blend American Hamiltonian tradition 21stcentury update French Gaullism
And subtle reader might say theyre trying provide theory move Republican Party power tends make anyway last two GOP presidents sense big government conservatives far without strategy seriousness selfconsciousness required make project success
I enough skepticism efficacy state power uncertain project succeed But postTrump conservatives likely drawn statepower conservatism theoretical ambition sense political necessity
The earlier conservative selfunderstanding right defending nongovernmental institutions power state tacitly depended assumption many nongovernmental institutions would friendly conservative values But civil society decayed recent decades remaining power centers also become increasingly leftwing
Alreadyliberal institutions universities Hollywood big foundations mass media uniformly allied left even recent past Corporate America happily donates Republicans fears Bernie Sanders presidency cultural issues big business courts younger customers progressive lobbying propaganda In religion Catholicism Pope Francis aspires scandals permitting ease way leftward well leaving evangelical Christianity isolated bastion little cultureshaping power
Yet conservatives still win White House Congress means one power center hope control one notionally organized limit administrative state
If assume people tend seek power devise justifications seeking power plausibly exercised statepower conservatives may need strongest intellectual arguments change way right thinks state Instead limited government conservatism may give way attempt improve Trumpism clearer blueprints smarter cadres reason changes often happen political ideology people whose thinking changing feel dont choice
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTOpinion Instagram join Facebook political discussion group Voting While Female
Ross Douthat Opinion columnist The Times since 2009 He author several books recently To Change Church Pope Francis Future Catholicism You follow Twitter DouthatNYT
You follow Twitter DouthatNYT
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Eurotunnel sued Department Transport handling contracts provide extra freight capacity
By Amie Tsang
LONDON Add list headaches faced Britains government frantically tries prepare Brexit 33 million pound 44 million payment settle lawsuit brought Eurotunnel company operates rail link France Britain
Eurotunnel sued Britains Department Transport handling contracts provide extra transportation capacity event country leaves European Union without deal place
The company accused British government limiting competition open bidding contracts worth millions dollars according court filings
In December Britains government signed contracts DFDS Danish shipping company Brittany Ferries French company supply extra freight capacity bring essential goods medicines country event nodeal Brexit
The government also signed contract Seaborne Freight ferry company later found BBC run ferry service The deal came heavy criticism one lawmaker calling shell company The firm also ridiculed echoing website terms conditions business specializing takeout meals Seaborne Freight pulled contract
The government settled case Eurotunnel avoid prolonged legal tussle tries make arrangements March 29 country scheduled exit European Union
Government departments Britains businesses furiously preparing case country leaves European Union without agreement setting terms separation There fears lack clarity port arrangements could lead gridlock roads problems getting food medicine people Britain
We taking steps ensure supply chains continue function whatever circumstances departure mitigation place avoid disruption borders Stephen Barclay Brexit secretary said statement Friday
Chris Grayling transport secretary added While disappointing Eurotunnel chose take legal action contracts place ensure smooth supply vital medicines I pleased agreement ensure Channel Tunnel ready postBrexit world
Eurotunnel agreed withdraw case take unspecified actions improve security traffic flow
Eurotunnel concluded outofcourt agreement secretary state transport ensure Channel Tunnel remains preferred route vital goods travel EU UK company said
Amie Tsang general assignment business reporter based London covered variety topics including gender pay gap aviation London Fatberg amietsang
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday Want email Sign
Bipartisan negotiations forge border security deal broke yesterday potentially setting federal government another shutdown ahead Friday deadline
What happened The impasse appears center Democratic demands limit number unauthorized immigrants already country could detained Immigration Customs Enforcement officers according aides familiar talks according NYT Republicans wanted exception cap criminals Democrats said proposed 16500bed cap left enough room
Whats stake The last shutdown longest US history cost American economy 11 billion tanked President Trumps political standing public Another shutdown could cause economic harm hitting IRS tax season starts
Whats next Lawmakers could pass another shortterm spending bill though many reluctant punt final budget agreement Meanwhile Mr Trump preparing hold rally supporters El Paso Many city arent happy But really two choices according Axios shut government declare national emergency get border wall money options horrible
The Amazon founder risked embarrassment going public said extortion attempt The National Enquirer So far hes scoring big points Saturday Night Live jokes aside
His disclosure gotten results Federal prosecutors reviewing extortion claim NYT reports citing unnamed sources If The Enquirers parent company broke law would violation nonprosecution agreement paying hush money help President Trump 2016 A lawyer publishers chairman said yesterday company committed crime
And hes winning PR battle At time billionaires reviled Maureen Dowd NYT writes richest dude earth managed come traumatic week inspiring admiration Glenn Greenwald The Intercept counters would odd Mr Bezos gain pity given Amazon critical partner US government building evermore invasive militarized sprawling surveillance state
Where The Enquirer go wrong Danny Westneat The Seattle Times points picked fight head company powerful got Seattle change tax policies 3 billion tax incentives New York office space You dont pressure Amazon It goes way around Mr Westneat writes
But Mr Bezos could still lose Jon Swartz Barrons notes Amazon shares fell 26 percent Friday His handson management considered crucial success company anything pulls attention away daytoday management least concern investors Mr Swartz writes
Fears Britains withdrawal EU could roil economies officially spread across Atlantic
Wall Street warned Brexits impact With less seven weeks go UK due leave EU several SP 500 groups first time put Wall Street formal notice risks London Brussels fail reach divorce deal FT reports Companies like Lockheed Martin McCormick Expedia Cadbury spoken
Driving concern fears depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable Britain costs imported British goods could rise Theres also fear broader effect Brexit global political economic stability
American banks also nervous While US banks want Britain maintain closest possible ties EU Brexit UK banks insurers anxious dont become beholden new laws made Brussels Bloomberg reports
More Brexit news The EUs chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said reopen existing Brexit deal open reworking political declaration accompanies The British government trying secure extra two weeks win concessions Europe promising lawmakers another vote Britains withdrawal options And Prime Minister Theresa May also offered concessions opposing Labour Party break current impasse Parliament
Americans getting rude surprise Their refunds appear getting smaller despite President Trump Republicans passing huge set tax cuts year ago
How big drop The average refund 1865 84 percent smaller average refund period last year Reuters reports citing figures IRS Heather Long WaPo adds number people receiving refund fallen nearly 25 percent far The IRS warns read much figures part data result delayed processing due government shutdown
Why happening Its actually sign Americans paying taxes People generally got piece tax cut last year gradually form lower withholding paychecks Joseph Rosenberg UrbanBrookings Tax Policy Center told WaPo
People angry nonetheless The WaPo reports People already taken social media using hashtag GOPTaxScam vent anger Many blame President Trump Republicans shrinking refunds Some Twitter even said wouldnt vote Trump seeing refunds slashed
The last class tech companies gained valuations 1 billion including Uber Airbnb remade entire industries Dont expect next wave nearly flashy according Erin Griffith NYT
Who They names like Benchling Checkr Zola many create software specific industries including data analysis systems farmers background checks gig workers
Why arent exciting predecessors Ms Griffith points Uber Airbnb peers built global empires simply taking existing businesses like taxis food delivery hotels making mobile Easy opportunities disrupt traditional businesses dried forcing new companies find smaller niches
But dont underestimate potential Maybe sexy companies first wave venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded NYT But Anand Sanwal data provider CB Insights said still growing fast adding If one highmomentum companies investors going beating door much interest investing next big winner
Christine Lagarde managing director International Monetary Fund warned yesterday global economy growing slowly anticipated
She sees four big risks Trade tensions tariff escalations financial tightening uncertainty related Brexit outcome spillover impact accelerated slowdown Chinese economy clouds horizon told World Government Summit Dubai
And could spell trouble When many clouds added takes one lighting bolt start storm
But IMF thinks Fed playing smart The fact Fed put pause raising rates going provide lot support economy Gita Gopinath IMFs top economist told FT We endorse Fed view datadriven approach
President Trump expected sign executive order today meant spur development regulation artificial intelligence Cade Metz NYT writes
The news Mr Trump introduce American AI Initiative aims better educate workers field improve access cloud computing services data needed build AI systems promote cooperation foreign powers
Context AI experts across industry academia government long called Trump administration make development artificial intelligence major priority Mr Metz writes adding concerned China could surpass United States development technologies
But The order set aside funds AI research development Mr Metz adds administration provided details put new policies effect
Steve Mandel stepped head hedge fund Lone Pine Capital
Among reasons Santander rescinded offer hire investment banker Andrea Orcel Reportedly desire attend World Economic Forum Davos Switzerland
Kristina Salen former chief financial officer shopping site Etsy joined Moda Operandi luxury fashion startup CFO
The English Premier League looking America successor CEO Richard Scudamore British candidates appear uninterested job
Deals
The aluminumparts maker Arconic plans break WSJ
Apollo Global Management reportedly near deal buy Cox Enterprisess 14 regional TV stations 3 billion Reuters
The medical equipment maker Smith Nephew reportedly held talks buy NuVasive maker medical instruments spinal surgeries 3 billion FT
TPG Capital closed seventh Asiafocused private equity fund 46 billion Reuters
Politics policy
Democratic lawmakers proposing steep new taxes superrich public loves NYT
Senator Michael Bennet Democrat Colorado potential presidential candidate says cutting private health insurance part Medicare bad opening offer Politico
President Trump succeeded dividing Democrats warning socialism Hill
The biggest star Clive Daviss exclusive preGrammys gala Speaker Nancy Pelosi AP
Trade
Trade talks US China resume today Beijing Straits Times
White House officials reportedly discussed summit meeting President Trump President Xi Jinping China MaraLago next month resolve trade fight Axios
The trade agreement replace Nafta faces uphill climb Congress Axios
Tech
Some Amazon executives reportedly reconsidering decision set campus New York opponents think might bluff WSJ Recode
Huawei threatened sue Czech Republic countrys cybersecurity agency rescind warning risk company poses nations critical infrastructure NYT
Sprint accused ATT false advertising saying rival incorrectly telling customers receiving 5G data service WSJ
Tesla may finally delivering Model 3s cant keep servicing WSJ
Best rest
A new activist hedge fund Impactive Capital rarity Its female minorityled WSJ
Household staples diapers baking soda may get expensive WSJ
US colleges raised 467 billion year ended last June led Harvard 14 billion Bloomberg
Heres rundown 100 sustainable US companies according Barrons Barrons
How Feds recent Uturn rates cascaded global markets NYT
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ivan Nechepurenko
MOSCOW Russian lawmakers moving restrict freedom speech passed bills Thursday would introduce jail terms fines insulting government online spreading socalled fake news
The bills seen effort preempt control public criticism Russias prolonged economic stagnation pushes Kremlins approval ratings They reflect nearly twodecadelong project President Vladimir V Putin put information flow state control push made difficult growth internet
The new measures await final passage upper chamber parliament Mr Putins signature He expressed support restrictions insulting state online
One set bills passed lower house Duma would subject private individuals fines 3000 15 days administrative arrest insulting government online Individuals would face fines 6000 posting termed fake news
Another bill would demand news media outlets websites remove information shows clear disrespect society state symbols Russian Constitution government Internet service providers website owners would one day remove insults face complete block
Lawmakers also passed bill would force websites immediately remove false publicly important information government watchdog deems threat public order
The measures stipulate clearly would considered fake news The authors said interviews would determined state prosecutors government communications watchdog
Critics said measures loosely defined allow government block information online finds undesirable
With bills wording vague possible Vladimir A Ryzhkov opposition politician said Facebook create possibilities widest possible arbitrariness law enforcement As result societys trust government fall public atmosphere poisoned
As Russians switch television largely controlled state Kremlin allies internet main source information government made keeping web control top priority
In February lawmakers proposed creating infrastructure separate Russia global internet altogether Last year state banned Telegram popular messaging app
The Russian government opened assault socalled fake news even United States accused Moscow engaging practice disinformation campaign intended sway 2016 American presidential election
The new bills passed Russians trust government agencies Mr Putin particular steadily declining For first time since annexation Crimea 2014 number Russians say country heading wrong direction surpassed say opposite The finding came poll conducted January independent pollster Levada
The share people approve Mr Putins work president declined 20 percentage points since reached postCrimea peak 86 percent 2015
Nikolai F Uskov editor Forbes Russia magazine frequent commentator said bills governments weapon media
The government clearly getting ready protest moods grow reflected publications social networks media said speaking Ekho Moskvy radio station I dont think save state added wave anger sweep away restrictions
Follow Ivan Nechepurenko Twitter INechepurenko


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By David Zucchino Fahim Abed
KABUL Afghanistan Afghanistans coalition government fired Tuesday commissioners directed fraudtainted parliamentary elections last fall country prepares presidential race summer watches leaders sidelines peace talks unfold Americans Taliban
The move follows push opposition politicians postpone election form interim government part peace deal could include Taliban President Ashraf Ghani fumed governments exclusion AmericanTaliban talks insisted election held time
The firings came series meetings government civil society groups political parties portrayed badly needed consensus electoral reform The commissioners called dismissal political decision officials hope serve new government
The election already pushed back April July The panel behind decision Independent Election Commission one two whose members removed Tuesday
Replacement commissioners named Mr Ghani coalition partner Abdullah Abdullah charged preparing presidential election feature men candidates
Mr Ghani said central government strong mandate negotiate behalf country The Taliban dealing directly Americans refused include Afghan government consider illegitimate
Zalmay Khalilizad leader American delegation said last week hoped secure peace deal July election He said last month United States Taliban agreed principle framework peace deal
The Afghan election commission widely accused sowing confusion disarray October parliamentary elections three years late tainted accusations voterigging bribery incompetence Winners certified third 250 seats Parliament
The attorney generals office prosecuted 313 people accused violations including forging selling election stickers national ID cards needed cast vote
In statement late Tuesday office said 12 commissioners two election bodies barred leaving country investigators appointed look charges abuse authority
The firings set legal confrontation dismissed members saying move violated election law
The amendment election law presidential decree president also candidate Constitution commissioners said joint statement This political decision legal constitutional one
Mr Ghanis deputy spokesman Shahhusain Murtazawi said election results remain place He said protests could lodged second affected commission called Independent Election Complaint Commission judicial groups The head commissions secretariat remains place acting director
Given officials administered election fired roughly 2000 losing candidates expected protest If results reexamined canceled would affect preparations presidential election already behind schedule assurance required funding place
One losing parliamentary candidate Fawad Aman said anyone seated Parliament would remain cloud suspicion And commissioners punished said Afghans could lose faith electoral process refrain voting
If dismissed prosecuted means political game president influence election commissions presidential election Mr Aman said
Nayim Ayubzada head Transparent Election Foundation Afghanistan independent election monitoring group said firings made hastily government paid little attention legal process addressing fraud accusations
We worry decision president candidate may things turn things favor Mr Ayubzada said If decides hastily election issues raise questions transparency elections
Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah appoint new heads members commissions selected candidates put forward civil society groups political parties within next week
Supporters firings said necessary make commissioners accountable bungling expensive election process secured Afghan forces amid raging war Each Afghan election bankrolled international donations proved least problematic last
The 2014 presidential election fraudulent two leading candidates claimed victory nearly tore country apart prompted Western officials step mediators John Kerry secretary state negotiated powersharing government top two candidates Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah promise would prioritize election reforms avoid another fiasco
The two men slow make progress reforms given infighting government war Taliban Now Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah get name new commissioners oversee election peak summer fighting season peace process plays
Those challenges left many Afghans skeptical new commissioners Mr Ayubzada election observer said doubted presidential election would even held year process overshadowed ongoing peace talks political dealing
Mujib Mashal contributed reporting Kandahar Afghanistan




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Tuesday Want email Sign
Democratic Republican negotiators said last night agreement principle border security funding could keep federal government open
The deal includes 138 billion pay 55 miles new fencing technology staffing border protection Its 57 billion President Trump demanded build 200mile wall Democrats waived demand limits detention capacity immigrants
But theres guarantee go The House Senate would vote pact Mr Trump would sign I think everyone say Good work Representative Kay Granger Texas one Republican negotiators said Still rally Texas last night Mr Trump insisted build wall And influential Republican commentators like Fox News host Sean Hannity called deal garbage compromise
The remaining alternatives hugely unattractive Politico notes potential White House plan redirect unspent federal funds toward wall would create firestorm And another government shutdown could hit US economy endanger aviation safety
The British prime minister scheduled update lawmakers later today progress negotiations withdrawing EU
She big favor ask Mrs May focused making changes socalled backstop exit deal designed prevent hard border Ireland Northern Ireland She made little headway Bloomberg explains plan today
Mrs May update Parliament progress talks EU outline motion shell put MPs debate Thursday office said
She expected ask Parliament restate demand remove backstop Withdrawal Agreement promise vote hasnt brought renegotiated deal back Parliament Feb 27
The aim reassure members across House Commons concerned May deliberately running clock risking potentially disastrous nodeal divorce
But EU still isnt budging Its chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said yesterday something give British side
Yet Mrs May could force plan Parliament Bloomberg explains though also admits lot could go wrong
More Brexit news Britain weakest economic growth six years last year It signed trade deal Switzerland biggest since 2016 Brexit referendum And government sued awarding contract freight shipments nodeal Brexit ferry company boats
The former Fed chairman recently sat Ray Dalio Bridgewater Capital wideranging conversation topics state US principles good government Dont time watch Here highlights
On Washington Mr Volcker lamented condition US government repeating past criticisms Youve got presidents dont seem mind either personal behavior making outrageous statements true told Mr Dalio You Congress thats unable function effectively
On Civil Service For former Fed chairman important problem solve make government work appear honorable Public administrations bad word told Mr Dalio leaving important government departments without effective leaders
What Mr Volcker He set Volcker Alliance meant help schools train future government officials Its great trick Mr Volcker said How get expertise leadership need still respect popular desire
Optimism personal finances hasnt high 16 years according study Gallup
Sixtynine percent Americans expect better time next year That two percentage points alltime high 71 percent recorded March 1998 according Gallup Thats survey carried Jan 2 Jan 10 middle government shutdown
Half respondents say theyre better year ago That figure consistently half since 2007 Gallup says
The optimism hard overstate Only 11 times 109 polls stretching back 1976 least half polled said better financial shape year prior Gallup notes Only 114 polls going back 1977 Americans optimistic personal finances coming year today
Europe sleepwalking oblivion people Europe need wake late George Soros writes opinion piece Project Syndicate
Neither leaders ordinary citizens seem understand experiencing revolutionary moment range possibilities broad eventual outcome thus highly uncertain
The next inflection point elections European Parliament May 2019 Unfortunately antiEuropean forces enjoy competitive advantage balloting
The first step defending Europe enemies internal external recognize magnitude threat present The second awaken sleeping proEuropean majority mobilize defend values EU founded
The firm said yesterday would buy Solium Capital manages stock paid corporate employees 900 million Its biggest deal major Wall Street firm since financial crisis whats rationale
The bank wants millennial wealth Soliums clients include startups like Instacart Stripe could go public multibilliondollar valuations making employees rich
Wall Street approves strategy Analysts Evercore ISI wrote yesterday Solium gives Morgan Stanley real path towards organic growth next generation clients many investors questioning Matthew Klein Barrons wrote last week millennials could hold key improving American productivity wealth
And banks seem newly hungry deals Days Morgan Stanleys acquisition BBT agreed buy SunTrust biggest bank merger since 2008 crisis Banking chiefs seem heartened loosened regulations sector eager capitalize acquisitions Wed like James Gorman Morgan Stanleys CEO told WSJ And JPMorgan Chase reportedly considered buying asset manager WisdomTree according Bloomberg
Its eight months Mario Draghis finishes nonrenewable term president European Central Bank Choosing successor important difficult WSJ reports
Investors trusted Mr Draghi WSJ says navigate toxic mix risks Europe Brexit trade wars
At least five unofficial candidates appear running replace according European officials two Frenchmen two Finns German The candidates different economic philosophies clear frontrunner
The winner might chosen balance nationalities EUs leadership rather purely merit The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo chief executive Centre European Policy Studies Brussels think tank risks Its systemically important job Europe man controls show said It go badly wrong
WSJ reporters scoured fourthquarter results US companies attempt better understand slowing Chinas economic growth
What found Many companies struggling weaker demand export manufacturers China pulling back amid fears trade tensions worsen Austen Hufford Theo Francis WSJ report Retailers companies catering Chinese consumers face signs weakness among countrys growing middle class They buying fewer cars phones traveling less
The conclusion The indications slowing growth broad still modest Mr Hufford Mr Francis write
Just half PGEs directors stand reelection year utility filed bankruptcy amid California wildfires
ColgatePalmolive named Noel Wallace COO chief executive replacing Ian Cook
GV venture capital arm Alphabet hired David Schenkein former CEO Agios Pharmaceuticals cohead life sciences
Apple named Frank Casanova longtime iPhone executive first head marketing augmented reality
Sony appointed Jim Ryan CEO PlayStation business
Deals
Colony Capital investment firm founded real estate mogul Tom Barrack explore selling assets activist hedge fund Blackwells Capital took stake Colony
SoftBanks Vision Fund led 940 million investment Nuro driverless delivery startup FT
Amazon agreed buy Eero makes wireless routers advance smarthome ambitions Reuters
Peloton makes videostreaming stationary bikes treadmills reportedly interviewing banks prepare IPO WSJ
DoorDash delivery startup reportedly process raising 500 million 6 billion valuation WSJ
Reddit raised 150 million Tencent users fear censorship Verge
Politics policy
President Trump Gov Andrew Cuomo New York meet today discuss revising cap deductions state local taxes Bloomberg
Democratic presidential contenders see small donors rather traditional wealthy backers test viability 2020 race WaPo
Contrary popular belief Mr Trumps presidency hurt Americas gun lobby NYT editorial
Trade
President Trump reportedly eager meet President Xi Jinping China discuss trade deal Bloomberg
American tariffs Chinese goods reduced two countries trade imbalance without helping US companies Axios
Chinese investments Israeli tech companies raising security concerns WSJ
Tech
Whats like contractor one Apples less glamorous offices Not much fun Bloomberg
Mars One Ventures promised oneway trips red planet bankrupt Verge
If New York doesnt want new Amazon campus Newark Bloomberg
Alphabet Microsoft discreetly warning AI could harm brands Wired
The Jeff Bezos saga
The American Media Inc lawyer reportedly sought deal Mr Bezoss private photos Amazon Kindle executive WSJ
American Media reportedly asked Justice Department whether needed register foreign agent ties Saudi Arabia WSJ
The WaPo found tricky situation reporting owners fight The National Enquirer cause battle NYT
Best rest
Could leveraged loans sink US economy FT
For two years Goldman Sachs bet companies strong balance sheets Not anymore CNBC
The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says theres mania share buybacks hes worried social consequences CNBC
Toys R Us planning comeback later year NYT
Is corporate America headed toward earnings recession DealBook
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Chinas openingup policies led improvements life business

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role posts creation
Advertisement
Supported
New Zealands prime minister moved swiftly ban weapons mass killing gunman attacked two mosques
By The Editorial Board
The editorial board represents opinions board editor publisher It separate newsroom OpEd section
The murder 50 Muslim worshipers New Zealand allegedly 28yearold Australian white supremacist long scrutinized way violent hatreds spawned staged social media internet But world learn way Jacinda Ardern New Zealands prime minister responded horror
Almost immediately last Fridays killings Ms Ardern listened constituents outrage declared within days government would introduce new controls militarystyle weapons Christchurch shooter many mass killers United States used rampages And delivered
On Thursday Ms Ardern announced ban militarystyle semiautomatic automatic weapons parts used turn rifles weapons highcapacity ammunition magazines Its us said national interest safety
Earlier week told Parliament social media sites must address ease internet used spew hate images violence We simply sit back accept platforms exist said responsibility place published said It case profit responsibility
Ms Ardern didnt propose immediate measures limit reach Facebook Twitter internet publishers obvious could done without trampling freedom speech But made clear believed social media platforms like gun manufacturers dealers bore responsibility carnage visited Christchurch many communities recent years
The new gun proposal require considerable finetuning defining becomes law New Zealands existing laws relatively lenient large percentage estimated 12 million 15 million firearms owned 250000 people registered It known many become illegal new laws
But display one deranged man weapons designed combat seemed persuade majority New Zealanders strong majority Parliament need ban rapidfiring weapons
That attitude stood stark contrast way National Rifle Association political allies United States resisted restrictions weapons like AR15 semiautomatic rifle used several mass killings
In New Zealand took one mass shooting awaken government In United States even string mass killings 26 dead school Newtown Conn 49 nightclub Orlando 58 concert Las Vegas 17 school Parkland Fla enough Nor fact 73 percent Americans say needs done curb gun violence according recent polling
The ban terrorists weapon choice one areas Ms Ardern showed leadership looks like time crisis In lieu trite messages donned black head scarf led group politicians visit victims families speaking without script school victims attended urged pupils let New Zealand place tolerance racism Ever She told grieving families We know grief walk every stage
And striking gesture refused utter name suspected killer He may sought notoriety New Zealand give nothing said Not even name
After atrocity worlds leaders unite clearly condemning racism sharing grief victims stripping haters weapons Ms Ardern shown way
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Get 3D view Chinas government plans 2019

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role posts creation
Advertisement
Supported
The journalist Maria Ressa facing criminal charges social media threats
By Kara Swisher
Ms Swisher covers technology contributing opinion writer
Harassing journalists one Rodrigo Dutertes specialties Mr Duterte strongman president Philippines going Maria Ressa former CNN reporter founder online news site Rappler two years The campaign combines criminal charges Facebook smears intended tarnish reputation spread lies work
Last week Ms Ressa spent night jail charge cyberlibel 2012 article Rappler published allegations corrupt ties businessman judge
When spoke Skype Thursday attempts silence said I adjust normal even nothing normal She added It scare meant scare everyone else
Technically spent night conference room rather cell National Bureau Investigation agents trying nice told
It perhaps small gracious act relentless assault Ms Ressa Rappler
Kara Swisher answered questions Twitter
Rappler President Dutertes brutal regime publishing articles extrajudicial killings human rights abuses In mid2017 State Union speech president struck back criticizing Rappler owned Americans investors indeed United States He attempted get license revoked Ms Ressa charged tax evasion Then arrest cyberlibel considered criminal act
While seemed tired legal roadblocks undaunted even funny spoke I think I paid bail Imelda Marcos said referring shoeloving wife longtime ruler Philippines went ignominy
It morning Manila journalism Instead adding security Rapplers offices protect 100 employees forking money pay lawyers Legal fees already account quarter operating budget said
She also contending relentless manipulation social media says governmentfriendly sources spread false information Rappler These trolls focus Facebook Filipinos get news She called foreign agent troublemaker tax cheat traitor ugly
Last week two people Ms Ressa suspects working government managed slip Rapplers building broadcast video Facebook Live outside door urging protests social media attacks Among comments feed Hang Ressa Bomb Ressa Behead
Government officials said enjoying attention She Ms Ressa reported video Facebook She already provided company copious evidence way platform abused Mr Dutertes troll army This time Facebook responded blocking user posted video 30 days may popped Facebook Singapore though
Its catandmouse game Ms Ressa said Facebook haphazard enforcing rules While individual executives helpful Ms Ressa said shes hard time dealing Facebook responded slowly
Facebook worlds largest distributor news yet refused gatekeeper told recent onstage interview And allow lies actually get playing field facts taints entire public sphere At point said Facebook take lies
As noted Thursday night A lie told million times truth On social media though like billion times
Ms Ressa said wished tried stop online abuse sooner We ignored far long lesson I learned
She said would continue try work Facebook social media outlets Looking social media feed impossible since I cant defend I watch reputation dragged said Lately Ms Ressa said attacks Twitter worsened And I weirdly pummeled platform users calling Ms Ressa con artist since I posted I speaking
To try deal Ms Ressa said thinks lot Reinhold Niebuhrs Serenity Prayer I look stuff area control like making sure staff safe business able continue said weary sigh I dont want story
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram sign Opinion Today newsletter
Kara Swisher editor large technology news website Recode producer Recode Decode podcast Code Conference contributing opinion writer karaswisher Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Charlotte GrahamMcLay
WELLINGTON New Zealand In New Zealand members public accustomed seeing top government officials grocery store street unencumbered security guards common parts world
The countrys prime minister Jacinda Ardern even jokingly recounted Stephen Colbert The Late Show approached chatty strangers shopped maternity bras
But Thursday morning government minister attacked walking work alone capital city leading Ms Ardern warn New Zealanders unusual level access countrys lawmakers taken granted
We environment New Zealand politicians accessible thats something feel proud Ms Ardern said We serve people But todays events really show take granted
The victim James Shaw 45 coleader leftleaning Green Party minister climate change told police grabbed hit Thursday morning attack leaving black eye cuts face After treated scene went attend meeting Parliament admitting examination hospital remained Thursday afternoon
Pete Huggins Green Party spokesman said Mr Shaw told police assailant knew name although officers said whether believe attack planned motivated
The episode rattled New Zealand Mr Huggins described closeknit community open society
Unlike many countries including United States Britain prime minister lawmaker accompanied roundtheclock security personnel government ministers lawmakers Residents Wellington New Zealands capital regularly see elected officials walking cycling streets alone politicians opt take public transportation rather using government vehicles
I would hate see go Marama Davidson lawmaker leads Green Party Mr Shaw said news conference Thursday
It would shame lose way people approach us access us country added Thats one things I value way politics New Zealand
The police arrested charged 47yearold man attack Mr Shaw The man police identify appear Wellington District Court Friday
Lawmakers across political spectrum joined condemning attack Wellingtons mayor Justin Lester wrote social media assailants behavior outrageous New Zealanders lucky unparalleled access elected representatives
Members public also expressed shock One Twitter user branded attack Mr Shaw assault democracy Another said hoped attack awful one canary coal mine moment New Zealand
Bryce Edwards veteran New Zealand political commentator said downtoearth qualities commanded respect New Zealanders We like politicians one us us said
While clear whether attack politically motivated lawmakers took opportunity denounce said trend toward overthetop reactions people disagreed politicians
David Parker trade minister lawmaker centerleft Labour Party cited called extreme opinion feeding political biases causing instability people fed social media platforms
Ms Ardern stopped short saying security beefed lawmakers The episode took place innercity area Wellington minutes Ms Arderns residence
Violence New Zealand lawmakers rare The last one make global headlines recent years 2016 government minister Steven Joyce hit face sex toy thrown protester episode caused mirth fury


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur
SHANGHAI The Chinese electronics giant Huawei preparing sue United States government barring federal agencies using companys products according two people familiar matter
The lawsuit filed Eastern District Texas Huawei American headquarters according people requested anonymity discuss confidential plans The company plans announce suit week
The move could aimed forcing United States government make case Chinese equipment maker publicly It part broad push Huawei defend campaign led United States undermine company Washington sees security threat Executives spoken strongly Americas actions new marketing campaigns aimed mending companys image among consumers
For many years United States officials said Beijing could use Huaweis telecommunication equipment spy disrupt communication networks The company denied allegations major wireless carriers ATT Verizon effectively prevented using Huaweis equipment result
Over past year Washington ramped pressure firm preparing take major role construction nextgeneration wireless networks around world American officials urged governments ban use Huaweis products This year Justice Department filed criminal charges company chief financial officer connection evading American sanctions Iran
A hearing set begin week Canada determine whether companys finance chief Meng Wanzhou extradited United States face charges Ms Mengs lawyers sued Canadian government police arguing circumstances arrest detention December violated rights
Many Canadians see Ms Mengs case example foreign moneys influence Vancouver
The criminal case Ms Meng United States could complicated comments President Trump White House engaged trade negotiations China While criminal cases traditionally independent matters Mr Trump indicated Huaweis fate could bargaining chip
During meeting Oval Office delegation Chinese officials last month Mr Trump said Well making decision asked would drop criminal charges Huawei part trade deal He added Well talking attorney general
A lawsuit Huawei United States expected challenge section defense spending authorization law approved last year The provision blocks executive agencies using telecom equipment made Huawei another Chinese company ZTE
According one people familiar matter Huawei likely argue provision bill attainder legislative act singles person group punishment without trial The Constitution forbids Congress pass bills
Huaweis plans final It could still decide change course file lawsuit
The United States Embassy Beijing immediately respond request comment A call placed outside business hours United States Court House Plano Tex Huaweis American headquarters answered
China announced espionage accusations former Canadian diplomat Monday days Ms Mengs extradition hearing set take place
In many ways Huawei case echoes another company aroused security concerns United States Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab
Around two years ago American officials began expressing worries Moscow could use companys software gather intelligence The company denied allegations But September 2017 Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies begin removing companys products government systems Congress codified ban spending law
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits response arguing prohibition amounted bill attainder In May judge District Columbia dismissed suits ruling Congress motivated legitimate desire protect government computer networks Russian intrusion The judge also said Kasperskys sales American government small fraction companys business ban especially harsh
An appeals court upheld ruling months later Banning Kaspersky prophylactic punitive measure judge appeal David S Tatel wrote
Given insignificant probability Kasperskys products could compromised federal systems magnitude harm intrusion could wrought Congresss decision remove Kaspersky federal networks represents reasonable balanced response Judge Tatel wrote
Raymond Zhong reported Shanghai Paul Mozur Hong Kong Alan Rappeport contributed reporting Washington
Follow Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur Twitter zhonggg paulmozur




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Azam Ahmed Kirk Semple
MEXICO CITY Mexican officials carrying Trump administrations immigration agenda across wide stretches border undercutting Mexican governments promises defend migrants support search better life
The Mexican authorities blocking groups migrants border towns refusing allow onto international bridges apply asylum United States intercepting unaccompanied minors reach American soil helping manage lists asylum seekers behalf American authorities limit number people crossing border
Breaking decades asylum practice Mexican government also allowed Trump administration send 120 men women children Tijuana await decisions asylum applications United States The program could expanded border crossings soon next week
Officials inside administration Mexicos new president Andrés Manuel López Obrador called stance migrants strategic decision anger President Trump
He doesnt believe change Mr Trumps mind contend Furthermore officials say Mr López Obrador wanted jeopardize aspects deeply interconnected relationship two countries ranging elaborate regional trading arrangements information sharing border security transnational crime terrorism So avoided bruising potentially costly public fight issue
A lifelong defender poor Mr López Obrador often refers plans Mexico grand transformation placing ambitions nation par great leaders
He burnished everyman credentials cutting government salaries flying coach around country opening opulent presidential palace public He also vastly reduced number Central American migrants Mexico deports soil
But everything transformed
Exhibit A Migrant Protection Protocols Trump administrations policy require asylum seekers remain Mexican side border await decisions fate Rights groups contend dumps migrants increasingly violent Mexico impairs access legal counsel family support United States
Mr López Obradors administration came office saying would cooperate Mr Trumps antiimmigration agenda gone along several fronts including accepting women children despite earlier promises take adult male asylum seekers
The Mexican government argued policy requiring asylum seekers wait Mexico imposed United States consented humanitarian reasons
It also true Mr López Obrador giving Mr Trumps border demands rarely saying word American president daily press briefings carries little political cost home
Read latest edition Crossing Border limitedrun newsletter life United States Mexico meet Sign receive next issue inbox
To many Mexicans fate migrants secondary domestic concerns jobs security corruption Mr López Obrador retains 80 percent approval rating despite governments willingness take back migrants applying asylum United States
If accept handful people back Mexico thats really problem us even politically said one official authorized discuss internal deliberations What really want avoid public fight Trump
But effort avoid crossborder fight Mexican government chosen politics humanitarian ideals critics contend
Mexico continuing play role US thinks contain migrant influx period said Melissa Vertiz Hernández coordinates Working Group Immigration Policy network civil society rights groups Mexico
The delicate balance United States left Mexican government without clear consistent immigration policy Mexican states municipalities along border often position fending pressure American counterparts
In Mexican border city Reynosa instance almost one allowed cross bridge apply asylum neighboring McAllen Texas They typically blocked apprehended Mexican officials forcing migrants try luck towns
In city Piedras Negras officials rounded hundreds migrants arrived caravan recent weeks kept tight watch shelter limited access outsiders advocates say After public outcry center closed many bused cities towns along border
The mayor Ciudad Juárez meanwhile threatened sue neighboring governor shipping migrants town It become game political hot potato desperate Central Americans fleeing poverty violence caught middle
Elsewhere along border shelter officials say manage lists asylum applicants name nationality age documentation assist Mexican officials complying American border patrol mandates
The Mexican government resisting Mr Trump ways official Mr López Obradors government insisted Even acquiescing Trump administration Migrant Protection Protocols done strategically according official two others briefed plan
By allowing program start San Diego Tijuana Mexican officials argued legal challenges United States go federal courts Northern District California generally seen liberal This matters time many Americans focused beat Mr Trump 2020 elections particular leveraging MexicanAmerican vote
But many activists far confident legal challenge put end program
I think incredibly risky move said Stephanie Leutert director Mexico Security Initiative University Texas Austin I dont think put countrys foreign migratory policy hands civil society organization another country
On Feb 14 civil society organization American Civil Liberties Union several advocacy groups filed lawsuit challenging Trump administrations policy A decision temporary restraining order expected coming days
The lawsuit filed behalf 11 asylum seekers returned Mexico recent weeks accuses Trump administration violating federal international migration human rights laws
Advocates contend forcibly sending asylum seekers Tijuana Trump administration plunged unfamiliar dangerous environment lives may jeopardy
Killings Tijuana skyrocketed recent years turf war local drug market In 2018 city posted deadliest year record 2500 killings
The Trump administration first announced new policy December Jan 28 head Mexicos migration agency said Mexican government imposed restrictions enactment
But Mexican officials backed many initial restrictions including refusal accept women children Trump administration officials said plan expand program ports entry along border The López Obrador administration said little publicly changes
In Tijuana several returnees three single men single woman two mothers traveling three children described confusion dismay finding Mexico
I idea Im going survive said Yanira 34yearold migrant El Salvador feared pursued people said fleeing home country
Yanira said left El Salvador three children ages 8 11 12 local gang tried recruit middle child threatened violence unless agreed
When stepped onto Mexican soil led back across border American officials broke
I cried cried recalled
Mexican officials said provide shelter care returnees essentially leaving network community groups Tijuana elsewhere state Baja California
But shelter network extraordinary pressure almostcontinual arrival migrants traveling caravans pushed centers beyond capacity
Sister Salomé Limas social worker Instituto Madre Asunta migrant shelter Tijuana said currently housing 120 women children space designed 44
Among migrants several families seeking asylum United States returned recent weeks Trump policy
Sister Salomé said shelter house families first court date United States late March After sure
Whats going happen said We dont know
Paulina Villegas contributed reporting Mexico City
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday Want email Sign
In wake two fatal crashes involving 737 Max 8 airplane shared similarities Boeing finds prosecutors regulators inspecting development processes safety assessments
A grand jury Washington DC issued subpoena dated March 11 day Ethiopian Airlines crash seeking documents least one person involved development 737 Max jets WSJ reports
The Transportation Department inspector generals office also reportedly examining planes design certification second deadly crash
An investigation The Seattle Times found FAA delegated wide responsibility 737 Max safety assessment Boeing The resulting analysis included crucial flaws according investigation
And Bloomberg reports early seven years ago FAA employees warned Boeing much sway safety approvals new aircraft
Boeing said statement Sunday aircraft certification processes well established consistently produced safe aircraft designs It added 737 Max certification program followed FAAs standard certification process
The ridehailing company start road show IPO today New York City It wont short ambition Lyft hopes achieve valuation much 23 billion
In updated prospectus Lyft said hopes raise nearly 24 billion IPO That figure close 216 billion revenue generated last year
At high end proposed stock price 68 company would valued 23 billion That would make stakes held companys founders Logan Green John Zimmer worth hundreds millions dollars apiece The company expected price offering March 28 would trade Nasdaq next day
Lyft poised become one biggest market debuts tech company since Alibaba Groups IPO 2014 Until Uber goes public later year least
But IPO without controversy Its facing backlash investors arent happy dualclass stock structure Paul Singer head activist hedge fund Elliott Management one writing FT oped
Those insight daring found business deserve respect But sell vast majority company public allowed run forever without shareholder input Public ownership must mean public accountability
The two German lenders announced yesterday formally begin merger talks Now must convince critics combining good thing
Deutsche Bank said reviewing strategic options shoring profitability growth Christian Sewing firms CEO told employees I consistently stressed consolidation German European banking sector important topic us
The combined bank would one Europes biggest 2 trillion assets onefifth private customers Germany
Going public signals deal political backing Germanys finance minister argued country needs strong national champion compete foreign banks Here FTs list key decisionmakers deal
But opposition merger strong German unions criticized plan fearing tens thousands job cuts And Elisa Martinuzzi Bloomberg Opinion warns wouldnt fix bigger problems German banking system
The Trump administrations campaign prevent countries using Huawei equipment 5G wireless networks faltered Julian E Barnes Adam Satariano NYT write
American officials pressuring threatening nations shun Huawei The push rooted US concerns Chinese telecom companies significant security threat could help Beijing spy nations
But really working Britain Germany India United Arab Emirates signaled unlikely follow Americas lead
The US campaign criticized lack evidence American intelligence briefings reportedly failed clearly show Chinese government used Huawei steal information Read five experts two senators say whether threat Some European Asian officials also believe President Trump may fully support fight
American officials want find ways curb Huaweis rise Mr Barnes Mr Satariano write including possibly restricting American companies supplying Huawei key components needs build 5G networks across world
More Huawei built operating system smartphones computers used company longer use software developed Google Microsoft
The financial sector hasnt felt impact MeToo much industries But David Gelles NYT reports lawsuit asset manager TCW could change
Sara Tirschwell created distresseddebt fund TCW fired 2017 sued firm former boss Jess Ravich CEO David Lippman She claimed dismissal retaliation reporting sexual harassment claim Mr Ravich gender discrimination breach contract
Ms Tirschwell alleges Mr Ravich pressured sex several times tenure firm The first encounter made feel according lawsuit rejection would mean end Ravichs crucial support
TCW Mr Ravich Mr Lippman denied allegations I Saras biggest supporter TCW role decision fire Mr Ravich said
So far theres talk settlement Mr Gelles writes Days court rare movement rarer still Wall Street grievances typically dealt private wire transfer dealt
Despite delivering disappointing returns investors many CEOs saw compensation climb last year according WSJ
Median compensation 132 chief executives SP 500 companies reached 124 million 2018 117 million group 2017 WSJ calculates
Most CEOs received substantial raises median 64 percent even though December stockmarket swoon meant companies finished year posting sluggish shareholder returns
Markets pretty well companies well economy held Robin Ferracone executivepay consultant told WSJ
But also said boards may thinking forward economic slowdown adding They know theyre going bring blooms rose
The shooting mosque Christchurch New Zealand designed go viral internet What
The attack teased Twitter announced online message board 8chan broadcast live Facebook Kevin Roose NYT writes The footage replayed endlessly YouTube Twitter Reddit platforms scrambled take clips nearly fast new copies popped replace
Online extremism regular extremism steroids There offline equivalent experience algorithmically nudged toward strident version existing beliefs Mr Roose adds People become fluent culture online extremism make consume edgy memes cluster harden And one erupts
But telling terrorists trolls isnt easy tech companies Christopher Mims WSJ argues Knowing online extremists erupt act violence virtually impossible broadcasts sudden acts violence hard automatically block
More needs done We need understand address poisonous pipeline extremism emerged past several years whose ultimate effects impossible quantify clearly far big ignore Mr Roose writes Its going away particularly getting better
PGE reportedly close naming Bill Johnson outgoing head Tennessee Valley Authority next CEO
Google named Scott Beaumont head greater China Korea operations chief AsiaPacific team
Stuart Benson resigned CFO MoviePass
Princeville Capital venture capital firm invests climate technology recruited Leonardo DiCaprio adviser
Deals
Fidelity National Information Services agreed buy international payments processor Worldpay 34 billion The companies
Caesars Entertainment Eldorado Resorts reportedly early merger talks Reuters
Private equity firms like KKR CVC Capital Partners reportedly interested buying Bayers animalhealth division Bloomberg
PagerDuty popular startup alerts IT workers tech problems need fixing publicly filed IPO Business Insider
Politics policy
Investors eagerly await Treasury Departments rules investing taxadvantaged opportunity zones NYT
Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro monologue questioning Muslim lawmakers loyalty US President Trump unhappy move NYT
Cindy Yang former owner massage parlor busted prostitution ring come scrutiny political activities including donations presidents reelection campaign NYT
Brexit
Prime Minister Theresa May expected put Brexit deal third parliamentary vote week likely contingent gaining backing Democratic Unionist Party FT
Meanwhile Labour Party appears set support plan would seek public vote Mrs Mays deal approved lawmakers Reuters
Trade
The US China pushing meeting late April complete trade deal negotiators still grappling details NYT
The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska sued US Treasury Department sanctions placed last year CNBC
President Xi Jinping China starts series state visits Europe week bid bolster trade continent Bloomberg
Tech
Marc Andreessen Facebook board member reportedly met Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Chris Wylie 2016 If true would suggest understood extent companys harvesting Facebook data He denies claim Observer Business Insider
In related news academic behind Cambridge Analyticas data mining sued Facebook defamation NYT
Apple making billiondollar bet take Netflix Will work NYT
Tech investors including MeToo clauses startup deals FT
Breaking tech giants suddenly become populist concept San Francisco NYT Bloomberg
Best rest
In wake admissions scandal colleges rethinking athletic special admissions WSJ
The Fed likely say later week little appetite interest rate rises year WSJ
Why successful joint ventures turn sour Its often success breeds desire control venture sought avoid Economist
The European Central Bank unhappy EUs plans increasing supervision clearing houses FT
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Andrew Higgins Mujib Mashal
MOSCOW Thirty years last Soviet troops retreated Afghanistan Russia Tuesday reasserted player region hosting talks Taliban senior Afghan politicians aimed speeding exit another superpower time United States
The talks held Moscows President Hotel owned Kremlin offered clearer view Taliban see end 18year war In room dripping chandeliers 50 delegates many flowing robes Western suits ties nearly old sometimes violent rivals faced across large circular conference table
While Afghan politicians part delegation led former President Hamid Karzai spoke protecting hard gains past two decades Taliban denounced new Afghan Constitution lays system governance built enormous cost
The Taliban representatives also offered rare look see role women While barred women public life time power said believed womens rights including education work claim met skepticism women Afghanistan
The Moscow gathering included Taliban delegation led chief negotiator Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai represented significant contact senior Afghan politicians Taliban since United States toppled hardline Islamist group power end 2001
Absent talks however Americanbacked Afghan government President Ashraf Ghani strongly criticized meeting affront designed undermine offices authority Afghan state
Mr Ghani uncomfortable position odds American backers sees moving quickly reach deal also others countrys political elite rallying around Americanled effort
What agreeing Where implementing power Mr Ghani told Afghan channel ToloNews Tuesday dismissing talks They could hold hundred meetings Afghan government Afghan Parliament legal institutions Afghanistan approve agreements paper
The delegation headed Mr Karzai consisted entirely former officials representatives political parties many involved countrys bloody civil war current members Parliament There two women group
Afghans social media critical delegation questioning whether represented Afghanistan
Those meeting Moscow pushed aside said Khaled Abedy 31 works private company Kabul Afghan capital They want build business The country isnt important I think sort meeting cant help peace process
But Atta Muhammad Noor one Afghan politicians delegation Moscow said participants considered representative Afghanistan Mr Ghanis government
We fighting 40 years people influence Ghani said Mr Noor longtime governor Balkh Province Mr Ghani dismissed last year
Speaking sidelines event said foreign forces including around 14000 American troops must leave Afghanistan But cautioned withdrawn gradually avoid repeat chaos engulfed Afghanistan abrupt Soviet pullout 1989
The talks scheduled last two days opened week American diplomats Taliban representatives ended six days negotiations Doha capital Qatar Each side said negotiations made progress toward ending conflict began United States invaded Afghanistan 2001 long terror attacks Sept 11
Both sides said agreed principle framework two issues Taliban guarantee Afghan soil would never used terrorist groups like Al Qaeda pledge United States withdraw troops But many Afghans concerned Americans might eager strike deal
The organizer Moscow talks ostensibly Afghan diaspora Russia Russian government But Afghan officials Taliban members said Kremlin playing major role orchestrating meeting behind scenes
Russia chastened damage done Soviet Union occupation Afghanistan shown interest getting involved militarily least directly But positioned force reckoned relishing Washingtons agonies hands Taliban insurgents
Russia designated Taliban terrorist organization 2003 first strongly supported American efforts purge Afghanistan extremist Islamist groups President Vladimir V Putin described threat Russias security
But amid rising Cold Warstyle rivalry Moscow Washington Russia hedged bets opening channels Taliban Moscow allowed 10member delegation Taliban still officially barred terrorists enter Russia Moscow talks
On Tuesday Afghanistan violence continued unabated The Taliban attacked police army outposts around northern city Kunduz dawn killing least 23 members Afghan security forces In Takhar Province gunmen attacked womens radio station killing two staff members
Mr Karzai made appeal end bloodshed saying Afghan soldiers Taliban fighters buried next
All around graveyards regular Afghans graves plenty Mr Karzai said The dream every mother hope every father buried
Mr Karzai first installed Afghanistans leader United States late 2001 relationship soured He visited Russia often since leaving office 2014 meetings Mr Putin officials aligned Moscows view United States must leave Afghanistan Soviet Union
Mr Stanekzai Talibans chief negotiator said speech lasting half hour group seek monopolize power inside Afghanistan He said pursuing Islamist government consultation Afghans group recognize countrys current Constitution calling copied West
Perhaps revealing part speech came described Talibans view future role Afghan women When power group sent religious police patrol streets giving lashes women among things showing ankles
We committed rights given women Islam Mr Stanekzai said Islam given women fundamental rights trade ownership inheritance education work choice partner security education good life
Considering groups history Afghan women immediately questioned statements sincerity
But Fawzia Koofi female member Afghan Parliament one two women attendance said happy heard Taliban promise women would stripped rights would allowed serve prime minister though president
However cautioned We gained much last 18 years whatever problems want go back Taliban period
Andrew Higgins reported Moscow Mujib Mashal Kabul Afghanistan Najim Rahim contributed reporting MazariSharif Afghanistan Fahim Abed Fatima Faizi Kabul Taimoor Shah Kandahar Afghanistan




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Christine Hauser
It like online matchmaking service Horse lovers want adopt wild mustang western United States browse dozens headshots
From dropdown menus choose gender color age 4yearold chestnut mare example 9yearold gray gelding Some horses training others might gentled experience handled
This Wild Horses Online part federal Bureau Land Managements online adoption service Starting month bureau trying make wild mustang adoptions attractive paying 1000 take animals gathered public land western United States part efforts manage population
The adoption program began March 12 intended encourage potential owners take leap adopting wild horses whose access pasture water challenged factors including rising population droughts said Deborah Collins bureaus outreach officer
Ms Collins said government hoped people would take fresh look owning wild horse say I got little help I go find trainer
The program first incentive type Bureau Land Management offered since Wild FreeRoaming Horses Burros Act 1971 detailed agencys duties legal custodian wild horses burros United States
Previously people adopted wild mustang paying 125 Now paid 500 front receive 500 balance prove owned animal responsibly year Ms Collins said
Carrie Jim Pacileo Powell Wyo drove six hours March 15 adoption event Rock Springs The couple already adopted two mustangs one completely trained partly trained wanted
I told husband I wanted try train completely wild Ms Pacileo said
They came home two mustangs 9monthold Remmi 11monthold Stormy
Being younger thought maybe would easier Ms Pacileo said
She said money receive adopting horses would invested equipment hay production 40 acres
I wanted like ultimate symbol America said
More 66000 wild horses 15000 burros roam 26 million acres 10 states bureaus latest data shows The ideal level populations combined 26690 according bureau
The challenge bureau balance population animals available resources public private lands Some found rambling along highways foraging backyards discovered open range emaciated dying thirst Ms Collins said
The main method population control simply move From July February helicopters chase wild horses corrals facilities made available adoption sold adopted
Last year 11000 horses burros removed public lands nearly decade bureau figures show As last month 50000 horses available adoption corrals offrange pastures longterm Ms Collins said
Some bureaus measures attracted controversy use helicopters chase animals removal horses open range primary method population control Some worried wild horses could end slaughterhouses abroad
The American Wild Horse Campaign advocacy group said statement criticizing bureauss new adoption program agency employ population control measures fertility methods The BLM adopt way situation faces stockpiling 50000 horses holding facilities said Suzanne Roy groups executive director
Ms Collins said bureau tried fertility measures including sending volunteers administer birth control vaccinations mares wild But effects vaccinations last year 18 months results adequately addressed overpopulation said
The bureaus push make adoptions enticing focused training The agency working nonprofit Mustang Heritage Foundation started Extreme Mustang Makeover national competition trainers 100 days turn wild mustang wellbehaved steed
Wild mustangs also trained federal prisons rehabilitation programs coordinated bureau
The 1000 adoption payout costs bureau half would keep animal year Ms Collins said For owners mustangs cost less keep breeds thoroughbreds quarter horses said Mary Santagata adopts buys mustangs All Kings Horses rescue organization Northford Conn
Adopted mustangs current vaccinations Ms Santagata said annual veterinary care could cost 300 problems About 50 every eight 10 weeks goes toward hooves professionally trimmed Many owners feed mustangs hay similar diet open range rather expensive grain hay said
They hardy Ms Santagata said They built survive
Other costs include adapting corrals sixfoothigh paneled fencing wild horses escape providing opensided sheds enter need shelter easily led
The expensive part owning wild horse Ms Santagata said paying experienced trainers At 41 around horses life said could handle basic gentling wild mustang When horses corrals uses soft opening approaching retreating get accustomed
You walk around see reacts said I mustangs would look months
She gradually introduces halters led around able accomplish three months said For advanced skills like riding sends mustangs professionals grown know
I look like I adopting living legend Ms Santagata said They mystical creature wild lucky ones find




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Casey
BOGOTÁ Colombia Jorge Ramos news anchor television network Univision said detained Venezuelan government confrontational interview President Nicolás Maduro Monday evening Miraflores Palace Caracas
He didnt like things asking lack democracy Venezuela torture political prisoners Mr Ramos recounted Univision broadcast said released government
Mr Ramos said detained two hours let go allowed return hotel He said government confiscated crews equipment including phones memory cards
We dont anything said They interviews
On Monday night Kimberly Breier assistant secretary state Western Hemisphere State Department said Mr Ramos detained called government release immediately
The world watching wrote Twitter
Venezuelas government dispute account Mr Ramos temporarily held appeared lay blame anchor
We dont lend cheap shows said Jorge Rodríguez government communications minister
He added Hundreds journalists come received decent treatment always give journalistic work
Mr Ramos Mexicoborn American journalist known confrontational questions particularly leaders attacked press In 2015 tangled Donald J Trump presidential candidate news conference Mr Trump eventually guards force room
Go back Univision Mr Trump said
Univision largest Spanishlanguage television network United States
Mr Maduro recently stuck friendly interviews state television outlets
But since current crisis faces major challenge Venezuelas opposition whose leader Juan Guaidó also claims presidency Mr Maduro conducted number interviews international media outlets including BBC Eurovision ABC also conducted interview Monday
In ABC interview Mr Maduro defended criticism blocking aid shipments opposition White House demanded let pass Venezuelas borders Colombia Brazil
Everything United States government done doomed failure Mr Maduro said Theyre trying fabricate crisis justify political escalation military intervention Venezuela bring war South America
Mr Ramos said showing images children eating dumpster Mr Maduro common sight Venezuela president presided shortages food medicine
He got interview Mr Ramos said Immediately afterward one ministers Jorge Rodríguez came say interview wasnt authorized
Then Mr Ramos said detained
Later Monday night Mr Ramos writes column syndicated New York Times Licensing Group told Reuters crew would deported Tuesday


video

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Best Late Night
By Giovanni Russonello
Welcome Best Late Night rundown previous nights highlights lets sleep lets us get paid watch comedy If youre interested hearing The Times regularly great TV sign Watching newsletter get recommendations straight inbox
Stephen Colbert admitted hes happy see President Trump Congress apparently nearing border security deal would help avert government shutdown But said wished could press reset political conversation
Were supposed care whether Trump Nancy lost Trump caved Nancys dancing end zone said But nothing nothing happened government 2019 affected anyone Wheres infrastructure bill Wheres immigration bill Wheres fix health care We celebrating supposed celebrating theyre close deal achieve absolute minimum government
Colbert pointed reports preparations possible border wall already damaged butterfly habitats Texas He argued Trump ought sympathy insects
After hes got lot common butterflies Theyre fragile creatures bright iridescent coloring paperthin skin Its Trump never left larval stage STEPHEN COLBERT
Colbert also tweaked Democrats showed clip Representative Nita Lowey insisting lawmakers agreed fund partial barrier wall
Oh wall barrier A clinching legal argument first made landmark case Potato v Potato STEPHEN COLBERT
Jimmy Kimmel isnt excited recent news sequel film Frozen come fall
Just Baby Shark songs finally starting get heads theres new batch Frozen songs way For dont kids Frozen streetlegal drug children thats 10 times addictive Paw Patrol gummy worms combined In one Disney finally answer question What made bunch money JIMMY KIMMEL
Trevor Noah excited Howard Schultzs middleoftheroad potential candidacy He criticized Schultz former chief executive Starbucks saying CNN town hall doesnt see race
It would like How going solve black unemployment And guy would like What mean black unemployment All I see staggering unemployment among people named Jamal Anyway February happy History Month TREVOR NOAH
Tomorrow Valentines Day St Valentine course patron saint seasonal marketing STEPHEN COLBERT
Tomorrow Auntie Annes offering special heartshaped pretzels Its great deal hopeless romantics taking dates La Guardia JIMMY FALLON
Samantha Bee went bat ambitious Green New Deal plan Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez unveiled month
On Conan Kay Jewelers Tinder Collection featured bejeweled inscriptions Please Dont Murder Me Whats Your Last Name
Bradley Cooper director star A Star Is Born The Late Show Thursday With Oscars 10 days away anticipation probably hang air
Aubrey Plaza hosting Film Independent Spirit Awards month Shes diehard fan independent cinema looking forward bringing back intimate vibe awards show televised
Plus Ideas What Watch Tonight
The 50 Best Movies Netflix Right Now
The 25 Best Films 21st Century
The Best Movies Amazon Prime Video Right Now
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Declan Walsh
CAIRO President Omar Hassan alBashir Sudan imposed yearlong state emergency dissolved federal state governments Friday attempt end months nationwide street protests shaken authority three decades rule
In televised address broadcast live presidential palace Khartoum Mr alBashir declared state emergency disbanded federal government replaced state governors military generals
Mr alBashir also said pausing ending effort amend Sudans constitution could run third term office current one ends 2020
Reuters citing presidential statement reported Friday night Mr alBashir appointed caretaker administration leaving current defense foreign justice ministers place
In speech acknowledged economic hardship triggered first protests December said protest movement hijacked elements agendas achieve zero sum scenarios
Mr alBashir wanted International Criminal Court charges war crimes ruled Sudan iron fist decades immediate implications state emergency unclear It seemed signal hardening attitude toward protests led young professionals angered economic decay corruption become hallmarks Mr alBashirs rule
The demonstrations first began Dec 19 town Atbara focused soaring bread prices They quickly grew movement calling ouster president near daily protests spreading cities across country
The protesters come across Sudanese society including sections shrinking upper middle class withered countrys precipitous economic slide Soaring fuel prices caused factories close youth employment stands 27 percent according World Bank estimates
Our country passing difficult complicated phase national history Mr alBashir said speech Friday
He blamed external factors collapse protesters say stems decades kleptocratic incompetent rule Their frequent chant marches riot police arrive tear gas sometimes bullets Just fall
Protest leaders say 1000 people arrested crackdown led feared National Intelligence Security Service Internet access restricted effort block social media posts used mostly young protesters organize demonstrations
The government said 31 people died protestrelated violence Human Rights Watch put toll 51 people killed since midDecember
On Friday Mr alBashir stumbled several times read speech In attempt mollify protesters offered prayers killed announced plans economic reform new government yet fully formed He invited opposition move forward engage dialogue regarding current issues country
In recent years Mr alBashir fired marginalized potential rivals power little long rule suggests new willingness rapprochement
Mr alBashir came power military coup 1989 since Sudan endured famines American missile strikes isolation civil war led independence South Sudan 2011 Two years International Criminal Court ordered Mr alBashir arrested charges played essential role atrocities including murder rape torture displacement civilians conflict Darfur region Sudan
In 2017 United States lifted sanctions Sudan relief failed stem steep economic decline Mr alBashir lobbied State Department remove Sudan list state sponsors terrorism factor countrys economic woes
Before televised address Sudans intelligence chief Salah Abdallah Gosh told reporters Mr alBashir would announce resignation head ruling National Congress Party
But Mr alBashir said nothing speech party activists fear state emergency could presage even harsher measures movement
In immediate aftermath speech however demonstrators appeared undeterred Videos posted social media suggested protests rule continued Khartoum



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ceylan Yeginsu
Britains chancellor Exchequer Philip Hammond delivered statement countrys economy Wednesday something fiscal nonevent specter Britains withdrawal European Union Brexit hanging every economic projection
Mr Hammonds main message could deliver funds public spending British Parliament reaches deal Brexit came day lawmakers rejected Prime Minister Theresa Mays plan large margin
With Mrs May sitting behind Mr Hammond conspicuously called lawmakers put aside differences seek compromise Brexit something neither prime minister Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn yet accepted
Higher unemployment lower wages higher prices shops That British people voted June 2016 said referring 2016 referendum leave European Union
Here five takeaways chancellors spring statement
The uncertainty surrounding Brexit slowdown global economy cut growth 2019 12 percent 16 percent projected last years autumn budget
The British economy set grow 14 percent 2020 16 percent following two years according official forecasts independent Office Budget Responsibility
One bright spot wage growth revised upward least 3 percent year work force expanding 600000 2023 Mr Hammond said
With public sector borrowing trending Mr Hammond pledged increase Brexit dividend 266 billion pounds 35 billion comes catch British lawmakers would vote pronto leave European Union deal
In statement Office Budget Responsibility attributed improved fiscal climate higher income tax receipts lower expected interest costs
Once Mr Hammond hedged good news familiar caveat Parliament first agree deal Brexit
A smooth Brexit see deal dividend economic boost free resources schools police social care areas suffered significantly decade budget cuts conservative governments austerity policy
Analysts quick point government making promises time promised spending increases failed materialize
The repeated promise austerity coming end ring hollow millions low wage disabled unemployed people see social security tax credits frozen another year April Dr MaryAnn Stephenson director Womens Budget Group said Wednesday
The government fund free sanitary products secondary schools colleges England response concerns girls missing school afford buy products Mr Hammond said
The announcement comes twoyear campaign started Amika George 19 read reports schoolgirls northern city Leeds using newspaper socks toilet paper could afford sanitary products would sometimes miss school avoid embarrassment
Its definitely really huge number Ms George said phone interview This isnt small minority people affecting Its definitely prevalent something government needs take action
Knife crime rose fourth straight year 2018 hotbutton issue days To help address additional 100 million pounds 130 million made available police forces across England Wales help tackle knife crime risen fourth consecutive year
Police funding England Wales fell 19 percent 201011 201819 National Audit Office says
The extra funding spent additional overtime targeted knife crime new violent crime reduction units Mr Hammond said
The announcement falls short 200 300 million pounds 260 million 390 million requested National Police Chiefs Council last week




Advertisement
Sophisticated surveillance domain world powers increasingly available private market Smaller countries seizing tools sometimes darker purposes
NSO private company based Herzliya Israel hired former government hackers ply trades foreign governmentsCreditCreditCorinna Kern The New York Times
Supported
By Mark Mazzetti Adam Goldman Ronen Bergman Nicole Perlroth
The man charge Saudi Arabias ruthless campaign stifle dissent went searching ways spy people saw threats kingdom He knew go secretive Israeli company offering technology developed former intelligence operatives
It late 2017 Saud alQahtani top adviser Saudi Arabias powerful crown prince tracking Saudi dissidents around world part extensive surveillance efforts ultimately led killing journalist Jamal Khashoggi In messages exchanged employees company NSO Group Mr alQahtani spoke grand plans use surveillance tools throughout Middle East Europe like Turkey Qatar France Britain
The Saudi governments reliance firm Israel adversary decades offers glimpse new age digital warfare governed rules growing economy valued 12 billion spies hire
Today even smallest countries buy digital espionage services enabling conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping influence campaigns preserve major powers like United States Russia Corporations want scrutinize competitors secrets wealthy individual beef rival also command intelligence operations price akin purchasing offtheshelf elements National Security Agency Mossad
For stories changing nature warfare sign weekly At War newsletter
NSO competitor Emirati firm DarkMatter exemplify proliferation privatized spying A monthslong examination The New York Times based interviews current former hackers governments private companies others well review documents uncovered secret skirmishes burgeoning world digital combat
The firms enabled governments hack criminal elements like terrorist groups drug cartels also cases act darker impulses targeting activists journalists Hackers trained United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople human rights workers net Cybermercenaries working DarkMatter turned prosaic household item baby monitor spy device
The FBI investigating current former American employees DarkMatter possible cybercrimes according four people familiar investigation The inquiry intensified former NSA hacker working company grew concerned activities contacted FBI Reuters reported
NSO DarkMatter also compete fiercely paying handsomely lure top hacking talent Israel United States countries sometimes pilfering recruits The Times found
The Middle East epicenter new era privatized spying Besides DarkMatter NSO Black Cube private company run former Mossad Israeli military intelligence operatives gained notoriety Harvey Weinstein disgraced Hollywood mogul hired dig dirt accusers PsyGroup Israeli company specializing social media manipulation worked Russian oligarchs 2016 pitched Trump campaign plan build online army bots avatars swing Republican delegate votes
Last year wealthy American businessman Elliott Broidy sued government Qatar New York firm run former CIA officer Global Risk Advisors said sophisticated breach company led thousands emails spilling public Mr Broidy said operation motivated hardnosed geopolitics At beginning Trump administration pushed White House adopt antiQatar policies time firm poised receive hundreds millions dollars contracts United Arab Emirates archrival Qatar
A judge dismissed Mr Broidys lawsuit suspicions grown Qatar hand operations including hacking leaking emails Yousef alOtaiba influential Emirati ambassador Washington
The rapid expansion global hightech battleground armies cybermercenaries clash prompted warnings dangerous chaotic future
Even smallest country low budget offensive capability initiate online attacks adversaries said Robert Johnston founder cybersecurity firm Adlumin key investigator Russias 2016 hacking Democratic National Committee Qatar UAE going war getting bloody
The barriers entry space getting lower lower
Before NSO helped Saudi government track adversaries outside kingdom helped Mexican government hunt drug kingpins earned hundreds millions dollars working dozens countries six continents company consisted two high school friends northern Israel one relatively mundane idea
Using technology developed graduates Intelligence Unit 8200 Israels equivalent NSA Shalev Hulio Omri Lavie started company 2008 allowed cellphone firms gain remote access customers devices perform maintenance
Word spread Western spy services whose operatives spotted opportunity At time American European officials warning Apple Facebook Google tech giants developing technologies allowed criminals terrorists communicate encrypted channels indecipherable intelligence law enforcement agencies They called phenomenon going dark
Mr Hulio Mr Lavie offered way circumvent problem hacking end points communications phones data decrypted
By 2011 NSO developed first prototype mobile surveillance tool company called Pegasus Like namesake Greek mythological winged horse NSOs tool could something seemingly impossible collect vast amounts previously inaccessible data smartphones air without leaving trace including phone calls texts emails contacts location data transmitted apps like Facebook WhatsApp Skype
Once companies invade phone Youre carrying around Avi Rosen Kaymera Technologies Israeli cyberdefense company said NSO competitors
The company soon first client Pegasus government Mexico engaged crackdown drug cartels By 2013 NSO installed Pegasus three Mexican agencies according emails obtained The Times The emails estimated altogether firm sold Mexican government 15 million worth hardware software Mexico paying firm 77 million track wide array targets every move swipe phone
NSO products important Mexicos war cartels according four people familiar Mexican government used Pegasus speaking condition anonymity discuss intelligence matters Mexican officials credited Pegasus instrumental helping track capture El Chapo famed drug kingpin convicted last month New York sentenced life maximumsecurity prison
Soon enough NSO selling governments throughout world company claiming clients every continent except Antarctica NSO products particularly Pegasus helped break terrorist cells aided investigations organized crime child abduction European intelligence law enforcement officials said interviews
NSOs first client Mexican government also using hacking tools darker purposes part broader government industry surveillance effort The government used NSO products track least two dozen journalists government critics international investigators looking unsolved disappearance 43 students even backers soda tax according Times investigations research Citizen Lab part University Toronto
Those targets subjected stream harassing text messages contained malware Some messages warned spouses affairs others relative passed away In one case government officials able infiltrate phone journalist targeted 16yearold sons
Though NSO says sells services criminal antiterrorism investigations none Mexicans known targeted suspected criminal terrorism investigations
NSO technology helped stop vicious crimes deadly terrorist attacks around world company said statement We tolerate misuse products regularly vet review contracts ensure used anything prevention investigation terrorism crime
The company established ethics committee decides whether sell spyware countries based human rights records reported global organizations like World Banks human capital index indicators NSO would sell Turkey example poor record human rights current former employees said
But World Bank index Turkey ranks higher Mexico Saudi Arabia NSO clients A spokesman Israels Ministry Defense needs authorize contract NSO wins foreign government declined answer questions company
A lawsuit alleged last year months death Saudi Arabia used NSO products spy Mr Khashoggi Washington Post columnist strangled dismembered October Saudi operatives inside kingdoms consulate Istanbul NSO denies accusation Several Mr Khashoggis closest contacts targets NSO hacking tools Citizen Lab reported Without access Mr Khashoggis devices researchers confirmed whether direct target NSO surveillance
Even cases blatant abuse NSO continued renew contracts government clients In 2013 instance NSO inked first deal United Arab Emirates Within year Emirati government caught installing NSO spyware mobile phone Ahmed Mansoor prominent human rights activist
After receiving onslaught text messages containing links Mr Mansoor frequent target Emirati surveillance grew suspicious passed texts security researchers determined links NSO lures exploited vulnerabilities Apple software take Mr Mansoors phone It researchers said sophisticated spyware ever uncovered mobile device
The discovery forced Apple release emergency patch But Mr Mansoor already fired job passport confiscated car stolen email hacked location tracked bank account emptied 140000 beaten strangers twice week
You start believe every move watched Your family starts panic said interview arrested 2017 I live
Even UAE caught spying Mr Mansoor leaked invoices showed NSO continued sell Emiratis millions dollars worth spyware services As Mr Mansoor sentenced 10 years prison damaging national unity held solitary confinement health deteriorating
A flurry news reports followed countries using NSO products spy citizens prompting company temporarily rebrand Q James Bonds gadget guru
Despite bad news coverage NSOs value continued skyrocket
Francisco Partners private equity firm purchased 70 percent stake NSO 130 million 2013 Last month NSOs cofounders raised enough money buy back majority stake NSO valuation 1 billion The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed deal making major investors including Oregon state employees pension fund Alaskas sovereign wealth fund part owners NSO according public records
The proliferation companies trying replicate NSOs success compete estimated 12 billion market socalled lawful intercept spyware set fierce competition hire American Israeli Russian veterans worlds sophisticated intelligence agencies companies poach talent one another
In late 2017 NSO executives grew concerned spate resignations Private detectives hired investigate soon found Mediterranean island Cyprus tailing group former NSO employees veterans Israels Intelligence Unit 8200 going back forth work research facility
The building owned company affiliated DarkMatter Emirati firm quietly hired Israelis develop technologies UAE conduct cyberoperations perceived enemies home abroad
DarkMatter also offices inside gleaming tower highway connecting Abu Dhabi Dubai building houses UAEs Signals Intelligence Agency Emirates version NSA
This accident DarkMatter effectively arm state worked directly Emirati intelligence operatives numerous missions hacking government ministries Turkey Qatar Iran spying dissidents inside Emirates
DarkMatter origins another company American firm called CyberPoint years ago contracts UAE help protect Emirates computer attacks CyberPoint obtained license American government work Emiratis necessary step intended regulate export military intelligence services Many companys employees worked highly classified projects NSA American intelligence agencies
But Emiratis outsize ambitions repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees exceed boundaries companys American license CyberPoint rebuffed requests Emirati intelligence operatives try crack encryption codes hack websites housed American servers operations would run afoul American law
So 2015 Emiratis founded DarkMatter forming company bound United States law lured least halfdozen American employees CyberPoint join Marc Baier former official NSA unit carries advanced offensive cyberoperations became one firms top executives
DarkMatter employed several former NSA CIA officers according roster employees obtained The Times making salaries hundreds thousands dollars year
The assumption used left NSA youd never kind offensive work Now clearly market said Mr Johnston security expert He worked militarys Cyber Command works closely NSA serving Marines
The NSA consider responsibility ensure hacking techniques taught employees used United States said
The company respond request comment spokesman Emirati government Asked whether ministry given license former Israeli intelligence operatives working DarkMatter spokesman Israeli Ministry Defense declined comment A lawyer Mr Baier also declined comment
Current former employees spy agency lifelong obligation protect United States secrets said Greg Julian spokesman NSA They also required report employment representation foreign governments two years leave agency said
Besides breaches foreign government ministries DarkMatter also broke Gmail Yahoo Hotmail accounts according former employees DarkMatter operatives posed family friends people targeted lure opening emails contained malware
Former employees said DarkMatter targeted Mr Mansoor hacking childs baby monitor eavesdrop family In another operation companys operatives pursued Rori Donaghy British activist critical Emirati government human rights record also target NSO spyware DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab Canadian research organization former employee said
DarkMatter told employees spying American citizens would limits proved empty pledge
In one operation previously reported DarkMatter subsidiary began expansive effort intercept cellular communications Qatar occasionally catching communications Americans surveillance net late 2015 One American working project said raised concerns superiors including former CIA officer charge effort The American along another pulled project asked sign nondisclosure agreement
In repeated instances DarkMatter collected information Americans second former employee said Most cases involved Americans worked foreign organizations including human rights groups DarkMatter targeted critical Emirati government former employee said
DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information applications résumés belonging Americans applied work organizations One former employee said collection accidental records expunged companys databases
In 2017 former NSA hacker began providing FBI agents information companys activities according Reuters report Foreign Policy first reported FBI investigation
The informant Lori Stroud said become concerned companys surveillance Americans She later left firm along several Americans could sure DarkMatter deliberately targeting citizens Soon FBI agents began stopping American employees airports entered United States questioned DarkMatters operations according former company employees
The Justice Departments case run prosecutors Washington focuses internet fraud possibly illegal transfer spying technology foreign country
But prosecutors face headwinds including diplomatic concerns jeopardizing United States relationship UAE influential country developed close ties Trump administration worries pursuing case could expose embarrassing details extent cooperation DarkMatter American intelligence agencies
And reality American laws governing new age digital warfare murky outdated illequipped address rapid technological advances The rules governing American intelligence military personnel provide foreign governments meant keep leash 20thcentury warfare selling missiles planes overseas training foreign forces Army tactics
But address hacking skills honed front laptop worlds advanced intelligence agencies sold highest bidder
The worst part weapons easier get said Brian Bartholomew principal security researcher Kaspersky Lab digital security company
Youve got lot people entering arena new dont play rules said Its like putting militarygrade weapon hands someone street
An earlier version article misattributed source valuation market socalled lawful intercept spyware The 12 billion market estimate cited Moodys originated company NSO Moodys
Scott Shane contributed reporting




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ashley Powers
One day 2015 Barbara Lavenders husband returned UFO conference handed business card It bore red theatercurtain background vintage microphone goldandwhite lettering read Sean David Morton Radio Host Public Speaker Author Director Screen Writer Actor The polymathic Mr Morton Jeff Lavender told wife UFO royalty
Mr Morton spent years whisking ETobsessed tourists Area 51 99 pop leveraged following stints weehours conspiracy show Coast Coast AM one point nations No 3 talkradio program He dabbled fringe arts remote viewing psychic predictions earthquakes elections stock market But time Mr Lavender saw talk Southern California Mr Morton shifted something truly fantastical instant debt relief
Hed peddling workshop called The Sovereign Factor The Revolution Starts With You nod known sovereign citizens movement A loose network perhaps tens thousands farright antigovernment extremists sovereigns share certain conspiratorial beliefs sometimes desire profit government whose legitimacy deny
Do realize read Mr Mortons workshop description ALL considered Incompetent Wards State Residents Chattel Property US Federal government declare Emancipation Learn secrets get government back life One secrets called bond process By submitting right set papers Mr Morton said could wipe mortgage tax bills student loans
Mr Mortons message appeal beyond tinfoilhat crowd In America Great Recession plenty people upsidedown mortgages student debt inclined believe anyone offering help Ms Lavender listening husband recap workshop intrigued Years earlier shed borrowed 48000 help son attend college She husband worked mortgage industry Southern California decades educational debt unfamiliar terrain I never gone college told recently I took loan I shouldnt Ms Lavender lost job deferred payments interest kept piling By time held Mr Mortons business card hands owed 70000
She realized UFO gathering unusual venue debtrelief advice Her husbands annual gettogethers XFiles crowd hobby goodnatured punch line family But size intractability loan balance weighed also trusted husband thought Mr Mortons bond process worth checking She told I think probably enticed might little tiny kick pants government
As Lavenders came discover sovereign fraudsters snakeoil salesmen time Peddling bouquet grifts varied tax fraud real estate scams prey suspicion institutions financial illiteracy greed despair You dont even buy sovereign dogma get swindled You need Ms Lavender debt From 1990 2013 farright extremists carried 600 financial schemes resulted criminal charges according researchers run US Extremist Financial Crime Database affiliated National Consortium Study Terrorism Responses Terrorism clearinghouse kind
That adds conservatively public losses 1 billion The majority perpetrators either sovereigns ideological cousins tax defiers Fraud crossburning white supremacists expression belief
Sovereigns sometimes call freemen state citizens foundational document broadly subscribe alternate version American history The tale vary sovereign sovereign goes roughly like At point corporation secretly usurped United States government went bankrupt sought aid international bankers As collateral corporation offered financiers us As sovereigns tell birth certificate Social Security card benign documents contracts enslave
There believe pathway freedom Renounce contracts otherwise assert sovereignty Mr Morton said told Social Security Administration I dont want number Then one taxman police tell Not sovereigns con men belief system lends deceit You might declare diplomat nonexistent country Mr Morton represented Republic New Lemuria Dominion Melchizedek Or start fake Native American tribe Or blow court case American flag courtroom gold fringe Some sovereigns even lashed violently law enforcement officers theyre considered domestic terrorism threat
Many sovereign myths hark back creation 1913 Federal Reserve It weird complicated instrument controlling monetary system People saw sinister author J M Berger told In recent paper Mr Berger traced circulation ideas part company named Omni Publications something like Infowars middle 20th century One Omni title The Federal Reserve Conspiracy claimed enemy aliens infiltrated banking system biographies could found Whos Who American Jewry Sovereign lore often rooted antiSemitism By 1970s intellectual father sovereign citizen movement William Potter Gale helped spread type falsehood larger audience
The founder antigovernment group Posse Comitatus Mr Gale aligned emerging movement tax protesters argued instance paying taxes form involuntary servitude In turn introduced warped version America patriots establish legal system hang defy Mr Gales specific gift wrapping nonsense enough legalese sounded real If movement offers essentially lot magic words say get trouble thats going really appeal people desperate angry Mr Berger said Mr Gales outreach success Over time line thousands tax protesters Posse members blurred
Take redemption theory popularized part Gale associate Remember corporationslashfakegovernment used us collateral According sovereign lore means government set secret accounts names Some believe contain oddly specific amount 630000 To clear pure fantasy according Internal Revenue Service
One way sovereigns try make imaginary money real abusing legitimate IRS forms Lawabiding taxpayers use Form 1099OID example report original issue discount income But sovereigns write fake OID income fake withholding order claim illegitimate refunds If file return risk least large fine Yet 2012 2014 according Treasury Inspector General Tax Administration IRS received close 7000 sham OID filings
Chronically underfunded understaffed IRS investigators refer two dozen sovereignscam cases average prosecution year The agency sometimes misses returns raise suspicion For example 2016 IRS discovered sizable redemption scheme processing 207 bogus returns disbursing 43 million Thats another reason strange theories persist begun leach sovereign network general population Sometimes improbably work
Mr Morton born 1958 comfortable childhood Northern California tutorial make sales pitch His mother Maureen Kennedy Salaman San Francisco magazine described millionaire evangelical alternativemedicine fanatic promoted questionable cancer treatments
She also member John Birch Society farright group known paranoid anticommunism stockpiled beans grains ammunition case Russian invasion In 1984 chosen vicepresidential nominee Populist Party favorite white supremacists Its presidential candidate following cycle former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke In acceptance speech warned crowd Were evil powerful conspiracy world ever known
When Mr Morton reached adulthood sold unorthodox beliefs behind suburbandad veneer flop dark hair round cleanshaven face buttondownandkhakis wardrobe He charismatic also childlike friends said ego easily bruised He branded investigative reporter within UFO world 1990s Mr Morton appeared The Montel Williams Show made outrageous claims 100 alien species visited Earth certainty Nobel laureate I got close enough one things floating around desert actually get face burned said
Even UFO enthusiasts considered kook Mr Mortons fans didnt care The truth Sean David Morton Branding prophet plumbed newage convention circuit alongside specialists animal telepathy chakras hauntings angelic gemstone messages afterlife Near end millennium convention Las Vegas blueeyed reddishhaired woman approached Back Utah Melissa Thomson grown Mormon home married 22 worked banking spare time doted pedigreed cats even serving treasurer local Cat Fanciers group The Coast Coast program escape spent hours fangirling Mr Morton frequent guest
At Las Vegas convention Ms Thomson apparently one goal meet idol It love first sight Mr Morton said She soon left husband joined Mr Morton Southern California Her oldest brother Robert told The found warned Melissa decent person But promised movie roles theyll inherit Mommys home Atherton condo Tahoe All could see dollars When got married family refused attend
Through lawyer Ms Morton declined comment Mr Morton respond multiple requests comment although said YouTube last fall The New York Times conducting massive smear campaign Unless otherwise noted quotes article court records
The Mortons lived Hermosa Beach surf spot 20 miles downtown Los Angeles Next minipalaces oatmealcolored apartment building resembled servants quarters short stroll Pacific Ocean Mr Morton welcomed new wifes bushytailed Norwegian forest cats new litter arrived dozen scampered around apartment turn oversaw administrative side Sean David Morton He shilled conspiracy fiction The Dark Prophet Veil AntiChrist CDs Everything You Wanted Know About Future Vol 2 65 newsletter thousands subscribers TOMORROWS HEADLINES TODAY
Either wasnt particularly lucrative wasnt lucrative enough replicate Mr Mortons childhood wealth From outside hard tell He always asking try help something could raise money said Susan Shumsky fellow fixture newage circuit Like Lets trip Peru I money Lets teleseminar I make money Ms Mortons pedigreed kittens sold hundreds dollars apparently kept solvent At various points also dogwalked worked Disneyland Their friend Will Chappell said It leading charge leading family She necessary accomplish goals
Early relationship website called UFO Watchdog Exposing Parasites Delusional Personalities Morons Frauds Currently Clouding UFO Issue dismantled much Mr Mortons official biography Mr Morton sued case dismissed But email included case file Ms Morton waved findings I would concerned Sean DIDNT critics Some greatest people history people attacking every step It means Sean something right trying make difference world
By 2006 couple expecting windfall Ms Salaman poor health died Mr Morton assumed hed inherit mothers fortune But relationship already frosty iced final weeks Ms Salaman didnt even want son wife visit She cut even kept 100000 trust Great Dane Duke
They went berserk Ms Mortons brother recalled Its scam scam scam
While sovereign citizen movement inherently organized members firmament become known gurus vectors spreading ideology Mr Morton often lectured Living Temple new age shop south Hermosa Beach The owner favored black Tshirt five flying saucers admonition KEEP LOOKING UP yoga music ommed clutter apothecary bottles bags herbal something miraclecleanse guidebooks cropcircle DVDs
One day likely 2008 man named Brandon Adams started showing Like Mr Morton budding sovereign amplifier much younger untucked buttondowns looked like attempt playing dressup His family ran local taxprep business His whole thing banks Mr Morton said later What considered great criminal conspiracy Internal Revenue Service banking cartels Mr Morton quickly got speaking slot
Some Mr Adamss talks recorded Pacing front dozen people scribbling phrases stick figures whiteboard wove dark tale The secret bankruptcy The peopleascollateral Then twist The banks skimming money fractionalizing every transaction make He told group could reclaim funds via Form 1099OID
From folding chair Mr Morton looking grayer rounder Montel Williams days asked Mr Adams anyone really gotten big refund way Yes Mr Adams said The funny thing watch quiet people start get theyre sure process start getting returns Laughter Theyve got mentality Im going say I got two hundred fifty grand
The audience lapped This America financial crisis The banks bailed homeowners era Tea Party rallies Occupy Wall Street encampments imminent It wasnt much leap suspect Washington cahoots likes JP Morgan Mr Adamss Living Temple talks drew large enough crowds moved bigger venue sold private coaching 200 hour It became movement really Mr Morton said Mr Adams respond multiple requests comment
In spring 2009 Mr Adamss tutelage Mortons tried OID scheme Mr Morton filed four years returns 2005 2008 claimed nearly 4 million refunds His wife filed 2007 return claimed 12000 I never ever ever thought I breaking law Mr Morton later said I thought law His faith bolstered April got refund one returns direct deposit Washington Mutual account 48032255
In 2010 Securities Exchange Commission went Mortons different scheme one connection sovereign ideology Mr Morton used unconventional celebrity years earlier begin investment club would channel psychic powers predicting foreign currency markets Its risky type trading Mr Morton bragged forecasts accurate even Henry Paulson Treasury secretary relied
After hearing Mr Morton promote fund Coast Coast man Washington State invested 217000 An elderly New York woman parted 20000 Hes promising stars recalled Tim Saunders Alaska electrician poured life savings 135000 Yeah greed came I felt I needed quickly In 100 people invested 6 million Mr Morton sank half foreigncurrency trading nearly lost At least 240000 funneled nonprofit Mortons set authorities dont know rest In 2013 SEC 115 million judgment Ms Morton relief defendant meaning accused profiting scheme
The Mortons filed bankruptcy repeatedly misled government instance claimed bank accounts A court eventually denied discharge meaning couldnt get rid debt They also tossed beachadjacent apartment Bottom line Ms Morton told bankruptcy trustee one day I want able get decent job nice place live pay taxes life back
It around time Mortons turned hawking debterasing sovereign scheme known bond process Over two years helped people around country send nearly two dozen fake bonds IRS Quicken Loans PennyMac Bank America Chase Bank treasurers office Contra Costa County California Early 2015 Barbara Lavender woman whose husband met Mr Morton UFO conference gave call
Ms Lavender 61 frontdesk clerk adult school When I met last year Hemet Calif nearly 90 parched miles east Los Angeles ranchstyle home trimmed red Christmas lights We chatted kitchen table 14yearold dog Remy curled feet She explained spoke Mr Morton phone avoided talking sovereign ideology Instead said could purchase portion bond held almost magically make educational loan disappear
To wipe 70000 balance suggested Ms Lavender send 2500 less 4 percent owed She husband believed Mr Morton discovered sort workaround rich people find You know testified later You hear time wealthy tax loopholes kind thing
The bond looked authentically bureaucratic formal scalloped border It really certificate paper Office Depot The accompanying paperwork said student loan company entitled paid back fund reality United States taps help stabilize foreign currencies Mr Morton said warned Ms Lavender Look I dont know going work Im lawyer He added Its going depend whether accept
A month Mortons mailed bond package Ms Lavender checked educational loan balance saw hadnt budged wrote Ms Morton email She didnt get response Ms Lavender sent followup followup This beginning feel increasingly like scam wrote October bilked hardearned money spare
Ms Morton finally replied said shed recovering knee surgery Ms Lavender sent almost apologetic response Her attention elsewhere husband died suddenly brain mass Once hear Sean let know thinks next wrote With husband gone debt even greater burden main breadwinner
Nothing came exchange That winter two men jackets showed Ms Lavenders home questioned Mortons bond process outcome Afterward Ms Lavender took one business cards nephew works local sheriffs office Yes reassured They really IRS
On Jan 31 2016 nearly 200foottall whiteandblue cruise ship called Ruby Princess docked Port Los Angeles About 100 guests board paid 3000 marketed ConspiraSea Cruise weeklong jaunt Mexican waters American paranoia Vaccinations Do You Really Know Whats Coming Through That Needle Conspiracy Steal Your Body Soul As Mortons prepared disembark arrested federal agents
After years digging IRS investigators Mortons faced suite charges related tax filings fake bonds Once Ruby Princess Mr Morton led workshop called From Fascism Freedom separated patted asked medications took Mr Morton said ask Melissa An agent Cyanide said seething On way jail added Do favor tell Sean Thank Ill see next life
Their trial began Tax Day 2017 The prosecution told simple story greed I submit IRS slot machine one prosecutor Valerie Makarewicz said Keep hitting spin Keep playing hit jackpot The day Mortons got 48032255 refund said went bank drained nearly account Once IRS realized mistake tried recoup money Mortons filed two rounds bogus returns set fake bonds
Ms Mortons lawyer presented goodfaith defense She thrall sovereign gurus said people kind strutted back forth stage answer everything He showed jury 37 pages perfectcursive notes Ms Morton took Brandon Adams lecture In courtroom obviously nonsense But time people believed Melissa Morton believed
Mr Morton represented Im rapist thug war criminal said opening statement I didnt run Nazi concentration camp murder millions children
Serving lawyer also meant crossexamined witnesses Are familiar bankruptcy United States 1933 asked governments fraud expert It reference sovereign conspiracy theory
No witness said Im
During closing argument trials fourth day Mr Morton told jury Norwegian forest cats Earlier week said wife tried save premature kitten They stayed late swaddled cloth fed milk eye dropper The kitten died anyway Ask implored jurors Do send nice people care kittens raise cats jail forever The panel deliberated two hours When returned Ms Morton greeted hopeful smile The verdict guilty counts She fainted
Around time prominent sovereigns facing reckoning A court permanently barred Mr Adams preparing tax returns promoting OID scheme ended prison peddling fake money orders Another guru ConspiraSea Cruise named Winston Shrout workshop Conspiracy Court System awaiting trial Oregon
Mr Mortons sentencing set June But 11 hearing started didnt show
Agents spotted afternoon outside Dominos Hermosa Beach gray hood sunglasses shrouding much face He hopped white Ford Escape headed south The next morning tweeted plea donations Melissa cats need help relocating
Two months passed Mr Morton resurfaced via video friends online talk show Project Camelot Getting Truth Out One Whistleblower Time His hair mussed hed startled awake wore headset black Vneck darkrimmed glasses took
His version hello ripping judge prosecutors biggest gang criminals youre ever going see Soon turned attention impending solar eclipse This one biggest turning points American history said The video clocked 40000 views It vintage Sean David Morton say impossible tell anything believed
I asked Will Chappell known Mortons decade whether actual sovereign dogmatists He said She definitely believed story Sean telling I believe Sean believed story telling A little bit I believed And convictions Melissa course knowing knew would gone long time ago I think Sean would still done He still thinks missed step
The solar eclipse took place August week Mr Mortons onthelam interview Though Ms Morton promised court would contact fugitive husband couple rendezvoused hotel outside Palm Springs That morning moon briefly blotted sun Mr Morton lounging poolside swim trunks purple mountains arrayed eclipse glasses side An IRS agent walked It
At sentencing Ms Morton distanced I living embodiment love blind wrote judge If I ever questioned teachings processes others I told I question others far smarter I There thousands attendees workshops seminars It convincing wellorganized believable How could thousands people wrong She sentenced two years prison filed appeal Behind bars passed time taking classes résuméwriting watercolorpainting embroidery watching Food Network recently transferred halfway house Emails posted Project Camelot site suggest husband still touch
Mr Morton sentenced six years prison Hes representing appeal court papers argued hed improperly profiled terrorist sovereign citizen On Project Camelot hes unrepentant even sharing pardon request said sent President Trump
Its work RADIO TV INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM DEEP STATE forces within DOJ put wife I prison YEARS wrote Of course suggestion correct injustice donate PayPal account
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raphael Minder
MADRID The simmering conflict Catalan independence roared back center Spanish attention Tuesday 12 people went trial roles botched secession attempt 2017 Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez scrambled keep issue toppling government
The eagerly anticipated trial Spanish Supreme Court Madrid drawn enormous attention broadcast live national television could soon overshadowed political crisis unfolding blocks away Parliament
On Wednesday Mr Sánchezs minority Socialist government faces crucial parliamentary vote national budget If majority lawmakers reject including Catalan lawmakers far backed prime minister almost certainly forced call elections
With Spains government hanging balance Supreme Court intense pressure demonstrate remain impartial politics case ignited passions recriminations The Catalan separatist leaders indicted charges include rebellion holding independence referendum declaring independence October 2017 moves Spanish courts ruled unconstitutional
The secessionist conflict split Catalan society also helped reshape Spains politics Mr Sánchez came office unexpectedly June winning vote noconfidence previous conservative government backing Basque Catalan nationalist lawmakers
To stay office needs maintain support separatist parties governed Catalonia wealthy northeastern region Spain since 2015 But Quim Torra leader regional government insisted party would back national budget unless Mr Sánchez agreed consider another independence referendum prime minister refused
On Tuesday María Jesús Montero Spains budget minister told lawmakers trial conflict Catalonia polarized debate budget insisted government cede blackmail separatist lawmakers
We always betting political dialogue within constitutional framework make clear framework nothing outside constitutional order said
Mr Sánchezs attempt renew political dialogue separatists recently labeled treason leader Spains conservative party Pablo Casado
Almost every aspect criminal case subject intense political feuding location trial Madrid rather Barcelona decision Spains judiciary deny bail defendants keep prison since late 2017
The defendants supporters see conditions reinforcing independence movements complaints oppressive central government Opponents secessionism hand hope prison sentences Catalan leaders deter illegal attempts break Spain
Within main chamber frescoed Supreme Court building built 18th century panel seven justices 12 defendants listened opening arguments Tuesday Oriol Junqueras former deputy leader Catalonia occupied frontbench
Andreu Van den Eynde lawyer Mr Junqueras opened proceedings cast case matter free expression right protest right vote
We make political defense defend human values rights Mr Van den Eynde said The defendants argued already faced legal proceeding every constitutional right restricted
A handful indicted politicians missing trial however including Carles Puigdemont former leader Catalonia fled Brussels successfully resisted Spains attempts extradite
Outside Supreme Court building television crews heavy police surveillance jostled space 600 journalists accredited cover trial
In surrounding streets protesters carried Spanish flags denounced Mr Sánchez handling Catalan conflict called ouster small echo antigovernment demonstration drew tens thousands people Sunday
I rely judges politicians havent done put end attempt destroy Spain said Santiago Pulido house painter held sign drawing two defendants devils horns
Some defendants face 25 years prison found guilty sentences much heavier Mr Pulido said They responsible dividing Spanish people making people fight within country I think serious crime
The trial expected last least three months But budgetary defeat Wednesday could force Mr Sánchez call elections summer means could take place verdicts made public
Opposition politicians want Mr Sánchez hold general election May 26 Spain already hold municipal regional elections well votes European Parliament
Speaking outside courtroom Mr Van den Eynde defense lawyer said trial views already politicized could influenced snap election
Were trying stay focused trial said know politics change everything change



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Paul Mozur Austin Ramzy
HONG KONG The Chinese electronics giant Huawei sued United States government Wednesday arguing unfairly incorrectly banned security threat
The lawsuit force government make case company public could also leave Huawei vulnerable deeper scrutiny business practices relationship Chinese government
The United States argued Huawei poses risk equipment could used Chinese authorities spy communications disrupt telecommunications networks That position led major wireless carriers United States avoid Huaweis equipment
Huawei denies allegations says lawsuit meant prove engage practices The companys plans file lawsuit first reported Monday The New York Times
The US Congress repeatedly failed produce evidence support restrictions Huawei products Guo Ping Huaweis rotating chairman said statement announcing filing lawsuit We compelled take legal action proper last resort
The lawsuit filed United States District Court Plano Tex Huawei American headquarters argues part 2019 National Defense Authorization Act unconstitutional singles Huawei The act bans government agencies contracting Huawei companies use companys equipment
Huawei Chinas biggest maker telecommunications equipment pressure months United States authorities Now striking back The suit part markedly aggressive legal public relations offensive Huawei recently mounted push back spying accusations
During news briefing broadcast official Huawei feed Twitter Mr Guo pulled punches
The US government long branded Huawei threat hacked service stolen emails source code said referring National Security Agency documents provided former contractor Edward J Snowden showed agency pried way Huaweis systems
Still US government sparing effort smear company mislead public Huawei added The briefing streamed Twitter American internet platform blocked China reached two million people
In December Meng Wanzhou daughter Huaweis founder chief financial officer company detained Canada behest United States seeking extradite
Her father Ren Zhengfei companys founder since rejected claims daughter said would wait see President Trump would intervene case Ms Meng court week Vancouver British Columbia part extradition hearing
In meantime Huawei battled many customers nations said would pull back buying products China also retaliated Canada detaining several Canadian citizens This week Canadian officials also complained China begun suspend import canola country
Lu Kang spokesman Chinas Ministry Foreign Affairs said Thursday Chinese decision based discovery pests Canadian canola
China long history interrupting trade countries middle diplomatic spats In September 2010 China halted export rare earth metals Japan two months dispute sovereignty cluster tiny islands Japan Taiwan Weeks later China suspended trade talks Norway halted import Norwegian salmon Nobel Peace Prize awarded Chinese dissident Norwegian committee
Huaweis lawsuit argues singling company Congress violated constitutional principles separation powers also bill attainder clause prohibits legislation singles person entity punishment without trial
The actual intended effect prohibitions bar Huawei significant segments US market telecommunications equipment services thereby inflicting immediate ongoing economic competitive reputational harms Huawei companys lawyers wrote suit
They added prohibitions carried without fair hearing opportunity rebut allegations without opportunity escape
The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab filed ultimately lost similar legal challenge two years ago After Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies ban Kaspersky products systems Congress codified directive law
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits arguing singled punishment without trial A judge ultimately dismissed lawsuits pointing came legitimate desire protect American networks
The Justice Department filed criminal charges Huawei January cases focus companys connections evading American sanctions Iran theft intellectual property Neither relates core question faced governments around world whether using Huaweis equipment new 5G networks causes security concerns
The new lawsuit seeks focus question push United States government make case While Huawei unlikely reverse American opposition company may hope win government officials countries including Europe probably following American lawsuit closely
Debate security Huaweis systems come critical moment countries around world preparing spend hundreds billions dollars expanding cellular networks next generation 5G technology
The new networks faster speeds also used connect bewildering number new sensors datacollection systems alongside smartphones That would make vulnerabilities networks potentially serious cellular networks past
Mr Lu Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman expressed support Huaweis legal action
We believe perfectly justified fully understandable companies safeguard legitimate rights interests legal means said
Many Chinese expressed support social media Huaweis legal stand United States Some others noted sarcasm difficulties similar legal recourse companies individuals within Chinas system
So sue government wrote one user Weibo Chinese social media service Interesting All sudden Im thinking actually I dont dare think
Keith Bradsher contributed reporting Shanghai Zoe Mou contributed research Beijing Qiqing Lin Shanghai



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Associated Press
MOGADISHU Somalia Gunmen Islamist militant group stormed government building Somalias capital Mogadishu suicide car bombing Saturday killing least five people including countrys deputy labor minister police said
Somali security forces fought hourslong gun battle least five assailants retake control building houses ministries labor works police officer Capt Mohamed Hussein said
The Reuters news agency citing police sources put death toll end battle 15
Saqar Ibrahim Abdalla Somalias deputy minister labor social affairs killed groundfloor office shortly gunmen stormed building Captain Hussein said
Saturday working day Somalia dozens people believed building time attack
The Shabab claimed responsibility attack building far headquarters Somali intelligence agency As attack unfolded gunfire could heard building White smoke billowed scene witnesses said
A similar attack targeting busy area Mogadishu February killed least 24 people That attack also began pair car bombs exploding popular area Mogadishu Somalis relaxing restaurants
The Shabab links Al Qaeda frequently carry suicide bombings targeting public places hotels government offices They Africas active Islamist militant group fighting years take power create Islamic state Somalia
The group continues mount lethal attacks despite pushed Mogadishu part African Union peacekeepers It mostly operates rural areas countrys south
The group carried many deadly attacks neighboring Kenya retaliation Kenyas deployment 2011 peacekeepers Somalia
The United States military carried number deadly airstrikes recent months Shabab


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
France Dispatch
By Adam Nossiter
BAYONNE France The government Paris disapproves But local mayor doesnt care He says continue sheltering Africans crossing Spanish border France
For JeanRené Etchegaray mayor Bayonne quiet refined city French Basque Country 22 miles border matter necessity humanitarian obligation
Since Italy closed borders migrants France tried close border migrants coming Italy Spain become prime gateway Europe migrants Africa 57000 arriving last year
Many crossing France transiting Bayonne place everything reasonable Stendhal wrote mid19th century
But Mr Etchegaray sees reasonable stance put war government President Emmanuel Macron even mayor become case study frontline management Europes migration crisis contradictions
The mayor doesnt necessarily want young men predominantly Frenchspeaking West African countries like Guinea Mali Ivory Coast hanging around forever He also doesnt want camping streets tall old halftimbered Basque houses nestled along slowmoving rivers
But wants migrants exist city condition dignity put I dont think I less said
So Mr Etchegaray took young men streets requisitioned old military barracks near train station put camp beds brought hot meals keeps place heated
The young men greet warmly shows several times day
Good man said one temporary guests Abdul Sylla 29yearold Guinea harbors vague hopes studying Close people
Official France keeps wagging finger citys mayor
It absolutely question state would give slightest aid mayors shelter Gilbert Payet recently Mr Macrons regional representative Interior Ministry testily told local reporters last month
The mayor unfazed
I saw frontiers closing far Im concerned fundamental rights cant trampled Mr Etchegaray said evoking Bayonnes heritage refuge Jews fleeing Spanish Inquisition birthplace great Jewish jurist René Cassin helped draft Universal Declaration Human Rights
The French states attitude toward mayor illustrates Mr Macrons ambiguities subject migration
germany
200 miles
Paris
switz
France
Atlantic
Ocean
italy
Mediterranean Sea
spain
30 miles
Bayonne
Bay Biscay
france
Irun
basque country
spain
By The New York Times
On one hand exalted Frances humanitarian traditions asked police treat migrants fairness
On government refused admission migrant ships put migrant rights advocates trial boasted many foreigners expelled turned back frontiers
The Italians angrily accused French hypocrisy Mr Etchegaray used word
The prefect said No recalled Maïté Etcheverry young volunteer runs shelter Bayonne
But mayor merely carried distributing blankets inquiring migrants wellbeing paying center budget local agglomeration towns runs
They said Youre going create pull factor even migrants Mr Etchegaray said laugh interview office past week
They said Youre going create another Calais said referring squalid encampments northern France since demolished thousands migrants waited mud cold misery hoping get England
So far hasnt turned way
I dont feel Im anything contrary law Mr Etchegaray said mildly
Look Im kind radical crazy person continued noting migrants stay days move
He even moved bus stop lowcost travel services front shelter make easier migrants leave And went war bus company drivers demanding illegally Africans produce identity papers
We squatters France supported City Hall Ms Etcheverry said grinning
That mayor hes deep prefect visibly interior minister said Ms Etcheverry law student Its really kind extraordinary
A selfdescribed radical proBasque independence leftist found political opposition 66yearold centerright mayor Not time
The migrants come go center day often arriving inconspicuous cars traffickers The local police say seedy district around train station nearby Spanish border city Irún become hive trafficking
One recent day group six young African men backpacks hurried single file across plaza Irún flight stairs
They bundled waiting car quickly drove Watching plaza several spotters talking furtively phones All happened right noses group Spanish police officers 20 yards away stir
French Spanish officers wait opposite sides bridge crossing river separates Spain France corner The border open unless migrant case might get stopped checked sent back
If migrants make shelter Bayonne however temporary refuge
The local police enter courtyard converted shelter long low hall staffed volunteers stocked donations food clothing The young men staying play scrabble lie quietly camp beds grateful worst seems behind
I never want see sea said Ibrahima Doumbia young Guinean crossed Mediterranean boat I fright life
With arrival cold weather fall knew growing migrant population Bayonne could longer stay one citys main squares people camping
It cold raining Mr Etchegaray said We couldnt leave anymore They cold sick hungry
The mayor formed plans initiative quickly He came directly square Ms Etcheverry recalled adding remembered saying Ill back halfhour
When returned led volunteers migrants underground parking lot municipal police temporary solution something better could found
He accompanied showed toilets Ms Etcheverry recounted He saw quiet young people helping young people But never imagined would end like center financed municipality
It mayors duty Mr Etchegaray said
The state doesnt want know added But Ive got know And emergency



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Bits
By Jamie Condliffe
Hi Im Jamie Condliffe Greetings London Heres look weeks tech news
There little fashionable 2019 desire curb Big Techs power But knowing far regulators go putting limits Silicon Valleys largest companies isnt straightforward
At one extreme calls break Big Tech Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines week called Ms Warren Massachusetts Democrat argued companies shouldnt offer products platforms controlled like Apples selling apps App Store something Spotify called European regulators Wednesday She also said would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions Facebooks takeovers Instagram WhatsApp
Her pitch isnt perfect The New York Timess Kevin Roose pointed generic misses easy wins overlooks big issues But bold inspiring rally cry Big Techs biggest critics
At end spectrum tech companies Ideally likes Facebook Google would love perpetually operate lightly regulated world helped grow quickly But even Mark Zuckerberg Facebooks chief executive acknowledged inevitable regulation testified House Energy Commerce Committee April
Theres plenty room extremes Take example report published Wednesday British government called overhaul antitrust policies Big Tech Its main proposal new regulator identify companies strategic market status block activities promoting products services search results belonging competitors hello Google
That reports authors say probusiness proconsumer solution changing antitrust law drive breakup businesses
So whos right Mr Zuckerberg least says regulatory intervention inevitable Theres strong bipartisan support regulation As line drawn thats harder say
Breaking big companies isnt easy Its expensive takes long time And doesnt always go plan The last notable attempt judge ruled two decades ago Microsoft cleaved violated antitrust law overturned appeal So Ms Warren could work cut
But may ultimately become question balancing ambition need Is better gamble breaking big companies guarantee new rules curb behavior Thats something lawmakers going wrestle
When OpenAI founded three years ago huge goal build artificial intelligence software capable human brain Its founders said nonprofit noble ambitions 1 billion funding backers pay way public could trust build socalled general artificial intelligence
Only 1 billion doesnt go far goals like Huge computing resources big salaries attract talent burn cash Actually turns profits might useful
So Wired reported Open AI announced changing business model To keep Facebook Google created OpenAI LP company take money investors need return profit like venture funds That make easier raise funds Down line might monetize technology develops But company decided cap returns investors see 100 every dollar invested
One way think figure OpenAI deems 100times return ethical margin building general AI enough make feasible endeavor much tar Big Tech brush That reasoning clearly holds inhabit Silicon Valley But interesting see profit cap enough put everyone ease
On March 12 1989 Tim BernersLee proposed idea linking digital files boss Mike Sendall called vague exciting It ultimately became World Wide Web 30 years later left much love hate existence
At event Londons Science Museum Tuesday mark webs passage fourth decade Mr BernersLee asked might look like another 30 years Heres said
Its I think us try guess
Look whats happened last 30 years The web changed really dramatically lot couldnt predicted
What say web want
We want web open We want web royaltyfree We want web discriminationfree
Worthy goals And article wrote past week Mr BernersLee laid steps may required ensure happen
Governments must translate laws regulations digital age They must ensure markets remain competitive innovative open
Companies must ensure pursuit shortterm profit expense human rights democracy scientific fact public safety
Platforms products must designed privacy diversity security mind
And important citizens must hold companies governments accountable
Thirty years Mr Sendalls analysis might apply equally well proposal
Elon Musk really dislikes whistleblowers According Businessweek Mr Musk Tesla chief executive set destroy one employee leaked details raw materials wastage company
How Google pay executives accused misconduct Handsomely Two shared total 135 million according details emerged lawsuit week
Who fund next wave tech startups Thatll millionaires created companies like Airbnb Uber go public
You care TikTok You might never use could reshape social media know
Scientists dropped smartphone blender Because apparently best way work much cobalt gold substances
How disappear almost completely A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps going dark staying online
Silicon Valley wants build monument To Silicon Valley obviously
Jamie Condliffe editor DealBook newsletter He also writes weekly Bits newsletter Follow Twitter jme_c
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Vivian Yee Hwaida Saad
BEIRUT Lebanon Lebanons newly formed government gives Islamist movement Hezbollah key ministries raised concerns country could run afoul sanctions United States prohibit material support Iranbacked group
On Friday United States warned Hezbollah propping agenda new position includes key posts Lebanons government including Ministry Health
American officials concerned Hezbollah use ministry provide statesubsidized health care patronage jobs supporters possibly even fighters helping endure punishing American sanctions made difficult group offer usual social services Shiite Muslim base
We call new government ensure resources services ministries provide support Hezbollah said State Department spokesman Robert Palladino
As new cabinet coalesced Thursday nearly nine months political deadlock assistant United States Treasury secretary terrorist financing Marshall Billingslea warned Hezbollah tried exploit ministries funnel money undertake activities support terrorist agenda significant concerns
Hezbollah expected gain strength government group allies expanded share seats Lebanons parliamentary elections last May significantly weakening Westernbacked prime minister Saad Hariri bloc Now control Health Ministry fourthlargest budget government ability embed Lebanese state institutions made bigger target elusive prey United States designated terrorist group
Lebanons political system awards posts patronage spoils politicians different religious affiliations order maintain balance among countrys 18 officially recognized religious sects There long history ministers stripes using Health Ministry provide free subsidized health care supporters Analysts believe Hezbollah may try whether Shiite base troublingly United States Hezbollah fighters wounded Syrian civil war next door
This yet another example Hezbollah openly holding Lebanons security prosperity hostage said Rachel Mikeska spokeswoman American Embassy Lebanon She added United States prepared take whatever actions necessary protect interests Lebanese people
She declined say actions might But analysts said possibilities ranged relatively restrained reducing funding Health Ministry squeezing international donors like World Health Organization dire The United States could theoretically impose sanctions Lebanese hospitals preventing export American medications Lebanon cut American military aid Lebanese Army
It unclear Hezbollah might Health Ministry Trump administration would consider violation sanctions law President Trump signed October Analysts said Hezbollah may chosen Dr Jamil Jabak 63yearold internist close ties Hezbollah health minister try avoid direct sanctions ministry Dr Jabak member Hezbollah said served personal physician groups leader
Would Washington consider free health care Hezbollah members provided Health Ministry example significant financial support wrote Michael Young political observer journalist Carnegie Middle East Center Beirut opinion column last year Its difficult say would never
The United States various interests Lebanon often end conflict including comes Hezbollah It wants counter Iran proxies also maintain Lebanons stability war Syria continues burn also wants battle terrorism push back Russian influence Middle East
Though Washington designated Hezbollah terrorist organization actions around world close relationship Iran group also baked legitimate parts Lebanese state making difficult United States target without also affecting rest country
The debate US Lebanon always prioritize balance competing priorities said Firas Maksad director Arabia Foundation Washingtonbased think tank leans toward proSaudi Arabia antiIran policies
On one side debate antiIran hardliners argue Iran Mediterranean Hezbollah uses Lebanese political elite Lebanese government thin veil political cover Mr Maksad said
Those voices include Republicans Congress members Trump administration may push cutting aid Lebanese Army significant source support armed forces well Health Ministry
Opposing hawkish views including much traditional foreign policy establishment prefer measured response
Given Lebanons floundering economy political instability Mr Maksad said dont want whole place come The prospect economic collapse greatly increased pressure countrys political factions strike powersharing agreement
They also argue reducing military aid would leave room Russia expanded influence across Middle East make inroads Lebanon
In general sanctions financial tools come primary stick used United States Iran regional partners On trip Beirut last week Mr Billingslea urged Lebanese officials exclude Hezbollah involvement countrys banking financial sectors called reforms would allow Lebanese authorities block freeze accounts associated group
But Hezbollah continues expand influence Lebanese institutions sanctions may prove overly blunt tool hitting legitimate government services civilians addition party
In past Hezbollah played smaller role government could easily separate Hezbollah state institutions said Hanin Ghaddar LebaneseAmerican analyst Washington Institute Near East Policy frequent critic Hezbollah
Now Hezbollah commanding broad swath government asked How keep stability Lebanese institutions going Hezbollah everything
But Kassem Qassir Lebanese political analyst close Hezbollah said concerns Hezbollahs dominance overblown
Nobody sole control Lebanon neither Hezbollah anybody else said Lebanon diverse country
In televised interview Saturday Hassan Nasrallah organizations secretary general said group intend meddle Lebanons balance power
But Mr Maksad noted Hezbollah managed forge pacts Christian Sunni politicians well Shiite ones held formation new government prime minister Sunni agreed allow Hezbollahs Sunni allies cabinet unmistakable mark strength
Of new faces 30seat cabinet Dr Jabak physician leading ministry closely watched West attracted immediate attention
I dont belong political party said radio interview Friday


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Julia Jacobs
Forty years ago CSpan went live first public broadcast House Representatives chamber giving Americans televisionshaped window lawmakers behave ornate room history often made
Ushering CSpan era March 19 1979 Al Gore representative Tennessee pushed networks access Capitol
From day forward Mr Gore said time every member body must ask many Americans listening debates made
Since day CSpan debuted four employees network become mainstay American politics We spoke Susan Swain one CSpans two chief executives birth network Washingtons initial resistance caught camera network adapted social media age
This interview Ms Swain joined CSpan three years started edited brevity clarity
In moment Al Gore approached lectern House chamber CSpan went live changed American politics
The fact people could actually see elected representatives living room phones fundamental change In past people might pull lever every two years member Congress super engaged might read newsletter came mail go occasional town hall meeting
This meant time interested could watch member Congress say Prior television Congress time members really got attention big names like Kennedy something outrageous either positively negatively member leadership
Initially lot resistance Washington idea CSpan broadcasting House floor debates And Senate didnt allow CSpan another seven years Why resistance
Members concerns cameras would swinging around taking pictures members focused attentively debates heaven forbid closing eyes second Or today perhaps might sending tweet
One ways finally came bear created compromise members could live The compromise House Representatives speakers office would control cameras floor House All rest Congress press conferences hearings CSpan news organizations covering independently
Every time theres change speaker sent letter saying Nows time Allow CSpan journalistic organizations put cameras side side That argument continues go nowhere
Were politicians selfconscious theyd appear camera
I think concern wouldnt control picture The Senate finally acquiesced classic story American politics
The House coming peoples living rooms via CSpan regularly nightly news could picked regularly nightly stories House Television loves pictures would stories House The Senate becoming concerned becoming secondtier citizen Congress
The person really instrumental Senator Robert Byrd West Virginia one oldline members much institutionalist much concerned Senate would change He went home West Virginia speak introduced West Virginia home state speaker House And big shock white hair thenSpeaker House Tip ONeill And brought home So convinced recalcitrant members vote CSpan went June 1986
What one significant memories time CSpan
The day Challenger shuttle exploded televising live I believe I air shuttle going And became clear watched picture shuttle major catastrophe
We sat watched long NASA took pictures story began unfold Then opened phone lines There incredible outpouring around country people witnessing absolute tragedy human tragedy also technological tragedy unfold front eyes
CSpan given politicians platform connect directly constituents social media Is CSpan still relevant
CSpans relevance comes form events cover every day within minutes televise digitized stored video archives It 250000 hours political video weve covered since 1987
That means member Congress pull clip hearing send constituents It also means people social media latenight comedians immediate access
I think people 20s younger experience CSpan social media latenight comedians The creation video library 1987 every bit significant original creation CSpan
CSpan long fought cameras allowed Supreme Court chamber What chances youll succeed
I feel little bit like Sisyphus pushing rock hill What documented years people nominated Supreme Court go committee hearings expressing open mind concept get inside chamber nine manage convinced others would detrimental institution
We keep hoping generations change younger appointees come familiar media even social media attitude change But institution continues prevail
Follow Julia Jacobs Twitter juliarebeccaj



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Benjamin Mueller
LONDON Britains tottering efforts leave European Union remained impasse Thursday allies Prime Minister Theresa May tried keep deal alive face unbending opposition
The deal already defeated twice Parliament given new life Wednesday Mrs May promised Conservative Party colleagues hardline supporters leaving bloc would step passed let someone else take next stage talks Brussels process known Brexit
Who could Britains next prime minister Here contenders
But even offer resign enough assuage hardline Conservatives putative allies Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland DUP hate deal
So government tried new tack Thursday Ministers said would disassemble Mrs Mays deal two parts one called withdrawal agreement political declaration ask Parliament vote Friday first
The withdrawal agreement outlines terms Britains exit European Union political declaration deals tangled question future relationship bloc
The basics Brexit troubled plan Britain quit European Union
The speaker House Commons John Bercow said would allow Parliament vote plan changed substantially since rejected resoundingly twice Thursday said government met test
Ministers pitching vote proBrexit hardliners last opportunity secure Britains exit European Union coming months lest proEuropeans Parliament take control try frustrate Brexit force longer delay
Ministers also hoped date vote March 29 originally scheduled day Britains exit would put symbolic pressure proBrexit Conservatives swallow objections back Mrs May
But withdrawal agreement contains contentious pieces Mrs Mays plan
Among socalled backstop least temporarily binds Britain greater extent Northern Ireland European trading rules avoid customs checks historically contentious border Ireland part European Union Northern Ireland part United Kingdom
Unionists Northern Ireland reject backstop believe would create regulatory differences Northern Ireland rest United Kingdom putting union risk
And British news media reports late Thursday said unionists intended vote Mrs Mays plan Friday considerably narrowing prime ministers path victory
There hope among Conservatives splitting Mrs Mays plan two would strengthen case opposition Labour lawmakers whose main objections political declaration withdrawal agreement
But Labour leaders reacted angrily idea Thursday noting Mrs May previously said two pieces plan inextricably linked
Keir Starmer senior Labour official warned Thursday splitting would leave us blindest blindfold Brexits He referring Labours fear Parliament passed part Mrs Mays plan prime minister resigned hardline proBrexit politician like Boris Johnson would take shape crucial next stage negotiations
Stephen Doughty Labour member Parliament said This looks like trickery highest order
Confusion swirled day Parliament governments plans ministers leaving lawmakers dark would voting Friday late afternoon
At time antiBrexit lawmakers working behind scenes pick alternate plans put Parliament Monday case Mrs Mays deal pass
The antiBrexit lawmakers buoyed votes Parliament Wednesday night catalog proposals clashed Mrs Mays
Those included onceradical ideas like holding second public vote Brexit revoking Britains decision leave altogether well Brexit plans would see Britain keep closer ties Europe Mrs Mays proposal envisioned
The votes represented first time two years Brexit negotiations Parliament allowed express feelings alternate plans lawmakers hoped would show path compromise
But chagrin Mrs Mays opponents eight alternate plans failed muster majority leading British newspaper The Guardian run headline front page Thursday No No No No No No No No
Some proposals got close A plan customs union Britain European Union lost six votes Mr Bercow said tallying error originally led say eightvote margin
And option holding another referendum test Britons views leaving bloc attracted support expected 268 members voted favor 295
The result proposal second referendum coming weekend hundreds thousands people marched London another vote five million signed petition asking cancel Brexit sign views antiBrexit politicians grown intense process drags
The nonbinding votes set stage another round debate Parliament Monday menu alternate options whittled politicians given second chance coalesce behind new plan
If Mrs Mays withdrawal agreement passes Friday Parliament would meet European Unions deadline completing Brexit process extracting Britain bloc May 22
If Britain could crash bloc without deal April 12 analysts say would calamitous exit could ask longer extension
Mrs Mays offer resign another reminder anxiety Britain Brexit Conservative Party politics still dictated large degree members leadership ambitions
ProBrexit politicians like Mr Johnson long angling take Mrs May chance sooner rather later seemed enough many back months fierce opposition deal
Mr Johnson said Mrs Mays deal strapped suicide vest around country Another hardline proBrexit lawmaker Jacob ReesMogg said prime ministers plan would turn Britain slave state
On Wednesday said would back deal



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Jim Tankersley Patricia Cohen
WASHINGTON The longest government shutdown United States history resulted shocking number taxpayers calls Internal Revenue Service going unreturned left languish hold unusually long periods according government audit released Tuesday
The audit office National Taxpayer Advocate found five million pieces mail went unanswered 87000 amended tax returns processed shutdown thousands IRS workers furloughed working without pay
The issues especially acute since followed significant changes tax code ushered President Trumps 15 trillion tax overhaul left many people questions filing returns
The problems continued even shutdown audit found In week ended Feb 2 shortly agency employees returned jobs fewer half calls IRSs accountsmanagement lines answered compared nearly 90 percent week last year The typical hold time callers increased 17 minutes four minutes 2018
There similar frustrations called agencys socalled balancedue line hopes making payment arrangements taxes owed Fewer 7 percent calls answered typical wait stretched 80 minutes
IRS officials said reviewing taxpayer advocates findings
We continuing assess impact shutdown various operations across agency remain proud many IRS employees risen resulting challenges agency said statement The IRS committed continue making improvements across information technology tax enforcement taxpayer service operations
Data released agency last week showed Americans filed 12 percent fewer returns Feb 2 compared point 2018 IRS processed 26 percent fewer returns The agency given indication Tuesdays statement otherwise might consider pushing back Aprils tax filing deadline order account shutdownrelated snags
The taxpayer advocates audit focus solely shutdowns impact reflected effort office led Nina E Olson capture typical taxpayer experience dealing IRS The audit said many Americans feelings process could boiled two words extreme frustration
The audit found policy change made Trump administration intended simplify taxfiling process creation postcard size 1040 form made filing difficult new form include much information many taxpayers need complete returns
The new schedules force taxpayers crossreference transfer data credits deductions income increasing potential errors occur since tax information dispersed many pages needs tracked reported different schedules forms report says
The problems became apparent 35day shutdown ended Jan 25 underscored agencys deeper flaws including reliance 1960sera technology audit found The systems contain official record taxpayer accounts oldest federal government
For last 25 years IRS tried unable replace audit says citing budgetary constraints
The outdated systems deprive IRS comprehensive view taxpayers accounts hampering agencys ability properly identify targeted outreach collections audits
Inadequate financing primary cause agencys failings audit found Congress long beat IRS routinely condemning performance cutting budget For example money technology improvements 2018 fiscal year reduced 62 percent 110 million year
Taxpayers called IRS last fall advice new tax law would affect frequently told tax law personnel time due budgetary cuts disconnected audit found Part reason decision agency answer tax law questions three half months January tax filing day
A lack information also meant vast majority taxpayers eligible use free software file returns electronically take advantage program Of 106 million taxpayers could qualify free program fewer 25 million use
Because editing error earlier version article referred imprecisely 62 percent reduction financing Internal Revenue Service 2018 fiscal year It applied technology improvements specifically general improvements


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Dan Bilefsky
MONTREAL Canadian diplomats posted Cuba suing government claiming failed protect respond robustly mysterious illness acquired stationed Cuba
The illness known Havana Syndrome affected dozens American Canadian diplomats posted Cuba come symptoms like memory loss sleep disturbance nosebleeds saying heard strange highpitched sound
The suit filed week federal court Toronto says Canadian government slow respond provide sufficient medical treatment diplomats children targeted 2017 strange debilitating attacks resulted brain injuries without evident physical trauma
Paul Miller lawyer representing 14 diplomats spouses children suing compared attack preceded illnesses science fiction horror film
He said plaintiffs seeking 28 million Canadian dollars damages
It tragedy diplomats kids lifelong trauma attacks said
The plaintiffs identified pseudonyms sensitivities related work nature injuries concerns expressed Canada relating according suit
The murky circumstances illness drawn international speculation Neither United States Canada determined cause leading speculation kind microwave weapon could involved
Last month Canadian government said would withdraw half diplomatic staff Cuba another employee fell ill condition said affected 14 Canadian employees spouses dependents
So far 26 Americans affected similar illnesses according State Department
Speaking reporters Washington Wednesday evening Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland declined comment specifics case But said met diplomats affected health safety priority
Its privilege serve Canada around world also really hard something whole families said Im really concerned Canadas utmost sympathy support
One Canadian career diplomat party suit said familys lives turned upsidedown The diplomat requested anonymity still worked government said stationed Cuba 2017 suddenly fell ill debilitating headaches initially attributed stress
After hearing American cases Havana Syndrome said connected symptoms highpitched noises coming backyard
She said 10yearold daughter affected well waking heavy nosebleed later suffering headaches forced miss school
She said Canadian government waited months seeking treatment diplomats prevented warning colleagues posted Cuba
The diplomat said emotional trauma suffering mysterious illness exacerbated feeling government believe
The suit contends despite knowing risks similar attacks American diplomats 2016 Canada continued send diplomats Havana It accused government playing seriousness situation leaving victims contend rumors faking
The plaintiffs also contend government restricted information could share doctors tried stop University Pennsylvania Center Brain Injury Repair studying syndrome testing Canadians
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Dave Philipps
SHREVEPORT La Transgender troops like Senior Airman Sterling Crutcher seen unreasonable burden Trump administration It says presence hurts morale militarys ability fight place uniform
Thats news Airman Crutcher He got back deployment B52 bomber squadron fellow airmen squadron counts among best friends threw shower wife Aimee celebrate first child born February
Sign weekly At War newsletter receive stories duty conflict consequence
At level issue Airman Crutcher 30 said serving transgender I meet exceed standards people I work like They lot questions dont problem
This uneasy time transgender troops United States military caught commander chief wants court injunctions least temporarily said could stay The last injunctions lifted Thursday
But dozens transgender troops like Airman Crutcher said interviews felt supported service Their comrades commanders welcomed said military often accepting homes neighborhoods left enlist
Nearly 1000 troops officially deemed transgender currently serving American military according Defense Department another 228 process enlisting They globe wide spectrum roles infantry officers armor platoon leaders drill sergeants intelligence specialists Arabic linguists nuclear reactor operators A transgender instructor teaches leadership Naval Academy
They started coming publicly 2016 military lifted longtime ban concluding would significant negative impact budgets operations But President Trump announced abrupt reversal policy Twitter year later saying would longer allow transgender troops serve capacity
The Defense Department laid arguments excluding transgender troops House Armed Services Committee late last month James N Stewart senior Pentagon official testified transgender troops prone mental health issues troops transition medical treatments make nondeployable months factors said would make recruits ineligible serve stemmed kinds preexisting health conditions
Mr Stewart retired Air Force general rejected calling policy ban saying policy drafted presidents Twitter announcement still allows transgender troops serve long never transition
He argued troops transitioned ranks could also raise complicated questions physical fitness standards access shower bathroom facilities may upset others leading unnecessary debilitating leadership challenges
Other troops military leaders disagree Five transgender troops also testified hearing said aside uncertainty created change policy encountered problems transitioning uniform Instances harassment according Sparta association transgender troops
And testimony Senate last spring heads Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps said aware issues caused transgender troops serving openly
Airman Crutcher says people outside unit realize transgender He relaxes weekends playing video games Airsoft gun battles troops unit
Theres nothing remarkable either way said Senior Airman Kyle Daily serves squadron There people unit dont agree theyre minority
Many transgender recruits come socially conservative small towns strict religious upbringings spent youth feeling like misfits Some troops born anatomically male said interviews enlisted initial hope military service would drum feminine feelings
I hoped would straighten I didnt want family hate said Aylanna Anderson Air Force staff sergeant raised Catholic tiny West Texas town became Eagle Scout I hoped I could leave I saw dark part behind
To surprise enlisting 2012 Sergeant Anderson said found culture emphasized judging people ability identity She began transition female 2017
The military freeing said phone Kunsan Air Base South Korea repairs electronics F16 fighters I dont know I could done otherwise
Airman Crutcher grew Pentecostal household rural Missouri said wrote heartfelt letter family lifelong sense boy girls body refused read asking instead drugs
By contrast came Air Force commander said reaction What I need I want make sure supported
A days back deployment Guam bomber squadron shopping crib pregnant wife got text mother
But wasnt birth mother says essentially disowned told 2015 transgender It Air Force mother Kim Thomas wife lieutenant colonel informally adopted meeting basic training He spends holidays family calls Mom
Shes best Airman Crutcher said leaned wifes phone see photo Ms Thomas sent new outfit baby It lifechanging support family love matter
Ms Thomas said taking Airman Crutcher wing came naturally Here amazing kid volunteered fight die country said We going allow go military without support
A 2016 RAND Corporation study found nearly onefifth transgender troops plan transition medically Those transition may depending gender preference undergo hormone therapy breast removal procedures like surgery make facial features voices gender appropriate All covered military
Transitioning troops also request surgery change genitals approval process recovery time lengthy The Defense Department respond questions many gender reassignment procedures performed troops since ban lifted 2016 Sparta estimates figure six
The cost disruption associated surgery chief complaint critics RAND study estimated factors would negligible fewer 200 active troops transitioning per year total cost less 10 million In interviews troops transitioned said tried time surgical procedures scheduled lulls unit activity sometimes put deployments demanding work assignments
Even transitioning detour careers Some Sparta members said removed sensitive jobs pilots air traffic controllers nuclear missile operators concern might mentally unstable
Regulations get way well Airman Crutcher sent home early 2016 deployment Qatar medical staff discovered testosterone treatments receiving violated rule injected medications troops deployed region
I crushed said My major called said fought stay regulations
Capt Alivia Stehlik transgender woman graduated West Point man 2008 completed Armys punishing Ranger School led infantry platoon She Army physical therapist stationed Fort Carson Colo
In interview home said transition seen asset burden
She volunteered deploy Afghanistan infantry brigade last spring units regular physical therapist became pregnant Captain Stehlik spent nearly year hopping helicopters base base treating sprains injuries medical bag one hand M4 rifle
Sixfootthree broadshouldered said would pretty obvious 1700 soldiers treated transgender never problem
Its woman I still job I man I actually better Captain Stehlik said People actually open I made vulnerable I think I still guy might downplayed much things hurt tried act tough And I might


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Elizabeth A Harris
The United States Copyright Office said dance first popularized TV show The Fresh Prince BelAir could copyrighted actor created according court documents filed week
Alfonso Ribeiro actor played Carlton show one several performers sued video game makers recent months saying dances purchased performed avatars games stolen Mr Ribeiro sued Epic Games maker Fortnite Battle Royale well TakeTwo Interactive Software makes NBA 2K16
But copyright office convinced Mr Ribeiro called Carlton Dance enthusiastically swings arms sways hips eligible copyright protection saying simple routine complex enough clear bar
That surprise least said Robert Brauneis codirector intellectual property program George Washington University Law School
Its like word short phrase Professor Brauneis said The copyright office always taken position words phrases copyrightable exactly like word phrase dance You could repeat word phrase indefinitely Im shaking hips Im shaking hips repetition doesnt make fragment subject copyright protection
Courts bound copyright offices decision could reach different conclusion Professor Brauneis said copyright offices determination would taken consideration
Mr Ribeiros lawyer David L Hecht said planned ask copyright office reconsider even individual movements considered simple way clients arranged movements considered choreographic works
Its combine notes musical composition said Those compilations would entitled copyright protection law
Mr Hecht said Mr Ribeiro submitted three copyright applications Two rejected one still consideration Mr Hecht said request copyright rapper 2 Milly rejected tried register Milly Rock ask copyright office reconsider But clients better luck Russell Horning teenager known Backpack Kid able register office 30second dance Mr Hecht described variant dance called Floss
Epic Games TakeTwo Interactive declined comment Friday


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Richard PérezPeña Stephen Castle
LONDON A small influential party aligned Prime Minister Theresa Mays government suggested Friday still support plan Britains departure European Union development could doom hopes persuading Parliament pass deal next week third try
The Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland holds 10 seats 650seat House Commons But central sticking point talks British withdrawal handle border Northern Ireland Ireland partys position carries disproportionate weight others Parliament
Parliament twice rejected agreement Mrs May negotiated European Union Britains departure known Brexit times DUP voted largely concerns border issue
If Parliament rejects deal still possibility cliffedge Brexit short term much longer delay renegotiate agreement leave
Mrs Mays position appears grow precarious day chances winning approval Brexit deal hold power Longstanding talk could ousted party Parliament whole intensified becoming constant rumble background says
On Tuesday speaker House Commons John Bercow ruled could bring plan vote third time without substantive change On Wednesday delivered speech blaming Parliament paralysis angering lawmakers sides
On Thursday European Union leaders agreed postpone March 29 departure date rejected prime ministers request threemonth delay giving next week win parliamentary approval deal come alternative April 12
If deal agreed Parliament Britains exit pushed back May 22 On Friday came blow Democratic Unionist Party Monday lawmakers try seize control Brexit policy Mrs May
Nigel Dodds leader DUPs caucus Parliament said statement posted partys website inexcusable Mrs May met blocs leaders major concessions
The government far willing capitulate securing necessary changes would get agreement House Commons said
His party many others support withdrawal contend Mrs Mays deal could leave Britain trapped making subject European Union economic rules indefinitely And treating Northern Ireland differently rest nation say deal risks splitting United Kingdom apart
Nothing changed far Withdrawal Agreement concerned Mr Dodds said We accept deal poses longterm risk constitutional economic integrity United Kingdom
Mrs May planned try third vote Parliament would need win votes 70 members That considered tall order even Mr Doddss message several Brexit supporters prime ministers Conservative Party said would follow DUPs lead
She still days win critics unlikely take Mr Doddss statement partys final word But another blow capping frenetic week setbacks
With Mrs Mays leadership questioned fellow Conservatives third rejection plan would increase pressure resign Her shifting signals might proceed defeat alienated lawmakers
She little room error Conservatives short majority able govern recently support Democratic Unionists
On Monday Parliament scheduled consider could first major step toward taking control process away government It vote whether hold rapidfire series votes specific alternatives plan
A similar proposal defeated last week two votes 314 312 Mrs Mays standing improved since
Having Parliament state preferences could allow form crossparty consensus emerge favor form Brexit keeps closer ties European Union Mrs May party would like That would require reopening negotiations bloc would mean long delay
European leaders made clear doubt Parliament approve Mrs Mays plan one reason willing grant short postponement The extension makes April 12 new date Britain leave union Parliament rejects deal Mrs May create credible alternative
Leaving without pact place Europe would upend Britains trade relationships experts say would serious economic damage prospect prime minister used pressure want soft Brexit Brexit
But hardcore Brexit supporters like idea nodeal withdrawal insist predictions harm wrong leaving little incentive support Mrs May
Meanwhile proEuropean Conservatives regard abrupt chaotic departure dread may motivated turn vote Monday exert parliamentary control
Under new timetable Parliament approves Mrs Mays deal Brexit take effect May 22 giving Britain time work details
The alternative European Union officials said long delay possibly two years Britain rethink position possibly restart negotiations



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maggie Astor
The House Oversight Reform Committee investigating allegations voter suppression Georgia Secretary State Brian Kemp since become governor
The investigation revealed letters committees Democratic leaders sent Wednesday Mr Kemp successor secretary state Brad Raffensperger The letters instructed Mr Kemp Mr Raffensperger Republicans provide March 20 wide range documents concerning voter roll purges holds placed voter registration applications polling site changes closings votingrelated issues
The committee also requested documents related potential conflict interest Mr Kemp faced administering election candidate
The Committee particularly concerned reports Georgians faced unprecedented challenges registering vote significant barriers casting votes tenure secretary state 2018 election Representatives Elijah E Cummings committee chairman Jamie Raskin head Subcommittee Civil Rights Civil Liberties wrote Mr Kemp
Mr Kemp Republicans committee immediately dismissed investigation political effort aimed undermining results election Democrats lost
Make sense people issues ideas shaping American politics newsletter
The letter outlined several points scrutiny 2018 governors race Stacey Abrams Democrat posed strong challenge Mr Kemp normally solidly Republican state
Many voters especially heavily AfricanAmerican counties waited polling places hours hundreds available voting machines sat unused government warehouses letter noted State officials sequestered machines response federal lawsuit said vulnerable hacking
Tens thousands voter registration applications mostly AfricanAmericans held state law requires name application exactly match name applicants government ID even missing hyphen cause problems
Mr Kemps office purged 14 million voters rolls tenure States required keep rolls uptodate remove people moved including Georgia much zealous others starting purging process basis voter cast ballot recently And county state officials closed 200 polling places 2012 2018
Throughout campaign Mr Kemp denied intentional voter suppression Asked comment Wednesday spokesman directed The Times video news conference Mr Kemp suggested investigation politically motivated distraction important issues
They need quit playing politics Mr Kemp said news conference pivoting attack House Democrats giving billions dollars disaster aid Puerto Rico farmers fixing lose farm He said nothing substance allegations document requests spokesman respond followup email
Mr Raffensperger current secretary state said received letter office looks forward open dialogue thorough process
Mr Cummings Mr Raskin Democratic committee leaders immediately available interviews Wednesday But decision open investigation evidence House Democrats newly empowered November election intend act aggressively issues like allegations voter suppression back burner first two years Trump administration
Representative Jim Jordan committees ranking Republican said spokesman highly unusual congressional committee involve states election
This squarely purview state Georgia House Oversight Committee Mr Jordan said statement We cant help think attempts Democrats insert committee states business attempt relitigate election result like
Mr Kemp narrowly defeated Ms Abrams ended campaign declaring This speech concession concession means acknowledge action right true proper




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos
WASHINGTON A powerful Democratic House committee chairman investigating possible abuses governments security clearance process stepped demands Friday see key documents interview potential witnesses White House light new report President Trump personally intervened grant soninlaw topsecret clearance despite legal national security concerns
The chairman Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland leads House Oversight Reform Committee accused White House new letter stonewalling requests information implied comply voluntarily would issue subpoena compel cooperation
He said report published The New York Times added new concerns Mr Trump lying public role clearance process existing broader questions irregularities surrounding access sensitive government secrets
If true new reports raise grave questions derogatory information career officials obtained Mr Kushner recommend denying access nations sensitive secrets Mr Cummings wrote letter Pat Cipollone White House counsel The letter went ask President Trump concealed role overruling recommendation General Kelly Mr McGahn felt compelled document actions office continuing withhold key documents witnesses Committee
The report The New York Times said Mr Trumps intervention concerned senior administration officials John F Kelly White House chief staff documented action contemporaneous internal memo said ordered grant Mr Kushner topsecret clearance
The Times also reported Donald F McGahn II White House counsel wrote memo documenting concerns raised CIA officials Mr Kushner Mr McGahn memo noted recommended giving broad access governments secrets
Mr Trump told The Times January Oval Office interview role Mr Kushners clearance
Mr Cummings pursuing reported irregularities White House Trump transition team since 2017 Republicans control House But started broad inquiry last month taking control oversight panel Congresss muscular investigative body said hoped would shine light national security risks may exist
He specifically requested information clearances nine current former administration officials including Mr Kushner Among whose clearances intends scrutinize Mr Trumps current former national security advisers John R Bolton Michael T Flynn onetime staff secretary Rob Porter former senior director National Security Council Robin Townley former deputy national security adviser K T McFarland well Sebastian Gorka former deputy assistant president
Mr Cummings also asked documents related review security clearance process Mr Kelly conducted 2018 concluded serious flaws system meant vet highlevel officials And Mr Cummings wants talk personnel White House Personnel Security Office
The White House said Friday thus far complied
In sign House Democrats would seek elevate issue oversight agenda Representative Adam B Schiff California chairman House Intelligence Committee said Thursday panel responsible overseeing American intelligence agencies would work Mr Cummings
Mr Schiff called Mr Trumps actions latest indicator presidents utter disregard national security men women sacrifice much every day keep us safe
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Kenneth P Vogel
WASHINGTON Michael D Cohens congressional testimony Wednesday revived questions whether President Trump broke law failing disclose footed bill hush payment pornographic film actress
Members House Oversight Reform Committee grilled Mr Cohen served decade presidents socalled fixer 130000 payment made 2016 presidential election actress keep quiet claim affair Mr Trump
Mr Cohen testified reimbursed installments Mr Trump company Trump Organization starting early 2017 payment actress Stormy Daniels
But Mr Trump failed list arrangement outstanding debt owed Mr Cohen financial disclosure statement submitted June 2017 government ethics laws requiring top federal officials divulge detailed information finances On 2018 form included footnote listing repayment 100001 250000 Mr Cohen raising questions whether 2017 filing improperly omitted debt Democrats pounced omission Wednesday
Donald Trump inflated value assets documents given Deutsche Bank Michael Cohen testified
Why think president provide accurate information 2017 financial disclosure form Representative Carolyn B Maloney Democrat New York asked Mr Cohen What trying hide
Mr Cohen responded Mr Trump trying avoid publicly revealing payments reimbursement funds I extended behalf
Mr Cohen asserted later Mr Trumps goal providing reimbursements installments order hide payment
The hush payment become increasing problem Mr Trump initially said 2018 unaware payment Ms Daniels He later acknowledged existence payment series Twitter posts asserted payment nothing election could considered undisclosed campaign contribution
Last year Mr Cohen contradicted pleading guilty litany charges including violating campaign finance laws connection hush payment
In congressional testimony Wednesday Mr Cohen elaborated payment scheme motivation It either somebody wire funds purchase life rights story Ms Clifford going end sold television would embarrassed president would interfered election Mr Cohen said referring Ms Daniels whose legal name Stephanie Clifford
He produced financial records showing fronted 130000 home equity line well two 35000 checks one Mr Trump one account linked business said among 11 payments reimburse hush payment
Ultimately said paid 420000 year connection hush payments explained included funds allow pay taxes payment 60000 bonus
All done express direction Mr Trump Mr Cohen testified We discussed said Everything go Mr Trump approved Mr Trump
The testimony seemed buttress claims Democrats government watchdog groups Mr Trump knowingly made false statement United States government omitting debts owed Mr Cohen 2017 personal financial disclosure statement
This congressional oversight actually yielding new evidence wrongdoing highest level government thats something congress supposed system checks balances said Noah Bookbinder executive director Citizens Responsibility Ethics Washington
His group filed complaint last year Justice Department Office Government Ethics asking investigation whether Mr Trump failed disclose debt And Wednesday said look like technical paperwork violation really goes issue keeping voters knowing need know make educated decisions


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maureen Dowd
Opinion Columnist
WASHINGTON Donald Trump specializes spectacular breakups
First Ivana Then Marla Now comes trouble paradise Kim
Last fall Trump cooed North Korean dictator wrote beautiful letters fell love president canceled lunch date following disappointing rendezvous Hanoi
Yet crazy tabloid splits international spats seem pallid comparison pathetic spectacle Congress Wednesday heartbroken ex publicly bitterly processing relationship Trump
This time wasnt lust betrayal secrets splayed across Page Six This time Congress part investigation could lead legal jeopardy Trumps impeachment president
In testimony Michael Cohen called fool came Trump I ignored conscience acted loyal man I Cohen said A fool love held thrall Trump How could anyone held thrall sleazy goofball much less offer take bullet make 500 threats behalf
It seems unbelievable I mesmerized Donald Trump I willing things I knew absolutely wrong said Cohen Goodfellas accent adding around icon intoxicating
Mr Trump enigma Cohen said He complicated I
Actually Trump simple grasping money attention fame The enigma Trump cut lap dog brutally Cohen fell embrace Robert Mueller New York federal prosecutors Trump often compared mob boss Michael Corleone would never turn loyal capo one crossed
The portrait Cohen drew Trump surprising It apparent time president con man racist cheat liar See Jared Kushner security clearance
What compelling congressional hearing portrait sadistic relationship sycophant sociopath
Cohen told House Oversight Committee working Trump made feel involved something greater somehow changing world
Threatening sue people take away livelihoods ruin reputations isnt exactly Greenpeace Doctors Without Borders But Cohen chugging Trump KoolAid He saw Trumps protector thugs thug
In late 2017 appeared get misty talking Vanity Fairs Emily Jane Fox Trump One man wants much good many detractors needs support He vowed would never walk away Trump matter A year ago even shopped around book meant rebuttal Michael Wolffs Fire Fury pitched family fixit guy titled Trump Revolution From Tower White House Understanding Donald J Trump
He understands Trump
A stung Trump went tweet storm Friday morning bringing book proposal calling love letter Trump manuscript noting Written submitted long Charlottesville Helsinki phony reasons going rogue Book exact opposite fake testimony lie
Unlike many Republican TV commentators wash away past sins Sarah Palin Iraq war get big payday liberal love trashing Trump Cohen destined reputation rehab
The problem nutshell Trump biographer Timothy OBrien told The Times Michael Cohen wasnt Roy Cohn The latter Trump lawyer one helped shape Trumps character lack thereof drumming winatallcosts mentality Donald learned fathers knee
Trump bleated Wheres Roy Cohn anger Jeff Sessions recusing wanted lawyer whipsmart amoral ruthless predatory Cohen merely Renfield Trumps Dracula gratefully eating insects fiends bidding
Trump used Cohen dirty deeds done dirt cheap ACDC sang
The Wall Street Journal reported Trump showed late Cohens sons bar mitzvah made belittling speech come Cohen begged everyone around The Times revealed last April Trump regularly threatened fire Cohen quoted Roger Stone saying Trump mocked Cohen overpaying Trump real estate
With exceptions inner circle family Trump doesnt give loyalty deserve Thats Republicans Hill obsequiously stand eventually learn wasnt worth Cohen warned
Loyalty rare commodity Washington And Cohen wretched sycophant political history That honor goes Andrew Young slavishly devoted aide John Edwards 2008 campaign served driver personal shopper handyman butler North Carolina senator
When Edwards affair campaign videographer Rielle Hunter pregnancy ensued persuaded Young say father Edwards also got Young go lam wife nurse Hunter baby hiding fancy hotels posh home near Santa Barbara odyssey financed Young Bunny Mellon As Young wrote The Politician inside campaign cultlike atmosphere encouraged extreme sycophancy
When Trump gave tour campaign headquarters Trump Tower summer 2016 introduced Cohen lawyer Cohen looked furtive standing around Trump favorites Corey Lewandowski Hope Hicks young guys desk whole bunch Trump portraits cutouts wall pictures Trumps vanquished primary rivals
It least presidential campaign headquarters ever drywall still unfinished places As The Times reported Cohen pushing years Trump president jealous attention Trump gave Lewandowski
When Trump somehow stumbled presidency family think Cohen snuff come Washington much less get highlevel job like chief staff dreamed The Journal reported Cohen guests even get priority access inaugural fetes
He central casting Trump Tower 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Trump biographer Michael DAntonio told The problem course much burdens Cohen exactly Trump liked past He willing awful command done countless times making countless enemies As someone target behavior I tell cartoonish ridiculous
Everyone disposable Trumpworld They sidelined fixer By time federal prosecutors investigating Cohens hush payments Trump inamoratas adultfilm actress former Playboy model Trump barely speaking Cohen
Boss I miss much said rare phone call Trump The Journal reported I wish I Its really hard
The yearning even palpable texts Jeff Bezos Lauren Sanchez
The selfstyled protector purdah resented
If Trump sophisticated ability think long term would anticipated Cohen might become problem didnt hold close OBrien told But Trump isnt longterm thinker
Hes never deal people faceplanted coming back haunt ever Hes people decades OBrien said The difference He never law enforcement turning people essentially weaponizing
DAntonio agreed president made mistake disrespecting Cohen believed purchased Michael would stay bought When underdog turns bites hard overdog always surprised
I invite follow Twitter MaureenDowd join Facebook
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion sign Opinion Today newsletter
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
He said working Donald Trump intoxicating Were feeling hung
By Michelle Cottle
Ms Cottle member editorial board
Liar liar pants fire
It Representative Paul Gosar Republican Arizona burst forth playground taunt Michael Cohen longtime fixer personal lawyer President Trump appeared Wednesday House Oversight Reform Committee talk former boss
But Mr Gosars observation isolated zinger encapsulation partys overarching approach Mr Cohens testimony It also provides pretty good sense minds hearing likely change era bitter polarization tough bring clarity swirl controversies engulfing president
As spectacle opening Washington 12 time zones away Hanoi president wrapping friendly dinner Kim Jongun tyrannical leader North Korea Mr Trump hopes pageantry peacemaking Asia overshadow damaging testimony former confidant written lying rat
We await results Mr Trumps Mr Kims negotiations We hope edifying House hearings
Oh India Pakistan possessed nuclear weapons engaged escalating hostilities including downing two Indian warplanes Wednesday
This world live
On Capitol Hill committee Republicans waste time disputing Mr Cohens characterization Mr Trump racist con man cheat At one point Representative Mark Meadows asked Lynne Patton AfricanAmerican woman worked Trump family party planner serves administration stand behind citing proof president possibly racist Thats substantive pushback got
Instead Republicans stuck discrediting vivisecting witness Member member detailed Mr Cohens financial fraud tax evasion professional disloyalty course previous lies Congress The committees ranking Republican Jim Jordan highdudgeon dangerously overcaffeinated seemed particularly troubled origins authenticity Twitter account Women Cohen pushed ridiculous flattery Mr Cohens manliness sexy handsome
Message Mr Cohen liar swindler narcissist felon fool would listen Multiple Republicans fact went length disgrace Democrats provided platform scoundrel
While quibbling details Mr Cohen disagree Republicans critique Early often acknowledged done bad things soon would spending time prison He however one point feel moved observe Mr Jordan
I find interesting sir colleagues one question far asked President Trump Thats actually I thought I coming today
Aware credibility problems Mr Cohen showed hard proof Trumpian misdeeds personal check president allegedly used reimburse Mr Cohen payment Stormy Daniels evidence Mr Trump arranged portrait purchased charity auction straw buyer repaid Mr Trumps charitable foundation letters Mr Trump instructed Mr Cohen write warning presidents high school colleges College Board release grades test scores without permission
Mr Cohen noted threatening people Mr Trumps behalf integral part job estimating decade called upon around 500 times
The whole dreary spectacle produced fresh tidbits Mr Cohens claim Mr Trump year term explicitly directed lie presidents involvement hushmoney scheme none seem likely alter competing narratives pushed presidents critics allies Alexandria OcasioCortez Democrats star freshman laid groundwork demanding presidents tax returns issuing future subpoenas Trump lackeys Mr Cohen suggested federal prosecutors New York investigating asyetunrevealed Trumpian crimes He also ominously fretted I fear loses election 2020 never peaceful transition power
Mr Cohen said working Mr Trump intoxicating But something changed Mr Cohens performance likely first many soulbarings play hearing rooms courtrooms coming months
I regret day I said yes Mr Trump said I regret help support I gave along way
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
letters
Readers discuss Mr Cohens credibility critique questioners
To Editor
Re Cohen Accuses Trump Lies CoverUps front page Feb 28
The political theater display Wednesdays hearing revealed much state country character deeds Michael Cohen Donald Trump It wrenching hardtoswallow exposé polarizing blasé political legal cultural climate allowed likes Michael Cohen operate thrive long Mr Trumps personal fixer intimidator enabler We beginning see consequences
We see meaningful correction country whole willing deal root causes pervasive dysfunction
Angel Kozeli MozinaBoston
To Editor
Michael Cohens credibility rests corroborating documentation brought His portrait president matches perfectly everything know man oratory actions tweets
Peter ClothierLaguna Beach Calif
To Editor
Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez put colleagues shame She demonstrated hearing entail Be prepared ask factual questions listen The rest committee members lot learn
Kay DormanLong Beach Township NJ
To Editor
Re Republican Offers Appointee Living Proof Trumps No Racist news article Feb 28
Representative Mark Meadows ashamed best friends black stunt former Trump Organization employee black appear hearing The mere fact thinks thats probative issue racism demonstrates doesnt get
Lawrence WeismanWestport Conn
To Editor
I know live age facts alternative facts news fake news Michael Cohens testimony lies somewhere mans land myth reality It poorly scripted badly acted effort look sincere time settling scores Shakespeare right It tale full sound fury signifying nothing
Bernard F DickTeaneck NJ
To Editor
As I listened Representative Elijah Cummingss closing remarks I could imagine comments coming previous Republican chairmen Oversight Committee likes Trey Gowdy Darrell Issa Jason Chaffetz So imbued grace remarks Mr Cummings devoid polish signs preparation piercing haunting cry better America stood stark difference party Donald Trump whose members demonstrated could evince belligerent snark ad hominem attacks utter lack concern truth
Jack SwansonIrvine Calif
To Editor
Despite ranting raving pounding table Republican members House Oversight Committee implied agreement everything Michael Cohen said questioning facts
Its great see parties agreement
Jon MeyersonBeverly MeyersonSarasota Fla
To Editor
President Trumps signature 35000 check points possibly committed crime office The thing hush money scheme likely crime got office Had Stormy Daniels scandal hushed theres good chance would lost election That takes possible crime whole new level Its old campaign finance violation
Vicki Riba KoestlerAlexandria Va
To Editor
The irony Republican representatives trying smear Michael Cohen testimony quoting newspaper articles fake media rich The media fake theyre How convenient
Susan M BrantingColumbia Md
To Editor
I delighted see vigorous insistence truthtelling Republican members House Oversight Committee questioning Michael Cohen Maybe get used
Alan GotthelfNew York
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Too many representatives chose bloviate instead interrogate except one
By Caroline Fredrickson
Ms Fredrickson president American Constitution Society
On Wednesday Michael Cohen President Trumps onetime personal lawyer fixer testified front House Oversight Reform Committee says variety shady practices participated working president People around country awaited riveting testimony going far join watch parties bars
But like many congressional hearings fireworks quick flame Even tantalizing opportunity grill Mr Cohen myriad ways former boss likely sought evade law avoid creditors many members committee parties could resist usual grandstanding
Consider line questioning Alexandria OcasioCortez New York She asked Mr Cohen series specific questions Mr Trump handled insurance claims whether provided accurate information various companies To knowledge asked Donald Trump ever provide inflated assets insurance company He
She asked whether Mr Trump tried reduce local taxes undervaluing assets Mr Cohen confirmed president also done You deflate value asset put request tax department deduction Mr Cohen said explaining practice These sort questions answers committee supposed elicit Somehow newer members got memo
Get personal less conventional take political developments newsmakers cultural milestones Frank Brunis weekly newsletter
Ms OcasioCortez continued asking Do think need review financial statements tax returns order compare She pressed Mr Cohen names others would able corroborate testimony provide documents support charges In response Mr Cohen listed executives Allen Weisselberg Ron Lieberman Matthew Calamari names thanks part Ms OcasioCortez probably hear coming months
These questions random rather well thought Like good prosecutor Ms OcasioCortez establishing factual basis committee investigation She asked one question time avoided longwinded speeches asking question listened carefully answer gave basis followup inquiry As result Mr Cohen gave specific answers Mr Trumps shady practices along road map find Mr Cohen began testimony calling Mr Trump con man cheat In five minutes Ms OcasioCortez actually helped lay facts substantiate charges
Unfortunately colleagues followed suit In testimony Mr Cohen claimed numerous ethical breaches criminal acts part president many Mr Cohen apparently served main actor He spoke illegal campaign payoffs rigging electoral polls threatening people crossed president possible witness tampering even falsifying financial records He spoke conduct office would cross even generous reading ethical legal boundaries
All areas offered fruitful avenues exploration But instead asking probing questions eliciting damning evidence Mr Cohen many committee members chose make speech Jeffrey Toobin The New Yorker tweeted frustration Bipartisan incompetence questioning cohen hearing All make speeches fail listen answers follow He tweeted sample followup questions hoping desperately someone might try He give credit several members understand art questioning including Representatives Katie Hill Jackie Speier But shocking members actually understand basic function hearing chose ignore collective goals favor showboating
As someone worked Hill nonprofit advocate I accustomed frustration opportunities lost questions asked witnesses allowed get away without really answering question Often stakes low cost great
But Committee Chairman Elijah Cummingss outstanding closing remarks made clear face nation consequential president faces multiple inquiries possible collusion foreign power need members Congress Ms OcasioCortez many followers social media I hope colleagues start follow example hearing room
Caroline Fredrickson crfredrickson president American Constitution Society author Under Bus How Working Women Are Being Run Over forthcoming The Democracy Fix How Win Fight Fair Rules Fair Courts Fair Elections
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement












Paul Manaforts Trail Scandals
My Dead Dads Porno Tapes
Ten Meter Tower
Between Sound Silence
Coal Miner Trump Coal Mining Isnt Coming Back
House Tour Cary Leibowitz
Sanctuary City Hotline
2011 Arab Spring
Can The President Be Impeached We Answer Your Questions
Calving Season
Michael D Cohen former lawyer fixer President Donald J Trump took stand Wednesday February 27 2019 testify publicly Mr Trump House Oversight Committee
This part destiny Cummings tells Cohen
I want point single questioner Democratled House asked Cohen relationship Sean Hannity described legal client court New York
Ooh good point Maggie
What day
And Cummings brings gavel hearing close
Cohen back Capitol Hill tomorrow testifying behind closed doors House intelligence committee
This astonishing day congress one without precedent Cummings gave Cohen powerful cinematic final statement cap said Cohen swarmed people middle hearing room tries exit
I agree Maggie We grown accustomed since Trump came national stage extraordinary political moments Even context today sure feels like one Michael Cohen one Trumps closest aides rebuked oath Congress warned threat American democracy implicated sitting president criminal activity campaign office
A forceful closing statement Chairman Cummings call action We Got Get Back Normal This hearing adjourned
There going days debate Cohen said His comments Donald Trump Jr dismissed presidents allies aides His comments Roger Stone Wikileaks objected Stone Trump interview weeks ago But checks Cohen brought indisputable
And checks reimbursements hush money signed president son chief financial officer company
Cohen painted picture line mob boss US president
And Republicans doubt landed blows Cohen I sure undercut enough negate evidence concrete elements testimony
I agree Nick
I hope folks check Peter Bakers Nicks story day find
wwwnytimescom20190227uspoliticsmichaelcohentestifiestr
Thanks reading along folks Not sure next time quite like hope see
This key aspect Cohens testimony Trump lawyer
Statement Jay Sekulow Counsel President
Todays testimony Michael Cohen attorneys President edited changed statement Congress alter duration Trump Tower Moscow negotiations completely false
And really signing Thanks folks
Advertisement
Supported
It apparently legal presidents soninlaw serve top White House adviser But grant immunity
By The Editorial Board
The editorial board represents opinions board editor publisher It separate newsroom OpEd section
For President Trump era congressional oversight shaping family affair three eldest children Donald Jr Ivanka Eric risk getting swept multiple investigations But none Trump clan may face thorough goingover Jared Kushner presidents soninlaw top White House adviser
Mr Kushner week among long list Trumpworld intimates asked provide documents House Judiciary Committee looks possible presidential misdeeds
This request landed continuing tussle heating Mr Kushner House Oversight Reform Committee examining claims Mr Trump arranged soninlaw granted topsecret security clearance objections intelligence officials
In cases White House signaled intent defy Congress arguing executive privilege legislative overreach On Monday White House counsel Pat Cipollone sent letter oversight committee chairman Elijah Cummings rebuffing request effectively daring start issuing subpoenas Mr Cummings said would confer colleagues determine comes next
However Democrats proceed Mr Kushners peculiar role fatherinlaws White House prompted widespread concern broader specific generic questions accountability competence often raised raw nepotism
Unease Mr Kushners access secret information appears go beyond politics Mr Trumps intelligence officials said balked idea giving soninlaw access Donald McGahn stint White House counsel
Mr Trump overrode advice ordered Mr Kushners clearance granted last May
These casual offhand objections After president made decision Mr McGahn reportedly troubled wrote internal memo detailing concerns Mr Kushner including CIA making clear recommended move
John Kelly time White House chief staff said felt similarly moved write memo stating explicitly ordered president grant Mr Kushners clearance
If true yet another point Mr Trump misled public insisting January played role arranging soninlaws clearance Just last month Ivanka Trump made similar claim asserting father involvement pertaining clearance husbands clearance zero
Those untruths nowhere near troubling fact intelligence administration officials reportedly loath grant Mr Kushner access governments deepest secrets
What CIAs specific hesitation concerning Mr Kushner topsecret information Why agency continue deny access sensitive compartmentalized information Why FBI raise questions foreign influence Mr Kushner
As The Times reported last month
The full scope intelligence officials concerns Mr Kushner known But clearance held part questions FBI CIA foreign business contacts including related Israel United Arab Emirates Russia according multiple people familiar events
Mr Kushners inaccurate statements FBI foreign interactions cause additional concern
And many many eyebrows raised Mr Kushners special friendship Mohammed bin Salman crown prince Saudi Arabia coziness strategically aggressively cultivated Saudis Out fear Mr Kushner naïve ways diplomacy foreign affairs susceptible manipulation prince Mr Kelly attempted curtail two mens private talks reinstating requirement National Security Council officials participate calls foreign leaders
No matter Mr Kushner Prince Mohammeds bond grew even withstanding conclusion American intelligence agencies prince ordered torture murder journalist Jamal Khashoggi Amid global outrage killing Mr Kushner among princes fiercest defenders
Mr Kushner lowlevel White House functionary He charged bringing peace Middle East presidents star emissary Saudi government The public compelling interest knowing made intelligence community nervous
Putting member presidents family investigatory hot seat delicate business Voters get squeamish watching politicians wife daughter soninlaw field tough questions Thats excuse letting avoid accountability
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Theyve got better things Dripping Springs
By Gail Collins
Opinion Columnist
So Michael Cohen started testimony declaring president United States racist con man cheat The Republicans supposed grilling responded saying um
Well mainly complained hearing happening I appalled We could focused actual issues facing America like border security
Nobody jumped yelled A racist How dare call man racist To fair one Republican committee member demur brought black government appointee stand look diverse
But couldnt say lot expressions shock Nobody announced good authority checks Cohen got Trump reimbursements Stormy Daniels payoff rather anonymous donations orphanage
The Republicans simply argued whole thing dumb waste time
I talked beautiful wife back Dripping Springs Tex hearing I said Dont bother watching said Representative Chip Roy
The hearing House Oversight Committee course new Democratic control Cohen showed members 35000 check said president gave partial repayment Stormy Daniels payoff
Nothing better evidence exhibit But public inured Trump scandals theres almost way raise new excitement Stormys sexwiththefuturepresident story Unless Cohen could demonstrated thenboss wrote hush money check memo
Nevertheless always new things learned
For instance Cohen testified Donald Trump Jrs role payoff deal In passing said president thought son worst judgment anyone world
Wonder Junior reacted This presumably Ivanka whos supposed bright one family denounced idea guaranteed minimum wage felt Americans want work get
Cohen claimed years serving Trumps hatchet man never heard boss say anything private led believe loved nation wanted make better
That could cue Republicans offer multitude examples contrary But part got one white male representative another announcing Cohen ignored hes due go prison lying
Almost everybody knows Donald Trump appears going prison lying Or awaiting sentencing lying Or facing charges lying If Donald Trump intimate federal authorities come calling careful tell truth Or move Papua New Guinea
Even jaded Trump watcher parts Cohen testimony worth discussing For instance said Trump threatened legal action make sure old high school colleges College Board kept grades SAT score secret
Certainly surprise Trump doesnt want publicize details academic career But still great question keep harping drive completely nuts Maybe every day House Democrats could make speech floor And introduce C student sense humor could announce hes proud following presidential footsteps intellectual mediocrity
Cohen testified Trump going back forth Forbes magazine attempt get good spot Wealthiest list While simultaneously trying push income reported tax purposes Lets hope Democrats use another lever get hands tax returns Truly would development even better calling Donald Jr testify role Cohen payments fathers assessment judgment
We certainly know Cohen perfect After spent 12 years Trumps lawyer Representative Jim Jordan top Republican committee even brought Women Cohen account put promote littleknown role sex symbol
But Cohen made pretty good witness looking appropriately miserable answering questions convincingly balance He told lawmakers rumors mystery tape showing Trump hitting wife elevator untrue opinion thats something would On hand said Trump make call Melania lie Stormy Daniels unpleasantness
While going president Asia dining Kim Jongun North Korea Previous negotiations Kim produced monster publicity little way nuclear disarmament
Nevertheless Trump seems believe may get Nobel Peace Prize He really seems want lot Maybe Nobel committee offered trade tax returns
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Gail Collins OpEd columnist former member editorial board first woman serve Times editorial page editor 2001 2007 GailCollins Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos
WASHINGTON The chairman House Oversight Reform Committee revealed information Thursday said showed Ivanka Trump Jared Kushner used private messaging services official White House business way may violated federal records laws
The chairman Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland said lawyer Ms Trump President Trumps daughter Mr Kushner presidents soninlaw senior adviser told committee late last year addition private email account Mr Kushner uses unofficial encrypted messaging service WhatsApp official White House business including foreign contacts
Mr Cummings said lawyer Abbe Lowell also told lawmakers Ms Trump preserve emails sent private account reply
Democrats barely able contain frustration see dark irony findings earlier news reports couples use private email accounts Mr Trump made Hillary Clintons use private email server secretary state central line attack 2016 campaign president Even FBI declined charge Mrs Clinton practices handling classified information Republicans Congress continued pick away case
Update The use private email chats time Trumps family comes fire
Mr Lowell could say Mr Kushner communicated classified information messaging service WhatsApp telling lawmakers pay grade He asserted Mr Kushner took screenshots communications sent official White House account National Security Council client violation federal records laws
In letter Thursday disclosing new information Mr Cummings said findings added urgency investigation possible violations Presidential Records Act members Trump administration including Mr Kushner Ms Trump He accused White House stonewalling committee information requested months ago Republicans still controlled House
The White Houses failure provide documents information obstructing committees investigation allegations violations federal records laws White House officials Mr Cummings wrote He said would forced consider alternative means obtain compliance documents requested White House communications record keeping shared committee indication could subpoena
Steven Groves White House lawyer said White House would review Mr Cummingss letter provide reasonable response due course
Mr Lowell letter accused Mr Cummings misrepresenting parts told lawmakers last year disputed suggestions either clients broken law
The oversight committee first began scrutinizing use private communications services White House 2017 amid news reports Mr Kushner used private email account government business Ms Trump done
Mr Kushners use WhatsApp also reported earlier least one instance scope previously known CNN reported October Mr Kushner communicated Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman de facto leader Saudi Arabia using WhatsApp
Mr Lowell confirmed details Mr Kushners private messaging use though communications Prince Mohammed meeting December Mr Cummings committees chairman time Representative Trey Gowdy Republican South Carolina Asked Mr Kushner cleared use messaging app communicate foreign leaders Mr Lowell recommended lawmakers ask National Security Council White House Mr Cummings said
On Thursday Mr Lowell said contrary Mr Cummingss letter asserted confirmed presidents soninlaw communicating WhatsApp foreign leaders merely messaged people More broadly Mr Lowell said told lawmakers privy many details Mr Kushners use WhatsApp instructing question White House counsel
Mr Lowell also took issue Mr Cummingss account said Ms Trump
In letter Mr Cummings said speaking Mr Lowell believed Ms Trump could also potentially violation Presidential Records Act use private email account Specifically said Mr Lowell told committee although Ms Trump forwards workrelated emails received personal account official government account responds message
Mr Lowell though said oversimplifying response In exchange highlighted chairman referring Ms Trumps practices September 2017 said Since said always forwards official business White House account
Mr Cummingss committee separately investigating circumstances Mr Kushner Ms Trump administration officials received security clearances The New York Times reported last month Mr Trump personally intervened secure topsecret clearance Mr Kushner despite legal national security concerns raised advisers
Mr Kushner Ms Trump appear current former White House officials Mr Cummingss sights personal email use He wrote Thursday also obtained documents apparently showing K T McFarland used personal AOL account official business served deputy national security adviser Stephen K Bannon done White House adviser
Mr Cummings set April 4 deadline White House comply latest requests To extent though remains seen
The White House generally resistant far satisfy requests House Democrats
On Thursday White House counsel Pat Cipollone rejected another request Mr Cummings chairmen Intelligence Foreign Affairs committees information Mr Trumps private communications President Vladimir V Putin Russia In letter said Constitution courts granted president broad authority conduct foreign policy presidents parties rightly fought protect communications foreign leaders
While respectfully seek accommodate appropriate oversight requests unaware precedent supporting sweeping requests Mr Cipollone wrote
Maggie Haberman contributed reporting
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maggie Haberman Annie Karni
WASHINGTON In waning days 2016 presidential campaign Donald J Trump turned focus FBI investigation Hillary Clintons use private email server secretary state suggesting bigger Watergate
Her criminal action willful deliberate intentional purposeful said rally Phoenix Hillary set illegal server obvious purpose shielding criminal conduct public disclosure exposure knowing full well actions put national security risk
Democrats charge Mr Trumps eldest daughter husband serve aides president things pilloried Mrs Clinton
The basis accusations letter Rep Elijah E Cummings chairman House Oversight Reform Committee sent Thursday Pat Cipollone White House counsel saying Jared Kushner presidents soninlaw senior adviser used WhatsApp unofficial encrypted messaging service communicate foreign contacts official White House business
Mr Cummings also said Ivanka Trump presidents eldest daughter preserve emails sent private account claimed past contradicting previous claims possibly violating federal records laws
It first time questions raised Ms Trump Mr Kushner used private communications government roles Both used personal email accounts communicate White House officials cabinet secretaries official business But irony new accusations savored Mrs Clintons former aides
For endless faults Jared least know chutzpah means said Philippe Reines top adviser Mrs Clinton referring Yiddish word meaning gall
And theres specific Yiddish word continuing practice even Democrats took control House mashugana fits Mr Reines said referring word meaning crazy
Mr Cummings based findings Ms Trump Mr Kushner committee told couples lawyer Abbe Lowell But Mr Lowell insisted letter committee Mr Cummings twisting statements said claimed
A spokeswoman committee said confident facts described Mr Lowell would like produce documents aid investigation committee open receiving information
Republican members House Oversight Committee attended meeting Mr Lowell said internal memo late Friday Mr Cummingss letter falsely maligned Ms Trump Mr Kushner They said misconstrued mischaracterized Mr Lowell said In recollections said Mr Lowell described governmentrelated emails minimal said preserved said classified material sent
And rejected comparisons Mrs Clinton saying set private server specifically evade records requests
Ms Trump Mr Kushner past insisted equivalency Mrs Clintons use private email server served secretary state use private email accounts conduct government affairs
Everythings preserved everythings archived equivalency two things Ms Trump said interview Good Morning America last year initial reports used personal email account government work
But Mr Cummingss letter suggested reason believe case
The disclosures Mr Kushners Ms Trumps methods communication raise questions whether violated federal law preserving communications whether shared classified information nongovernment accounts kinds charges Mr Trump thought disqualified 2016 opponent enough put jail
The serious issue may much violation Presidential Records Act reason decision circumvent said Robert F Bauer served White House counsel former President Barack Obama That red flag
A White House official insisted Mr Kushner Ms Trump never improperly handled classified material
In past Ms Trump Mr Kushner claimed familiar rules applied Yet current former White House officials familiar guidance aides given said two given ample warning That includes warnings using chat apps supposed prohibited government business
The couple continued balk notion similarities circumstances Mrs Clintons There differences also lot equivalencies according lawyer familiar federal record keeping
Mrs Clintons case occurred Federal Records Act regulations promulgated State Department Mr Kushner Ms Trumps case contrast concerns Presidential Records Act passed 1978 Watergate scandal declares presidential records public property The important thing according attorneys prohibit destruction records described private
Mr Lowell said time know Mr Kushner communicated classified information messaging service WhatsApp telling lawmakers pay grade He argued Mr Kushner took screenshots communications sent official White House account National Security Council therefore violated federal records laws
But Mrs Clintons former aides said willing give Mr Kushner particular benefit doubt
WhatsApp two main uses youre trying save international data charges youre trying hide communications circumvent law said Nick Merrill spokesman Mrs Clinton I think pretty clear appeals Jared Kushner
Brian Fallon served Mrs Clintons press secretary 2016 campaign said thought Kushner lying lawyers purposes navigating tricky PR situation The idea faithfully took screenshots probably bogus
Mr Fallon also served Justice Department spokesman Obama administration said Congress could ask Facebook proof Mr Kushner took screenshots messages White House could also investigate whether screen grabs exist servers
This something country take Jared Kushner lawyers words said
The former Clinton aides also cited Mr Kushners omission dozens meetings foreign leaders including Russian contacts forms required gain topsecret security clearance omission lawyer time called clerical error And Mr Lowell statement implied someone White House misled claimed Mr Trump intervene grant clearance although specify
An earlier version article referred incorrectly timing appearance Ivanka Trump made Good Morning America The appearance came shortly reports Ms Trump used personal email account government work unrelated reports Hillary Clinton
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
My appearance Congress helped take president Will thing happen Trump
By John W Dean
Mr Dean White House counsel Richard Nixon
There several parallels testimony Congress 1973 President Richard Nixon White House Michael Cohens testimony week President Trump business practices Setting aside differences regarding got found speaking Congress multiple open closed venues criminal conduct sitting president United States This pleasant place particularly given presidents involved
There differences Unlike Mr Cohen testified public day I testified five days His prepared statement 4000 words mine 60000 words Nielsen reports 16 million people watched testimony I told 80 million people watched part mine
Polls varied widely testimony One said 50 percent Americans believed 30 percent 20 percent sure Another poll 38 percent believing president denied statement 37 percent believing The instant polls Mr Cohens testimony vary party affiliation case polls But 35 percent found credible I believe number grow
While testimony eventually corroborated secret recordings conversations made Mr Nixon witnesses made difference I surprised number people surfaced support account The I suspect happen Michael Cohen The Mafias code omertà force public service I heard one Roger Stone say go jail Donald Trump
Mr Cohen understand Mr Trump removed office defeated 2020 part testimony reminded rest life He blamed Republicans appreciated Democrats If achieves anything short discovering cure cancer always live pigeonhole How I know I still dealing
Just Mr Nixon admirers apologists Mr Trump Some people forever rewriting history try rewrite Mr Cohens expense They put words mouth never spoke They place events wasnt present locations never Some tried rewriting life rewrite
I thinking people like Mr Stone longtime Trump associate worked 1972 Nixon campaign admires former president tattoo mans likeness shoulder blades Mr Stone I never met White House indicted part inquiry special counsel Robert Mueller charges lying Congress efforts contact WikiLeaks 2016 presidential campaign
He prides political dirty trickster never met conspiracy theory believe Mr Cohen sure Mr Stone promote new conspiracy theories defend Mr Trump even means rewriting history Presidential scandals tend attract remarkable number dishonest historians
There one overarching similarity Mr Cohen I share He came understand reject Mr Trump I Mr Nixon
Mr Nixon first called regarding Watergate eight months arrests reelection committee operatives Watergate We 37 conversations I felt I confidence I tried failed get end coverup The day I told Mr Nixon cancer presidency day I met real Nixon I knew I break rank
Mr Cohen likewise come see Mr Trump true nature At end testimony House Oversight Committee sought permission read closing statement
He thanked members accepted responsibility bad behavior He told legislators Given experience working Mr Trump I fear loses election 2020 never peaceful transition power I agreed appear today This troubling actually chilling thing said five hours committee
Since Mr Cohens warning came closing words opportunity committee members ask followup questions So I doublechecked lawyer Lanny Davis I understood Mr Cohens testimony correctly Mr Davis responded He referring Trumps authoritarian mindset lack respect democracy democratic institutions
Indeed similar Mr Cohens testimony challenged authoritarian presidents United States revealing lies abuses power Mr Trump first authoritarian president since Mr Nixon neither supporters play fair Mr Cohen dealing people rest life
In fact Americans affected growing authoritarianism made Mr Trump president These people facilitated rise remain long Mr Trump gone We need pay attention
John W Dean served White House counsel Richard Nixon author Conservatives Without Conscience revising discuss Donald Trump followers collaboration Bob Altemeyer retired professor psychology University Manitoba leading expert authoritarianism
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Peter Baker Nicholas Fandos
WASHINGTON President Trumps longtime lawyer fixer accused Wednesday expansive pattern lies criminality offering damning portrayal life inside presidents orbit said advisers sacrificed integrity proximity power
Michael D Cohen represented Mr Trump decade laid Congress first time series deceptions president He charged Mr Trump lied public business interests Russia lied reporters stolen Democratic emails told Mr Cohen lie hush payments cover sexual misconduct
The accusations aired daylong hearing House Oversight Reform Committee exposed dark underside Mr Trumps business political worlds voice one ultimate insiders Perhaps close associate turned president front Congress dramatic fashion high stakes since John Dean testified President Richard M Nixon Watergate scandal
He racist He con man And cheat Mr Cohen said president Mr Cohen pleaded guilty lying oath Congress among crimes said protect Mr Trump I protecting Mr Trump anymore said
While details different portrait president broadly resembles provided others split Mr Trump including former aides business associates even onetime ghostwriter likewise described president bullies dissembles cheats serve interests
Donald Trump inflated value assets documents given Deutsche Bank Michael Cohen testified
But remained unclear whether Mr Cohens testimony would change political dynamics series scandals already polarized Washington country could lead impeachment battle year Representative Elijah E Cummings Democrat Maryland committee chairman said afterward Mr Trump may committed crime office Republicans unmoved
Assailing Mr Cohen proven liar denounced hearing charade embarrassment country orchestrated partisan Democrats seeking pretext try remove Mr Trump office Democrats said Republicans ran away truth sought defend corrupt president employed textbook mob tactics
Michael D Cohen former lawyer fixer President Donald J Trump took stand Wednesday morning testify publicly Mr Trump House Oversight Committee
The hearing took place president halfway around world Vietnam meeting North Koreas leader His family advisers expressed anger timing arguing Democrats undercutting Mr Trump sensitive nuclear diplomacy political gain
As many moments Trump era hearing seemed much partisan theater factfinding Democrats Republicans set forth conflicting narratives man served Mr Trump either duplicitous disgruntled former employee fallen sinner trying redeem coming clean
Through sat Mr Cohen 52 dark circles puffy eyes already tired eight hours testimony behind closed doors day awaiting threeyear prison term begins spring Apologizing repeatedly family Mr Cohen portrayed broken man brought hubris one point choking wiping tears eyes mention effect daughter
Through five hours nationally televised testimony Mr Cohen described years working Mr Trump trip world deceit nowdisbarred lawyer ignored conscience get close magnetic person power
Sitting today seems unbelievable I mesmerized Donald Trump I willing things I knew absolutely wrong Mr Cohen said When met Mr Trump knew real estate giant icon center action Being around Mr Trump intoxicating said
In private business Mr Cohen said rationalized Mr Trumps dishonesty trivial president said I consider significant dangerous
The presidents reelection campaign organization dismissed Mr Cohen Wednesday convicted perjurer trusted This Michael Cohen admitted lied Congress previously Kayleigh McEnany campaigns national press secretary said statement Why even bother swear time
Republicans committee aggressively challenged Mr Cohen along lines Representative Jim Jordan Ohio ranking Republican called Mr Cohen fraudster cheat convicted felon two months federal inmate
Mr Jordan questioned Mr Cohens motives assailing Mr Trumps character actions suggesting former lawyer embittered new president bring Washington
You wanted work White House Mr Jordan said
No sir Mr Cohen replied
didnt get brought dance
I want go White House Mr Cohen asserted
Eric Trump one presidents sons took issue Twitter Michael lobbying EVERYONE Chief Staff wrote It biggest joke campaign around office Did perjure
The hearing drew enormous interest Capitol Hill Democrats last month took control House pressure liberal base take Mr Trump The crowds huge sense drama palpable Lawmakers parties listened raptly Mr Cohens 30minute opening statement
Mr Cohen laid series actions Mr Trump bolster previous accusations news stories presenting documents corroborate account including copies checks issued president trust said reimbursements 130000 hush payments Mr Cohen made Stormy Daniels pornographic film actress alleged affair Mr Trump
Mr Cohen said Mr Trump candidate initiated hush payment plan president arranged 11 checks reimbursing lawyer part criminal scheme violate campaign finance laws crime Mr Cohen pleaded guilty
After news reports payments February 2018 Mr Cohen told lawmakers president called told say Mr Trump knowledgeable reimbursements wasnt knowledgeable Mr Cohens actions Mr Trump later told reporters know
Mr Trumps signature 35000 check Mr Cohen however appeared contradict Asked later reporters meant Mr Trump committed crime office Mr Cummings said Based looking checks listening Mr Cohen appears
Mr Trump likewise report debt Mr Cohen annual financial disclosure statement 2017 report paying 2018 form
Mr Cohen told lawmakers Mr Trump personally monitored negotiations build Trump Tower Moscow asking least halfdozen times January June 2016 even running president
Mr Trump knew directed Trump Moscow negotiations throughout campaign lied Mr Cohen said He lied never expected win He also lied stood make hundreds millions dollars Moscow real estate project
In previous testimony prosecution Mr Cohen lied Congress saying negotiations ended January 2016 Mr Trump explicitly instruct lie Congress Mr Cohen said actions made clear wanted lie presidents lawyers reviewed even edited Mr Cohens false statement Congress
Mr Cohen said direct evidence Mr Trump campaign colluded Russia But added I suspicions
He pointed June 2016 meeting Trump Tower Donald Trump Jr candidates eldest son Jared Kushner soninlaw Paul Manafort campaign chairman met visiting Russians told dirt Hillary Clinton Russian government
transcript
Hosted Michael Barbaro produced Rachel Quester Alexandra Leigh Young Theo Balcomb edited Lisa Tobin
In extraordinary public hearing Donald Trumps former fixer known unflinchingly loyal became star witness
michael barbaro
From The New York Times Im Michael Barbaro This The Daily Today Michael Cohen headed prison lying behalf Donald Trump Yesterday told Congress hes done protecting president Its Thursday February 28 Maggie Haberman hearing actually begin Wednesday morning
maggie haberman
The hearing began dramatic fashion Elijah Cummings chairs committee Democrat holding gavel Michael Cohen walking crush photographers reporters trailed Lanny Davis attorney sometimes spokesman trailed another attorneys member family I believe worried attending hearing He sat His face wan His eyes puffy He looked exhausted defeated beaten And could hear pin drop sat
archived recording elijah cummings
The committee come order
maggie haberman
So Cummings gate
archived recording elijah cummings
I recognize five minutes give opening statement
maggie haberman
addressed issue Michael Cohens credibility
archived recording elijah cummings
He admitted lying actions protect president Some certainly ask Mr Cohen lying believe
archived recording
Good question
archived recording elijah cummings
This legitimate question
maggie haberman
It clear Republicans going go right Cohen accusing liar somebody admitted lying including admitting lying Congress gave testimony 2017 So Cummings hoping put bed outset
archived recording elijah cummings
This important factor need weigh But must weigh must hear
michael barbaro
And Maggie I found fascinating Cummings close opening statement He delivers message straight Cohen
archived recording elijah cummings
Martin Luther King Mr Cohen said words I leave today testify He said faith taking first step even cant see whole staircase There comes time silence becomes betrayal Our lives begin end day become silent things truly matter In end says remember words enemies silence friends
maggie haberman
And quote hes trying set Michael Cohens testimony hes truthful said lie saying truth And important set way forward hearing began
archived recording elijah cummings
Raise right hand Do swear affirm testimony give whole truth nothing truth help God Let record show witness answered affirmative And thank may seated
maggie haberman
So Michael Cohen begins opening statement And long
archived recording michael cohen
I hope appearance today guilty plea work law enforcement agencies steps along path redemption restore faith help country understand president better
maggie haberman
And began apologizing lying Congress
archived recording michael cohen
I oath correct record answer committees questions truthfully offer American people I know President Trump
maggie haberman
And turned Donald Trump
archived recording michael cohen
I ashamed I chose take part concealing Mr Trumps illicit acts rather listening conscience I ashamed I know Mr Trump
maggie haberman
And depicted Donald Trump unsavory unethical immoral character
archived recording michael cohen
Mr Trump racist The country seen Mr Trump court white supremacists bigots You heard call poorer countries expletive In private even worse He asked I name country run black person wasnt expletive This Barack Obama president United States And driving struggling neighborhood Chicago commented black people could live way And told black people would never vote stupid
maggie haberman
Somebody told Oval Office Oval Office meeting would sending reimbursement hush money payments
archived recording michael cohen
Trump con man He asked pay adult film star affair lie wife I And lying first lady one biggest regrets
maggie haberman
He portrayed Donald Trump cheat
archived recording michael cohen
And come surprise one common responsibilities Mr Trump directed call business owners many small businesses owed money services told payment reduced payment would coming When I told Mr Trump success actually reveled
maggie haberman
As schemer would inflate net worth devalue depending useful various points
archived recording michael cohen
It experience Mr Trump inflated total assets served purposes trying listed amongst wealthiest people Forbes deflated assets reduce real estate taxes
maggie haberman
At one point Michael Cohen told detailed story Donald Trumps relationship Vietnam War Remember Donald Trump said deferment draft quote unquote bone spurs
archived recording michael cohen
But I asked medical records gave none said surgery He told answer specific questions reporters rather offer simply fact received medical deferment He finished conversation following comment Do think Im stupid Im going Vietnam
maggie haberman
And moment Michael Cohen looked directly camera
archived recording michael cohen
And I find ironic Mr President Vietnam right
michael barbaro
Right
maggie haberman
It damning stuff
archived recording michael cohen
A lot people asked whether Mr Trump knew release hacked documents Democratic National Committee emails ahead time And answer yes In July 2016 days Democratic Convention I Mr Trumps office secretary announced Roger Stone phone Mr Trump put Mr Stone speakerphone Mr Stone told Mr Trump gotten phone Julian Assange Mr Assange told Mr Stone within couple days would massive dump emails would damage Hillary Clintons campaign Mr Trump responded stating effect wouldnt great
michael barbaro
And brings course nowinfamous Moscow project
maggie haberman
Right
archived recording michael cohen
I lied Congress Mr Trump stopped negotiating Moscow tower project Russia I stated stopped negotiating January 2016 That false Our negotiations continued months later campaign
maggie haberman
He says know handful conversations went 2016 clear Donald Trump going Republican nominee
archived recording michael cohen
Mr Trump directly tell lie Congress Thats operates In conversations campaign time I actively negotiating Russia would look eye tell Theres Russian business go lie American people saying thing In way telling lie So clear Mr Trump knew directed Trump Moscow negotiations throughout campaign lied
michael barbaro
Cohens almost describing moment code Trump saying Russia project almost like saying theres Russia project right Youre never going say theres Russia project Its like hes trying explain foreign language Donald Trump communicating probably lie without say
maggie haberman
Thats exactly right And said testimony made clear Donald Trump talks He sort knows line doesnt speak overtly It former federal prosecutors described mob speak style mafia bosses speak avoid crossing legal line And Michael Cohen explicitly say part say Donald Trump spoke code Michael Cohen understood code
archived recording michael cohen
He doesnt give questions He doesnt give orders He speaks code And I understand code Ive around decade
michael barbaro
Maggie come surprise hear Michael Cohen saying Youve known men years And youve known unit What like hear Cohen saying things Donald Trump
maggie haberman
Even knowing coming mindblowing hearing Michael Cohen saying public No one worked Trump recent years gone record say things like And staggering And odds portrait fealty Michael Cohen presented reporters everyone toward Donald Trump decade
michael barbaro
Mmhmm
maggie haberman
And remember Donald Trump creates eagerness people around get something head pat get encouragement get attaboy Cohen got skilled trying attaboy
michael barbaro
And seemed kind addicted
maggie haberman
And seemed addicted seemed revel clearly reveled proximity
archived recording michael cohen
Over past year I done real soulsearching And I see ambition intoxication Trump power much bad decisions part I made
maggie haberman
He involved taking care messes Donald Trump wanted taken care He willing things One payoffs women And notion somebody closely involved would willing discuss publicly behind closed doors investigators prosecutors bearing freely public hearing oath breathtaking
michael barbaro
Theres moment Cohen says members committee
archived recording michael cohen
The last time I appeared Congress I came protect Mr Trump Today
michael barbaro
Today Im tell truth
archived recording michael cohen
I tell truth Mr Trump
michael barbaro
Mr Trump As say spell broken Im world And I kind wonder thats really possible also happened
maggie haberman
Well I think really possible I think break incredibly clean given happened Michael Cohen Remember FBI raided hotel apartment office April 2018 still standing Trump That clearly changed We saw Republicans argue reason changed Michael Cohen facing charges And president certainly suggested Cohen utterly stripped everything valued business law license He humiliated publicly He abandoned lot friends president presidents circle And I think certainly real split I think people going assess looking testimony whether think real conversion definitely real break
archived recording michael cohen
I perfect man I done things I proud And I live consequences actions rest life But today I get decide example I set children I attempt change history remember I may able change past I right American people today And I thank attention And Im happy answer committees questions
archived recording elijah cummings
Thank much Mr Cohen I recognize
michael barbaro
So questions begin committee members
maggie haberman
Right
archived recording elijah cummings
You said brought checks right
archived recording michael cohen
Yes sir
maggie haberman
And first Cummings asking Cohen elaborate details reimbursement checks got brought
archived recording elijah cummings
So let make sure I understand Donald Trump wrote check personal account serving president United States America reimburse hush money payments Ms Clifford telling American people today
archived recording michael cohen
Yes Mr Chairman
maggie haberman
And among dramatic moments saw Because Cummings getting fact sitting president part scheme minimum sleazy illicit maximum could criminal exposure And leaving nothing doubt Cohen saying took place
archived recording elijah cummings
Is doubt mind President Trump knew exactly paying
archived recording michael cohen
There doubt mind And I truly believe doubt minds people United States America
archived recording elijah cummings
With Ill yield
maggie haberman
Jim Jordan another ally president quoted something Michael Cohen said reporter The Daily Beast
archived recording jim jordan
I make sure I meet one day courthouse I take every penny still dont
maggie haberman
And become famous anecdote threatened reporter pursuing story old court claim divorce filing Ivana Trump Donald Trump alleged marital rape And Cohen said
archived recording jim jordan
And I come Daily Beast everybody else possibly know So Im warning
maggie haberman
So Im warning tread fing lightly wasnt fing
archived recording jim jordan
Because Im going going fing disgusting understand
maggie haberman
And asked Jim Jordan Mr Cohen said
archived recording jim jordan
Mr Cohen said
archived recording michael cohen
I
maggie haberman
And incident I think would say really Trump But way sully character create portrait thuggishness
archived recording jim jordan
And say Mr Cohen statement I read admitted saying protect Donald Trump
archived recording michael cohen
I protect Mr Trump Donald Trump Jr Ivanka Trump Eric Trump
michael barbaro
But I wonder look worse person person whose behalf done
maggie haberman
Right I understand Jim Jordan trying muddy Michael Cohen But I think people going look especially president takes Twitter suggests people ought looking Michael Cohens family I think people still going see looking worse Trump Michael Cohen Trumps lawyer
michael barbaro
So Republicans largely avoiding talking president costs hearing focusing sullying Cohens character reputation may actually sullying President Trumps
maggie haberman
Correct They essentially trying peel Cohen Trump And became clear efforts went throughout hearing impossible When somebody serve lawyer Donald Trump identified publicly 10 years cant take shot Cohen end ricochet onto Trump
archived recording
So weve established lie taxes lie banks convicted lying Congress It seems theres much wont lie stand gain
michael barbaro
And questions go
maggie haberman
So
archived recording
Everythings made lies past Im concerned lies today
maggie haberman
After became know
archived recording
But theres truth whatsoever
maggie haberman
one one line Republicans suggesting Michael Cohen
archived recording
Liar liar pants fire
maggie haberman
Really fame
archived recording
Is appearance today motivated desire remain spotlight personal benefit
archived recording michael cohen
No maam
maggie haberman
Or really money They asked
archived recording
Is book deal coming anything like
archived recording michael cohen
I book deal right
maggie haberman
One prospective book deals movie deals
archived recording
Isnt true tried sell book time President Trump entitled Trump Revolution From Tower White House Understanding Donald J Trump
archived recording michael cohen
Yes happened
maggie haberman
Or pitched book
michael barbaro
And say
maggie haberman
He said yes
archived recording michael cohen
I contacted many including television movie If want tell would like play Im happy write name
michael barbaro
And Democrats
archived recording elijah cummings
Mr Raskin
archived recording jamie raskin
Mr Cohen thank composure today Our colleagues upset lied Congress president Theyre upset youve stopped lying Congress president
maggie haberman
The Democrats tried keep really mostly Trump things Michael Cohen Trump
archived recording
And nothing Trump Organization ever done unless run President Donald Trump correct
archived recording michael cohen
Thats 100 percent certain
archived recording
OK
maggie haberman
He described really interesting described everybody solely devoted protecting brand reputation one man Donald Trump He said nothing happened company unless Donald Trump aware signed He argued Trump demanding exacting punishing boss He described entire effort maximizing goldplated version Donald Trump become familiar
archived recording
Theres recurring refrain testimony says yet I continued work But point changed What breaking point decided start telling truth
archived recording michael cohen
There several factors Helsinki Charlottesville
maggie haberman
He went litany moments said disgusted There presidents comments Charlottesville know various instance discourteous behavior president untoward behavior toward citizens
archived recording michael cohen
Watching daily destruction civility one another putting silly things like
archived recording
Oh thats silly
archived recording michael cohen
Really unbecoming Congress
maggie haberman
He clearly got angry And sort turned back Republicans said essentially
archived recording michael cohen
Its sort behavior Im responsible Im responsible silliness Because I thing youre 10 years I protected Mr Trump 10 years
maggie haberman
You I You blindly following And real risk could end like someday
archived recording michael cohen
And I warn people people follow Mr Trump I blindly going suffer consequences Im suffering
maggie haberman
It gripping captivating moment
michael barbaro
Right sort surprising level selfawareness I guess also selfloathing
maggie haberman
It It selfeffacing It clearly uncomfortable It acknowledging deeply imperfect person imperfect things proud said version earlier hearing But really striking comment Republicans opposed Donald Trump theyre many vocal anymore said repeatedly Republican Party become cult personality cult And people blindly follow along Donald Trump wants whether wise whether safe whether telling truth And Cohen getting
archived recording
What want children know
archived recording michael cohen
That Im sorry everything And Im sorry pain Ive caused And um I wish I could go back time
archived recording
Thank I yield back
archived recording elijah cummings
The gentleladys time expired
michael barbaro
Maggie I wonder feel like understand whats motivating Michael Cohen throughout hourslong hearing say hes saying concede hes conceding kind humble way Hes convicted crime Hes headed prison He disbarred What exactly animating point
maggie haberman
I think number things animating But I think among doesnt want leper story forever He said months ago want villain Trump story And I think thats feels I think want remembered footnote history I think hes going prison And I think doesnt whole lot left lose And I think would like try make people remember things tell nuanced tale
michael barbaro
And hearing mind achieve How hearing remembered larger story
maggie haberman
I think hearing either going breathtaking historical moment likes I dont know well ever see But pretty striking see Or going initial phases much broader deeper governmental investigation House Democrats Trump presidency personal activities activities government And allowing Michael Cohen setting talks things questioned key starting witness could first step paving way toward impeachment process Democrats go If ends leading something bigger Democrats feel key foundation But early say I think
archived recording michael cohen
I closing remarks I would like say Is appropriate time
archived recording elijah cummings
You
archived recording michael cohen
Thank
michael barbaro
Maggie one hearing finally come end
maggie haberman
Seven half hours Michael Cohen first entered room sitting pretty patiently questions losing temper given opportunity speak committee members president
archived recording michael cohen
In closing Id like say directly president honor veterans even rain You tell truth even doesnt aggrandize
maggie haberman
And used opportunity send message former boss saying dont need person
archived recording michael cohen
You take responsibility dirty deeds You dont use power bully pulpit destroy credibility speak You dont separate families one another demonize looking America better life You dont vilify people based God pray And dont cuddle adversaries expense allies
maggie haberman
And saying president I know saying members committee believe I say I understand man
archived recording michael cohen
So support president rhetoric I I pray country doesnt make mistakes I made pay heavy price family I paying And I thank much additional time Chairman
archived recording elijah cummings
Thank much
maggie haberman
And Michael Cohen done Elijah Cummings closed note grace toward Michael Cohen
archived recording elijah cummings
So wonder whether people believe I dont know I dont know whether believe But fact youve come head And got one hardest things could
maggie haberman
That moment Michael Cohen started crying And really hadnt done He clearly weeping
archived recording elijah cummings
I know face lot I know worried family But part destiny
maggie haberman
And Cummings basically told Cohen You heading toward light moment
archived recording elijah cummings
And hopefully portion destiny lead better better Michael Cohen better Donald Trump better United States America better world
michael barbaro
Maggie thank much We appreciate
maggie haberman
Michael thanks
archived recording elijah cummings
And got get back normal With meeting adjourned MUSIC PLAYING
michael barbaro
Well right back Heres else need know today On Wednesday Pakistan said shot two Indian fighter jets captured pilot one latest escalation hostilities two countries The attack heightening fears decadesold animosities India Pakistan could spiral war The latest episode began February 14th jihadis operating Pakistan killed 40 Indian soldiers prompting airstrikes India military response Pakistan
archived recording
NONENGLISH SPEECH Bomb blast victims INAUDIBLE
michael barbaro
In speech Wednesday prime minister Pakistan urged restraint citing two countries arsenals nuclear weapons saying quote All big wars due miscalculation My question India given weapons afford miscalculation
archived recording
NONENGLISH SPEECH
michael barbaro
And North Carolina Wednesday campaign operative center allegations election fraud McCrae Dallas arrested indicted handling absentee ballots 2016 2018 Dallas collected absentee ballots Republican congressional candidate Mark Harris last fall charged obstruction justice possession absentee ballots As result Dallas conduct North Carolina hold new election 9th congressional district Harris hired Dallas withdrawn race MUSIC PLAYING Thats The Daily Im Michael Barbaro See tomorrow
The president denied knowing meeting But Mr Cohen cast doubt saying Mr Trumps office one day June 2016 Donald Jr came went behind fathers desk speaking low voice said The meeting set The candidate said replied OK good Let know
Mr Cohen said might referred Russia meeting Mr Trump frequently told others son Don Jr worst judgment anyone world son would never set meeting significance alone certainly without checking father
Mr Cohen also recalled Mr Trumps office shortly Democratic National Convention 2016 Roger J Stone Jr longtime adviser called Mr Trump put speaker phone Mr Stone reported spoken Julian Assange founder WikiLeaks said within couple days would massive dump emails would damage Hillary Clintons campaign
In interview last month The New York Times Mr Trump denied speaking Mr Stone WikiLeaks emails Mr Assanges lawyer issued statement Wednesday disputing Mr Cohens account
The hearing left questions unanswered Democrats pledged press details Russia investigation Mr Cohen appears Thursday private interview House Intelligence Committee
Mr Cohen offered tantalizing hints come Asked last conversation Mr Trump said could answer investigated right federal prosecutors New York Asked knew wrongdoing crimes Mr Trump said Yes And part investigation
More generally Mr Cohen compared Mr Trump mobster inflated net worth public understating tax authorities rigged art auction using charitable foundation threatened got way
Mr Cohen estimated Mr Trump asked threaten someone perhaps 500 times 10 years berating nasty reporter warning lawsuits He provided letters wrote campaign Mr Trumps direction presidents high school colleges College Board threatening civil criminal action released grades SAT scores
Mr Trump run president make country great according Mr Cohen instead calling campaign greatest infomercial political history business He never expected win primary said He never expected win general election The campaign always marketing opportunity But Mr Cohen said fears Mr Trump loses reelection next year never peaceful transition power
The former lawyer also described racist comments Mr Trump asked could name country run black person wasnt shithole driving struggling neighborhood remarked AfricanAmericans could live way He told black people would never vote stupid Mr Cohen said
Except one Trump skeptic Republicans ask presidents conduct matter offer sustained defense Mr Trump Instead pressed argument Mr Cohen believed They argued lied even signing committee form disclose work bank Kazakhstan
Youre pathological liar charged Representative Paul Gosar Arizona
Are referring president Mr Cohen retorted
Mr Cohen suggested Republicans falling trap trading honor president deserve
I thing youre 10 years said I protected Mr Trump 10 years
Kenneth P Vogel contributed reporting
Follow Peter Baker Nicholas Fandos Twitter peterbakernyt npfandos



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Russ Buettner Susanne Craig
In 2013 months Donald J Trump approached Deutsche Bank seeking loan buy Buffalo Bills mysterious new asset appeared financial statement
It wasnt new hotel office tower golf resort It brand value 4 billion Mr Trumps account
The Deutsche Bank episode along Mr Trumps stunning claim newfound wealth emerged Wednesday former personal lawyer Michael D Cohen testified House Oversight Committee Mr Cohen provided three years financial statements I believe numbers inflated commented dryly
Without ever saying Mr Cohen tracing lifelong mythmaking practice Mr Trump ultimately rode White House magically inflating value business empire create nurture brand Donald J Trump selfmade billionaire
That mythmaking began young man Mr Trump falsely claimed real estate empire still owned father legendary builder Fred C Trump It continued flashy opening sequence The Apprentice campaign trail 2015
The first public record Mr Trumps financial exaggerations came 1976 Mr Trump years college boasted Times reporter already worth 200 million
To support fantastical assertion Mr Trump laid claim various buildings projects throughout New York City area In truth father owned
Years later emerged public filing 1976 taxable income 24594
In 1980s instead appropriating fathers wealth quick diminish fathers considerable achievements He consistently cast Fred Trump behindthescenes cheerleader ran modest collection outerborough apartment buildings Mr Trump never mentioned fathers considerable wealth financial support made gilded life possible He claimed gotten 1 million loan father repaid interest
He solid guy bright guy I learned lot father In terms support No 1 thing I got father told latenight host David Letterman 1987 oddly referring father die 1999 past tense
Last year New York Times investigation found contrary claims 1 million loan Mr Trump received parents equivalent today least 413 million That figure increased legally dubious tax schemes relied reverse manipulation lowballing assets tax man came calling A lawyer Mr Trump said applicable laws followed
For years Mr Trump provided unaudited financial statements evidence wealth reporters banks seeking loans The deal Bills never came pass In 2007 deposition said values could even fluctuate based feelings compared real estate valuations political spin
Im different politician running office said You always want put best foot forward
The documents Mr Cohen presented Congress show dollar amounts bounce around Mr Trumps eclectic signature In 2013 statement example cash marketable securities category doubled 346 million year even note claimed Mr Trump paid number liabilities That year claimed net worth climbed 866 billion 5 billion year
Mr Cohen said often presented financial statements journalists publications like Forbes get Mr Trump lists wealthiest Americans
Last year Jonathan Greenberg former reporter Forbes recounted The Washington Post back 1980s long Mr Cohen entered picture Mr Trump called pretending John Barron supposed spokesman Donald Trump get magazines list richest Americans
Behind scenes though came time pay taxes Mr Trump instrumental depressing value familys assets
In 1995 instance Donald Trump three siblings claimed confidential tax documents obtained The Times properties owned father including 25 apartment complexes worth 414 million They claimed two rental buildings Trump Village Coney Island worth negative 59 million The maneuver spared family paying millions dollars gift estate taxes The actual value properties revealed 2004 banks valued almost 900 million
Tax experts told The Times types maneuvers legally questionable
Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez New York Democrat asked Mr Cohen tax schemes described Times investigation hearing Wednesday Mr Cohen responded actions took place arrived Trump Organization
Republicans members House Oversight Reform Committee along White House repeatedly sought discredit Mr Cohen Wednesday pointing pleading guilty financial crimes lying Congress
Mr Trumps true wealth entanglements would far better understood followed decadesold tradition presidential candidates releasing tax returns
Mr Cohen asked address veracity Mr Trumps claim could release returns audit Mr Cohen said opposite true Mr Trump concerned releasing returns would lead audit possible penalties
What didnt want entire group think tanks tax experts run tax return start ripping pieces hell end audit Mr Cohen said




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos
WASHINGTON The Florida Bar said Wednesday opened investigation determine whether Representative Matt Gaetz Republican state violated conduct rules threatened reveal said extramarital affairs pending congressional witness Michael D Cohen
Mr Gaetzs threat came Twitter Tuesday afternoon Mr Cohen President Trumps former lawyer longtime fixer preparing explosive public remarks House Oversight Reform Committee ultimately implicated former boss federal crimes unsavory acts Mr Gaetz 36 one Mr Trumps outspoken allies Capitol Hill public statements frequently solicited criticism Democrats
Hey MichaelCohen212 Do wife fatherinlaw know girlfriends Maybe tonight would good time chat I wonder shell remain faithful youre prison Shes learn lot Mr Gaetz wrote tweet deleted apologized
Democrats said Mr Gaetzs remarks might amount witness intimidation several lawmakers called comments investigated House Ethics Committee Francine Andía Walker spokeswoman Florida Bar said Wednesday organization opened investigation learning comments could offer details The Florida Bar licenses lawyers practice state
Any time words actions Florida lawyer result complaints Florida Bar fully investigate complaints established grievance process determine bar rules violated said It handles thousands complaints year filing charges pursuing discipline lawyers whose professional conduct keeping rules
Mr Gaetz said Tuesday merely raising questions veracity character congressional witness trying intimidate
On Wednesday said text message contacted Florida Bar signaled concerned
It seems Florida Bar rules required investigate even frivolous complaints said
As member Congress Mr Gaetz protected Constitutions speech debate clause gives lawmakers wide latitude speak Congress session It cited frequently past protection punishment
Under federal law crime threaten intimidate individual influence delay otherwise prevent person testifying official proceedings including congressional hearing But clear whether remark like Mr Gaetzs made ambiguously social media would qualify Nor clear whether congressional speech debate protections would give legal cover
Mr Gaetz deleted tweet late Tuesday Speaker Nancy Pelosi California warned comments like could harm Oversight Committees ability obtain truthful complete information necessary
I chosen words better showed intent wrote replying Ms Pelosi Im sorry
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Peter Baker Maggie Haberman
WASHINGTON On busy day White House President Trump hosted senators talk tax cuts accused Democratic congresswoman distorting condolence call soldiers widow suffered another court defeat travel ban targeting Muslim countries
And point Wednesday Oct 18 2017 Mr Trump took time sign 35000 check lawyer made hush payments prevent alleged sexual misconduct exposed 2016 presidential election It one 11 occasions Mr Trump trust cut checks six provided week The New York Times
At heart last weeks congressional testimony Michael D Cohen Mr Trumps former lawyer sensational accusation sitting president United States financed illegal coverup inside White House The dates newly available checks shed light parallel lives Mr Trump living account managing affairs state quietly paying price keeping personal secrets public eye
The president hosted foreign leader Oval Office wrote check He haggled legislation wrote check He traveled abroad wrote check On day reportedly pressured FBI director drop investigation former aide presidents trust issued check Mr Cohen furtherance federal prosecutors called criminal scheme violate campaign finance laws direction Mr Trump
The White House Tuesday referred questions payments Mr Trumps private lawyers Jay Sekulow one presidents personal lawyers comment lawyer Trump Organization declined discuss matter
Other defenders president said checks proved Mr Trump paid personal lawyer necessarily knew money meant reimburse Mr Cohen hush payments Stormy Daniels pornographic film actress claimed extramarital affair Mr Trump The president denied affair
I think news knew Representative Jim Jordan Ohio ranking Republican House Oversight Reform Committee one presidents staunchest allies told reporters break last weeks hearing The payments said could services based retainer although Mr Cohen said retainer
The presidents critics said checks mostly Mr Trumps distinctive upanddown signature fact bolster prosecutors conclusion involvement scheme Mr Cohen pleaded guilty violating campaign finance laws well lying Congress faces three years prison starting spring
The 35000 indication quality evidence shows extent Trumps leading role leaves little doubt faces criminal prosecution leaves office offenses Cohen serve time said Robert F Bauer law professor New York University former White House counsel President Barack Obama
Indeed people close Mr Trump privately predicted ultimately choose seek second term part legal exposure president While legal consensus matter Justice Department policy says president indicted office
The checks Mr Cohen sent less monthly basis throughout 2017 Mr Trumps first year office Mr Cohen provided two checks House committee last week lawyer Lanny J Davis provided additional six checks The Times week Mr Cohens team said searching three others
Of eight checks available seven 35000 another 70000 cover two months worth payments Six signed Mr Trump president two signed eldest son Donald Trump Jr companys chief financial officer Allen Weisselberg
Altogether Mr Trump trust paid Mr Cohen 420000 according federal prosecutors Of 130000 reimburse payments made shortly 2016 election Ms Daniels whose legal name Stephanie Clifford would tell story Another 50000 Mr Cohens effort manipulate online polls inflate Mr Trumps reputation businessman
That 180000 grossed another 180000 offset taxes Mr Cohen would pay original money since treated income Another 60000 added bonus prosecutors said
Mr Trump offered conflicting accounts matter Speaking reporters Air Force One April 2018 said know payment Ms Daniels But month later lawyer Rudolph W Giuliani hoping refute suggestion might campaign finance violation told Fox News The Times president fact reimbursed Mr Cohen payment
Citing Mr Cohen evidence prosecutors Southern District New York said court papers Mr Trump directed scheme essentially making unindicted coconspirator
Were talking felony committed president United States theres dispute said Mr Davis lawyer Mr Cohen
People close Mr Trump suggested may aware Mr Cohen real time despite audiotape Mr Cohen recorded discussing Mr Trump payments The National Enquirer made second woman claimed affair candidate
A person close Mr Trump said may believed checks payment general legal fees may known The presidents associates stressed payment Mr Cohen one several made privately month
Mr Davis scoffed You denied Stormy Daniels affair lie said Now youre denying knew payoff reimbursement Giuliani says knew So claim ignorance doesnt credibility
One person without question involved according multiple people briefed events Mr Weisselberg Trump Organization chief financial officer Mr Cohen told Mr Weisselberg 130000 wire transfer Ms Daniels Mr Weisselberg suggested repaying installments told Mr Cohen send invoices month according people
By Mr Cohens account checks began February 2017 weeks Mr Trump inaugurated president When Mr Cohen visited Oval Office first time said Mr Trump raised issue hush payments room symbolized United States seat power
Dont worry Michael January February reimbursement checks coming quoted Mr Trump telling They FedExed New York takes get White House system
The first check signed Feb 14 2017 70000 cover January February It issued presidents trust signed Mr Weisselberg Donald Trump Jr
The payment came fraught moment presidents early weeks day forced national security adviser Michael T Flynn resign lying contacts Russia On day check Mr Cohen signed Mr Trump pulled aside James B Comey FBI director suggested letting Flynn go according contemporaneous memo Mr Comey
The next check 35000 came trust March 17 even president hosted Chancellor Angela Merkel Germany Oval Office aides grappling firestorm unfounded assertions aired White House British spied Mr Trump candidate
A check April located Mr Cohens records seized federal agents But initial payments Mr Trump instructed write Mr Cohen checks personal checking account instead trust It clear told removed sons name future checks
On May 23 president signed personal check day overseas meeting Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu Israel Jerusalem President Mahmoud Abbas Palestinian Authority Bethlehem flying night Rome
Checks June July also located The next one Aug 1 came Mr Trump invited small business owners White House aide confirmed president dictated misleading statement 2016 meeting campaign team held Russians
On Sept 12 Mr Trump hosted prime minister Malaysia even press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders telling reporters Justice Department certainly look prosecuting Mr Comey Mr Trump signed another 35000 check day
After Oct 18 check came one Nov 21 two days Thanksgiving Mr Trump pardoned turkey saying I feel good defended Roy S Moore Republican Senate candidate Alabama accused sexual misconduct teenage girls Mr Trump also spoke telephone day President Vladimir V Putin Russia
The last check made public signed Dec 5 day Mr Trump called Mr Netanyahu Mr Abbas Arab leaders tell decided move American Embassy Jerusalem
Four months later FBI agents raided Mr Cohens office home
Follow Peter Baker Maggie Haberman Twitter peterbakernyt maggienyt

video

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Robert Pear
WASHINGTON Federal health officials enforcing requirements Medicaid coverage abortion limited circumstances legal congressional investigators found
At least 13 states flouting requirement cover abortioninducing pills one state South Dakota 25 years failed provide required coverage abortion cases rape incest Government Accountability Office nonpartisan investigative arm Congress said report made public month
The report underlines wide range restrictions states impose abortion access Medicaid coverage
Trump administration officials like many predecessors taken actions address states noncompliance report said
The federal law known Hyde Amendment generally prohibits federal funding abortions But state Medicaid programs required cover abortion pregnancy result rape incest life pregnant woman would endangered without abortion
States also supposed cover pill induces abortion Mifeprex abortion available Medicaid But survey Government Accountability Office 13 states said cover drug
Without coverage report said Medicaid beneficiaries seeking abortions states would find another way pay drug undergo surgical abortion instead
Federal officials Centers Medicare Medicaid Services aware states cover Mifeprex thus agency sought address states noncompliance report said
The drug also known RU486 approved use first 10 weeks pregnancy usually taken combination another medicine
The number abortions United States declined last 30 years report said medication abortions involve use prescription drugs rather surgical procedure increased may account onethird abortions
Representative Diana DeGette Democrat Colorado requested investigation expressed dismay findings
States supposed covering limited number abortions Medicaid even Ms DeGette said A poor woman raped raped relative whose life might endangered carrying pregnancy afford go another state get services Thats Medicaid covering services like
South Dakota told Government Accountability Office cover abortions cases rape incest Federal health officials sent letter South Dakota 1994 observing Medicaid coverage comply federal law
The federal Centers Medicare Medicaid Services aware South Dakota cover abortions cases rape incest required federal law taken action 25 years ensure states compliance report said
As result said Medicaid beneficiaries South Dakota Medicaid coverage abortions cases rape incest
The findings lead paradoxical conclusion The Trump administration firmly opposed abortion may work states make sure provide Medicaid coverage surgical procedure abortion pill certain circumstances
After seeing draft report Trump administration said would urge states comply must operate Medicaid programs accordance federal laws guidance Neither South Dakota 13 states compliance federal requirements administration said
Representative Frank Pallone Jr Democrat New Jersey chairman Energy Commerce Committee responsible Medicaid said administrations response woefully inadequate He asked top federal Medicaid official Seema Verma explain steps taking bring states compliance
Federal law explicitly require Medicaid coverage prescription drugs used terminate pregnancy But states generally required cover drugs companies agree give deep discounts Medicaid drug rebate program manufacturer Mifeprex Danco Laboratories among companies So states supposed cover drug used abortions eligible federal funding Hyde Amendment
The report Government Accountability Office found 28 states cover abortions federal government help pay Other states use funds provide broader coverage
In 14 states women must report rape incest police another government agency Medicaid cover abortion terminate resulting pregnancy
Federal officials know many women receiving abortions Medicaid program Most Medicaid beneficiaries managed care plans states regularly collect information many abortions receive States supposed report abortions traditional feeforservice Medicaid program reports often inaccurate Government Accountability Office said
In survey office identified nearly 5000 abortions states claimed federal funds 2013 2016 nearly 10 times number reported Congress federal Medicaid agency And even higher number incomplete report said states unable provide information number Medicaid abortions



Advertisement












Paul Manaforts Trail Scandals
My Dead Dads Porno Tapes
Ten Meter Tower
Between Sound Silence
Coal Miner Trump Coal Mining Isnt Coming Back
House Tour Cary Leibowitz
Sanctuary City Hotline
2011 Arab Spring
Can The President Be Impeached We Answer Your Questions
Calving Season
Advertisement
Supported
letters
Readers discuss dramatic hearing Mr Cohen expressed regret actions behalf president harshly attacked Republicans
To Editor
Re Cohen Says President Told Him Lie About Hush Money Payments nytimescom Feb 27
Whether believe Michael Cohen say testimony deserve opportunity simple opportunity hear testimony Instead GOP members House Oversight Reform Committee constantly ceding time Representative Jim Jordan bulldog harasses intimidates Mr Cohen instead spending valuable time letting American public hear questions answers
In court law witnesses harassed either side These lawmakers might well keep mind
Connie SchiedPortland Ore
To Editor
Republicans Congress appear skeptical Michael Cohens testimony oh gosh hes lied past Perhaps tell us current former Trump administration campaign officials including president would believe
Stephen PolitBelmont Mass
To Editor
How times changed Two years ago Michael Cohen reviled liar Donald Trump minion believed Now Congress places Mr Cohen convicted felon pedestal credible witness
Andrew KoSan Marino Calif
To Editor
What learned hearings far That President Trump may lost fixer Michael Cohen many fixers among GOP members Congress
Elaine L ShuteSurry Me
To Editor
Sarah Huckabee Sanders White House press secretary called laughable anyone would believe Michael Cohen convicted liar But Mr Cohen wasnt convicted lie falsely testified Congress President Trump stopped negotiating Russians January 2016 building Trump Tower Moscow That claim president made throughout campaign repeated day Mr Cohen confessed wasnt true
It Mr Cohen Mr Trump first came clean lie And Mr Trump Mr Cohen benefited
In short lie means Mr Cohen believed affects presidents credibility even
Robert HelfandSimsbury Conn
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Fact Check Day
In questioning Michael Cohen President Trumps former lawyer members House Oversight Reform Committee made incorrect misleading statements
By Linda Qiu
What Was Said
This might first time someone convicted lying Congress appeared quickly front Congress
Representative Jim Jordan Republican Ohio
This carefully worded statement true could give misleading impression There little precedent someone convicted specific crime lying Congress appear Congress shortly afterward But people found lied Congress returned body testify lawmakers occasionally hear convicted criminals
Very people six 1940s 2000s according one estimate convicted lying Congress Others indicted acquitted example Roger Clemens baseball pitcher received presidential pardons like officials Reagan administration involved Irancontra affair
Among small group least two testified Congress charged Elliott Abrams former assistant secretary state President Ronald Reagan current envoy Venezuela President Trump pleaded guilty 1991 withholding information Congress testified Congress month Robert McFarlane Mr Reagans national security adviser also pleaded guilty 1988 withholding information Congress testified Senate 2002 Both men pardoned President George Bush
Other people committed crimes lying Congress testified body include Frank Costello mafia boss 1951 Joseph Michael Valachi mobster 1963 Frank Abagnale former con artist subject Steven Spielbergs Catch Me If You Can 2017
What Was Said
Remember started The Clinton campaign hired Perkins Coie law firm hired Glenn Simpson hired foreigner Christopher Steele put together fake dossier FBI used get warrant spy Trump campaign
Mr Jordan
Mr Jordan echoed falsehood often repeated Mr Trump investigation campaigns possible links Russian election interference prompted salacious dossier compiled Christopher Steele former British spy
In fact investigation began July 2016 The New York Times reported Republicans held majority vote last year House Intelligence Committee concluded George Papadopoulos foreign policy adviser Mr Trump told Australian diplomat May 2016 Russians dirt Hillary Clinton Australian officials alerted American counterparts
The information provided Mr Steele reach FBI officials investigating Mr Trumps campaign midSeptember 2016 The New York Times reported May
What Was Said
How Mr Papadopoulos pled guilty Mr Manafort convicted pled guilty two charges Mr Gates pled guilty Mr Flynn pled guilty Mr Pinedo pled guilty Mr van der Zwaan pled guilty Mr Kilimnik indicted charge obstruction justice two years want talk agenda friends side aisle refuse bring people committee
Representative Stephen F Lynch Democrat Massachusetts
Mr Lynch correct none Trump associates listed Paul Manafort Rick Gates Michael T Flynn among publicly testified House Oversight Reform Committee Republican control one appear committee closeddoor session Mr Papadopoulos gave private testimony House Oversight Reform Committee well House Judiciary Committee October
Curious accuracy claim Email factchecknytimescom
Linda Qiu factcheck reporter based Washington She came The Times 2017 factchecking service PolitiFact ylindaqiu
Advertisement












Paul Manaforts Trail Scandals
My Dead Dads Porno Tapes
Ten Meter Tower
Between Sound Silence
Coal Miner Trump Coal Mining Isnt Coming Back
House Tour Cary Leibowitz
Sanctuary City Hotline
2011 Arab Spring
Can The President Be Impeached We Answer Your Questions
Calving Season
Advertisement
Supported
By Rebecca R Ruiz
President Trumps former lawyer told Congress Wednesday Mr Trump remained deeply involved arrangement pay hush money pornographic film actress even White House telling year ago lie journalist presidents involvement
Testifying House Oversight Committee lawyer Michael D Cohen also first time publicly implicated presidents eldest son Donald Jr chief financial officer company Allen Weisselberg arrangement involving actress Stormy Daniels She paid 130000 2016 election keep quiet alleged affair Mr Trump Mr Cohen reimbursed 2017 fronting money
He knew everything Mr Cohen said Mr Trump Everything go Mr Trump approved Mr Trump
While federal prosecutors New York laid general narrative around payments including Mr Trumps involvement Mr Cohen explicitly placed Mr Trump center events producing checks described evidence role president company played
Mr Cohen pleaded guilty last summer campaign finance crimes relating payments made Ms Daniels second woman Karen McDougal also said affair Mr Trump He scheduled begin serving threeyear prison sentence May crimes including lying Congress earlier testimony
Republican members committee Wednesday repeatedly challenged Mr Cohens remarks untrustworthy even Mr Cohen sworn president posted Twitter lying order reduce prison time The Trump campaign also released statement impugning Mr Cohens credibility
But testimony punctuated flashes anger regret Mr Cohen said seen errors ways determined serve positive role model children Insisting speaking truth offered first upclose description involved president remained concealing details payments even winning election
He described meeting president February 2017 Mr Trump said two checks written Mr Cohen reimbursement 130000 gotten caught White House mail
Im visiting President Trump Oval Office first time truly aweinspiring Mr Cohen said Hes showing around pointing different paintings And says something effect Dont worry Michael January February reimbursement checks coming
Last year Mr Cohen said president contacted The Wall Street Journal first reported payment Ms Daniels
Mr Cohen said Mr Trump Mr Weisselberg discussed coordinating statement rebutted report asserted Mr Cohen paid Ms Daniels He also described receiving phone call month Mr Trump interview Vanity Fair Mr Cohen said president directed tell reporter Mr Trump knowledge dealings Ms Daniels
Separately Mr Cohen said one greatest misgivings surrounding hush money involved first lady Melania Trump Mr Cohen said Mr Trump told lie Ms Trump payment
He asked pay adult film star affair lie wife I said opening remarks Lying first lady one biggest regrets
Mr Cohen worked decade Trump family business also offered clearest suggestion yet Mr Weisselberg stalwart company key figure behind effort conceal hush money The executive focus several months investigation federal prosecutors New York according people briefed matter
Mr Cohen suggested president Mr Weisselberg mindful political legal tightrope walking He described meeting attended Mr Trump Mr Weisselberg Mr Trump ordered payment After meeting Mr Cohen said Mr Weisselberg debated best way pay Ms Daniels decided disguise reimbursement Mr Trump Mr Cohen breaking monthly installments
I asked Allen use money I didnt want use mine said couldnt Mr Cohen testified He asked I knew anybody wanted party one clubs said suggesting event could provided alternate justification forwarding funds I didnt
Mr Cohen paid money 2017 filed sham invoices Trump Organization according prosecutors
On Wednesday Mr Cohen produced two checks said among 11 installments reimburse One check dated March 17 2017 bore signatures Donald Jr Mr Weisselberg The dated Aug 1 2017 presidents
Wednesdays congressional hearing focusing part much Trump knew hush money payments proposed Trump Tower Moscow
Asked Ms Daniels received sum 130000 Mr Cohen said amount requested Without payment said worried story going go TV
Mr Cohen long aware Ms Daniels alleged affair In 2011 made legal threats promised detail allegations gossip website TheDirtycom
It wire Mr Cohen told lawmakers Wednesday explaining initially paid pocket
A lawyer Mr Weisselberg declined comment Mr Weisselberg testified grand jury last year prosecutors building case Mr Cohen granted immunity prosecution related testimony
In response questions lawmakers Wednesday Mr Cohen also mentioned Mr Weisselberg someone would know possible irregularities Mr Trumps company The New York Times reported Friday Mr Cohen met last month federal prosecutors Manhattan offering information possible issues involving insurance claims reported last year Mr Trump engaged suspect tax schemes accumulating wealth
Mr Cohen also involved hush money payment Ms McDougal former Playboy model received 125000 American Media Inc publisher The National Enquirer Mr Cohen said Mr Trump known shopping story around summer 2016 intended reimburse tabloid company paid keep quiet
He supposed pay Mr Cohen said president He supposed pay 125000 life story Karen McDougal For whatever reason elected pay David Pecker angry said referring AMIs chief executive
Prosecutors said last summer Mr Cohen promised reimburse AMI money paid Ms McDougal In October 2016 said Mr Pecker instructed Mr Cohen tear document relating Ms McDougals contract He document among seized raid office last spring
OpinionNoah Bookbinder


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Sheryl Gay Stolberg
WASHINGTON As child former sharecroppers Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland stranger blunt conversations race But fiery freshman Democrat practically accused conservative Republican racism Wednesday uneasy truce Mr Cummings brokered put center raw debate race gender changing House
The heated exchange came end Wednesdays explosive House Oversight Committee hearing featuring Michael D Cohen After Representative Mark Meadows Republican North Carolina brought black political appointee President Trumps effort prove Mr Trump racist Representative Rashida Tlaib Democrat Michigan called racist actually use prop black woman chamber committee
Mr Meadows redfaced near tears demanded Ms Tlaibs words taken struck record violation House rules Mr Cummings asked Ms Tlaib explain She apologized Then questions began
Whose emotions put first said Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez New York close ally Ms Tlaibs oversight panel witnessed encounter We apologize getting hurt feelings saying calling racist practice Ms Tlaib also hurt apology furnished
The Root website focuses race went Cummings handling Tlaib yesterday part larger problem Democratic Party new class women color Democrats want women color Congress cant seem handle truthtelling wrote Terrell Jermaine Starr He added He messed needs apologize Tlaib nonetheless publicly Otherwise Republicans take Meadows cue cry river white tears time woman color dares call racism
The episode underscored Mr Cummings wants run committee On Thursday many colleagues including Ms OcasioCortez came defense saying handled difficult situation well preventing important historic hearing going rails
But outside Capitol reviews less kind Critics furious Mr Cummings called Mr Meadows one best friends resurfaced several 2012 campaign videos showing Mr Meadows saying intended send President Barack Obama home Kenya wherever
Beyond contretemps Cohen hearing served shine national spotlight new generation outspoken young Democrats many women color forcing pointed conversations race abandoning unwritten protocols decorum way elders often agree
You bear witness bear witness truth said Representative John Lewis Democrat Georgia civil rights icon applauded young women color getting likes call good trouble necessary trouble
This body going continue change people diverse background come Mr Lewis said America changing We need get board
But generational divide could emerging especially AfricanAmerican elders House decades I think certainly bring different perspective ways said Representative Danny K Davis Democrat Illinois I think wording sometimes little different The level might called professional civility may little different I think individuals expressing many ways feelings saying things
For House Republican Conference 90 percent white male uncomfortable moments inevitable Mr Meadows called birther videos old news Thursday said previously apologized He also appeared reconcile Ms Tlaib two shared hug seemingly cordial talk House floor
She said didnt mean yesterday need apologize told reporters afterward I wanted know wanted know relationship one hopefully provide real good results going forward
Mr Meadows Ms Tlaib political cultural opposites Mr Meadows 59 welltodo real estate developer chairman House Freedom Caucus one Mr Trumps ardent defenders Capitol Hill
Ms Tlaib 42 made headlines first day office captured video using expletive describe Mr Trump spoke desire impeach A lawyer social justice advocate Detroit daughter Palestinian immigrants one first two Muslim women Congress
She respond request interview Thursday Mr Cummings brushed aside questions Im going talk said I think able resolve I think ended civility
Congress course grappling issues race existence certainly debates civil rights era pointed passionate But rise Mr Trump referred former black aide Omarosa Manigault Newman dog declared fine people sides white supremacists march 2017 Charlottesville Va made Washingtons conversation race deeply personal Ms Tlaib lawmakers color
As representatives communities margins president defines vision America I think bring urgency emotional depth rhetoric academic said Representative Ro Khanna Democrat California also present TlaibMeadows exchange Its lived experience
Alexandra Rojas executive director Justice Democrats liberal organization helped elect Ms Tlaib Ms OcasioCortez described Ms Tlaib one new generation Democrats going puncture silence even uncomfortable
Mr Meadows anticipated Mr Cohen Mr Trumps former personal lawyer would describe president racist asked Trump appointee Lynne Patton Department Housing Urban Development attend When turn speak asked rise spoke saying disagreed Mr Cohen way would work individual racist
Ms Tlaib incredulous The fact someone would actually use prop black woman chamber committee alone racist
Another Michigan Democrat Representative Brenda Lawrence AfricanAmerican said totally insulting Mr Meadows prop one member entire race
Representative Ayanna S Pressley freshman Democrat Massachusetts black asked Mr Cohen whether possible Mr Trump black friend still racist replied Yes
In fact Democrats call Mr Meadows women color Men color committee Mr Khanna Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi Illinois held tongues
While Mr Cummings may wanted put matter rest exchange reverberating inside outside Capitol
I think handled way made sense committee moment said Adrianne Shropshire executive director Black PAC mobilizes black voters He chair committee part role facilitate mediate members
Ms OcasioCortez agreed saying felt Mr Cummings correct procedure trying everything power protect Ms Tlaib reprimanded But added women color often face disparate treatment work
At end day Ms OcasioCortez said one person got apology one person didnt two people hurt
Emily Cochrane contributed reporting

video
OpinionKashana Cauley

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Katie Rogers
WASHINGTON The Government Accountability Office set 2017 calculate total cost taxpayers President Trumps trips MaraLago resort Palm Beach Fla said report issued Tuesday could come snapshot expenses Trump administration respond requests information
The agency ended studying four trips president took onemonth period 2017 found government agencies including Defense Department Secret Service spent 136 million average 3 million trip transport protect president bulk expenses going cover cost military aircraft boats time
The tab officials say likely higher since total expenses administration members racked traveling dining staying resort known four trips much less 218 days presidency Mr Trump spent one properties Of total 78 days spent MaraLago
The GAO officials compiled report said White House respond three separate requests information might help flesh travel costs Secret Service Defense Department submitted regular accounting expenses Congress required Presidential Protection Assistance Act 1976
As result GAO studied trips Mr Trump took Feb 3 March 5 2017 hoping piece together costs On one trips example president hosted Shinzo Abe prime minister Japan MaraLago At time White House official said president paid Mr Abe wifes trip Florida gift
Without White Houses cooperation details Mr Trumps personal expenditures related trip could included report You could assume total cost 136 million Brian Lepore G AOs director defense capabilities management said interview White Houses lack response Plus something else
Mr Lepore emphasized several agencies including Defense Department Secret Service Coast Guard able furnish details Defense Department Secret Service agreed deliver detailed reports Congress future In case Defense Department report found process place reporting expenditures
The White House respond request comment supply information report
Mr Lepore said Obama White House underwent similar review trips President Barack Obama took Chicago West Palm Beach 2013 met GAO officials ultimately declined release information The Clinton White House faced review 1999 furnished cost information President Bill Clintons international trips Africa Chile China
Wed certainly want know cost lodging meals incidental expenses incurred staff members trips MaraLago Mr Lepore said
Noah Bookbinder executive director ethics watchdog CREW said report raised significant issues particularly since found 60000 pumped back MaraLago time period
When president travels visit properties promoting businesses offering extensive free publicity well cases providing access perks paying customers Mr Bookbinder said Of course money paid directly presidential property like MaraLago conflictofinterest concerns intensify
The Democratic lawmakers requested report also asked officials examine costs protecting two presidents sons Eric Donald Trump Jr three international trips taken early 2017 The report found younger Trumps flew commercial aircraft cost Secret Service 396000 mostly temporary duty costs protect trips Uruguay Dominican Republic United Arab Emirates
The Secret Service respond request comment responsible protecting presidents adult children unless decline protections Donald Trump Jr done past
The Democrats requested report including Senators Dianne Feinstein California Gary Peters Michigan Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland said alarmed findings
This part troubling pattern wasteful spending serious abuse tax dollars administration said statement We keep investigating issue ensure taxpayer dollars used effectively appropriately
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Maggie Haberman
President Trump claimed Friday former personal lawyer fixer Michael D Cohen directly asked pardon sharp escalation fight veracity Mr Cohens testimony last week House Oversight Reform Committee
Mr Trump made claim Twitter referring Mr Cohens testimony Congress Mr Cohen said president lied public business interests Russia lied reporters stolen Democratic emails told Mr Cohen lie hush payments cover sexual misconduct
Bad lawyer fraudster Michael Cohen said sworn testimony never asked Pardon His lawyers totally contradicted He lied Additionally directly asked pardon I said NO He lied He also badly wanted work White House He lied
Mr Cohen quickly responded tweet calling Mr Trumps assertions lies
Just another set lies POTUS realdonaldtrump Mr Presidentlet remind today InternationalWomensDay You may want use today apologize lies DirtyDeeds women like Karen McDougal Stephanie Clifford
Mr Cohen referring two women claimed affairs president paid keep quiet 2016 presidential campaign
The exchange latest example potential pardons whether hinted Mr Trump team sought people caught investigations swirling around become public flash point
The question whether Mr Cohen sought pardon subject contention since testimony last week said oath never sought one
His current lawyer Lanny J Davis acknowledged week Mr Cohens previous lawyer inquired pardon soon FBI searched Mr Cohens home office April 2018 But Mr Davis said inquiry came presidents team dangled possibility one implicit statements
Mr Cohen told associates signals Mr Trump pardon date back year soon Mr Cohen publicly disclosed making said time unreimbursed payments pocket 2016 Stormy Daniels pornographic film star claimed affair president decade earlier
Mr Cohen told associates last March office homes raided dinner Mr Trump president talked phone raids April After conversations Mr Cohen told associates anticipated would given pardon form protection would remain silent reimbursed Mr Trump making payments according people told discussions
Mr Cohen Mr Trump part formal agreement lawyers worked together review documents FBI seized determine could declared limits law enforcement officials attorneyclient privilege But joint effort ended July 2018 Mr Trumps aides balked paying parts Mr Cohens legal bills
The exchange two men Friday highlighted stakes establishing whether Mr Cohen credible accusations made president congressional testimony providing information federal prosecutors Republicans Mr Trumps allies noted testimony said never sought pardon At time Mr Trump often said things true including statements related knowledge payments Ms Daniels
The questions credibility Mr Cohens public testimony stands contrast prosecutors working described A memo federal court judge overseeing Mr Cohens case Manhattan office special counsel Robert S Mueller III said Mr Cohen truthful provided useful information connection work Federal prosecutors Manhattan questioning timing motivation Mr Cohens help also used information provided able corroborate
The volleys two men Friday also highlighted continued questions Mr Trumps pardon power might use Mr Mueller wraps investigation federal prosecutors Democrats Congress intensify expand scope presidents business career
The New York Times reported March 2018 Mr Trumps previous lead lawyer John Dowd raised possibility pardons lawyers Paul Manafort presidents former campaign chairman Michael T Flynn former national security adviser charged cases brought Mr Muellers team
Mr Trump asked Friday possibility pardon Mr Manafort Mr Manafort sentenced 47 months prison Thursday one two cases brought Mr Muellers prosecutors
I havent discussed Mr Trump said referring pardon Mr Manafort
Speaking reporters outside White House leaving trip Alabama Florida Mr Trump elaborated comments said Mr Cohens discussions pardon
It stonecold lie Mr Trump said Mr Cohens claims never sought pardon And hes lied lot things lied pardon really lie
Mr Trump continued His lawyers said went lawyers asked pardons And I go step I wont
Mr Trumps current lead lawyer Rudolph W Giuliani said president focusing pardons right would appropriate also left open possibility president might invoke power road



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Sarah Maslin Nir
What need know start day Get New York Today inbox
In testimony Congress week Michael Cohen cast central figure schemes could threaten presidency Donald J Trump
But Mr Cohen said didnt work alone unexpectedly mentioning name involvement another member Mr Trumps inner circle Allen Weisselberg 20 times The revelations set intensify scrutiny Mr Weisselberg Mr Trumps unassuming 71yearold chief financial officer already focus federal prosecutors New York
On Wednesday Mr Cohen specifically identified Mr Weisselberg helping mastermind strategy mask reimbursements Mr Cohen payment Stormy Daniels pornographic film actress said affair Mr Trump
Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland chairman House Committee Oversight Reform said Wednesdays hearing probably want call additional witnesses including Mr Weisselberg gather additional evidence hushmoney payment
A Democratic official said House Intelligence Committee anticipates calling Mr Weisselberg testify well
Mr Cohen said hearing payment ordered Mr Trump violated campaign finance laws intended buy Ms Danielss silence could hurt Mr Trumps prospects right election
Mr Cohen said paid Ms Daniels money repaid Trump Organization
Allen Weisselberg made decision paid 12 months would look like retainer Mr Cohen told lawmakers describing reimbursements made monthly
Mr Cohen submitted Congress copy 35000 check labeled exhibit 5b said one monthly payments
It signed Mr Weisselberg Donald Trump Jr
Mr Weisselberg declined comment lawyers But clear lawmakers investigators might home examine Trump Organizations finances
After Mr Cohen pleaded guilty campaign finance fraud crimes August federal prosecutors Manhattan began focusing role Trump Organization executives including Mr Weisselberg played campaign finance scheme according people briefed matter
As part investigation Mr Weisselberg granted limited immunity testify federal grand jury last year But indication cooperated prosecutors
Mr Weisselberg accountant began career books Mr Trumps father dingy building Brooklyn For decades represented Mr Trump paperwork everything complex real estate deals operations antique carousel Central Park Trump Organization runs
In 2015 lawyer representing students alleged defrauded Mr Trumps education venture Trump University questioned Mr Weisselberg deposition describing Mr Trumps eyes ears investments
Mr Weisselberg replied Am I eyes ears From economic standpoint court records show In 2016 Mr Trump settled case 25 million
Corey Lewandowski former Trump campaign official wrote book coauthored Let Trump Be Trump Mr Weisselberg knows every dime leaves building
Aside Mr Weisselberg several Trump associates may asked testify House wake Mr Cohens hearing including three executives Trump Organization Matthew Calamari Alan Garten Ronald C Lieberman
But Mr Cummings said committee would proceed carefully avoid interfering investigation federal prosecutors special counsels office United States attorneys office Manhattan
Still indication may come Mr Cummings sent letters two lawyers said involved preparing Mr Trumps federal financial disclosure filing originally omitted payments made reimburse Mr Cohen payment Ms Daniels
The letters requested lawyers Sheri A Dillon Stefan C Passantino appear interviews committee March
Ms Dillon tax lawyer represents Mr Trump Mr Passantino deputy White House counsel time focused ethics since left advises Trump Organization deal House investigations
Mr Weisselberg previously questioned oath lawsuit filed last year New York attorney general Trump Foundation Mr Trumps charitable organization served treasurer In late December foundation dissolved attorney general accused fraud
The United States attorneys office Manhattan New York attorney generals office declined comment
Mr Weisselbergs involvement hush money payments women first surfaced last year federal prosecutors seized recordings Mr Cohens office On one recordings Mr Cohen heard saying Ive spoken Allen Weisselberg set whole thing
For part Mr Trump expressed confidence Mr Weisselberg turn president
100 percent didnt Mr Trump told reporters Bloomberg asked last year whether Mr Weisselberg betrayed Hes wonderful guy
Others certain
I sure Allen want hurt Donald I sure affection said Barbara Res former executive Trump Organization critic president But hes terrible position Donald put
One secret Mr Weisselbergs lifelong career Trump family earthy modesty according friends biographers Mr Trump He wears dark unflashy suits cultivates saltandpepper mustache He still shows desk Trump Tower every day watching organizations finances
He whatever necessary protect bottom line Mr Trump wrote Mr Weisselberg book Think Like Billionaire
As child Brownsville Brooklyn Mr Weisselberg played punchball dark rode city bus school 15 cents In The Aurora green clothbound yearbook Thomas Jefferson High School class 1965 appears cowlicked teenage boy names dream profession accountant
President Trumps father made dream come true In 1973 hired Mr Weisselberg accounting office Gravesend Brooklyn
Mr Weisselberg never lost Brownsville humility even employer lavished things like private jet rides pool MaraLago least one advantageous real estate deal
He embodiment accountant said Gwenda Blair interviewed Mr Weisselberg 2000 book The Trumps
Mr Weisselbergs lifestyle remained modest even rose office 26th floor Trump Tower
He lived ranchstyle house Wantagh Long Island wife nearly 50 years Hilary selling 2013 468000 In 2002 spent 282000 vacation property lowslung house backs lagoon Boynton Beach Fla
Most recently Weisselbergs rented apartment Trumpbranded building Riverside Boulevard In 2016 800 residents voted strip Trump name facade
Mr Weisselbergs loyalty wellcompensated whole family benefited relationship Mr Trump
One Mr Weisselbergs sons Barry property manager Trump Wollman Rink past 17 years according LinkedIn profile There hosted Hanukkah Ice dialing dad putting speaker phone could hear holiday songs Barry Weisselberg declined comment
Mr Weisselbergs son Jack works Ladder Capital real estate investment trust one Trump Organizations biggest creditors
Jack benefited ways In 2000 father purchased onebedroom apartment Trump Parc East building overlooking Central Park It cost 152500 appears purchased profoundly market value according property records He transferred deed son Jack according property records flipped four times original price 2006
Jack Weisselberg respond email phone messages
Aside awkward cameo second season Mr Trumps television show The Apprentice Mr Weisselberg recently stayed limelight focusing serving boss
In books interviews president described Mr Weisselberg goto man whether help pick carpet swatches development strongarm firms contracted
In Mr Cohens testimony Wednesday Mr Trumps reliance CFO display When came paying back fixer hush money Mr Cohen said president turned Mr Weisselberg
He acknowledged Allen going pay 130000 Mr Cohen said And Allen I go back office figure
An earlier version article misidentified street Weisselbergs rented apartment Trumpbranded building It Riverside Boulevard Riverside Drive
Ben Protess Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting Susan C Beachy contributed research



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos Maggie Haberman
WASHINGTON Michael D Cohen plans tell Congress Wednesday President Trump con man cheat knew longtime adviser communicating WikiLeaks implicitly instructed Mr Cohen lie Trump Tower project Moscow underway 2016 presidential campaign
The extraordinary testimony take place Mr Cohen presidents former lawyer fixer publicly appears House Oversight Reform Committee An advance copy Mr Cohens testimony obtained Tuesday night reporters multiple news organizations including The New York Times Mr Trump began meetings Vietnam convening North Korean leader Kim Jongun
Read opening statement Find watch
Mr Cohen lawyer adviser Lanny J Davis immediately reply requests comment
In statement earlier Tuesday Sarah Huckabee Sanders White House press secretary condemned Mr Cohen disgraced felon
Its laughable anyone would take convicted liar like Cohen word pathetic see given yet another opportunity spread lies said
In vivid times tortured language Mr Cohen plans use opening remarks unspool narrative laced regret decade working alongside Mr Trump including episodes 2016 campaign believed center investigations special counsel Robert S Mueller III federal prosecutors New York
The testimony underscores many unsavory themes stories recurred public reporting Mr Trump inflates wealth makes racist remarks threatens enemies tries bend law favor puts record oath voice man one Mr Trumps closest aides
I ashamed I chose take part concealing Mr Trumps illicit acts rather listening conscience Mr Cohen plans say I ashamed I know Mr Trump He racist He con man He cheat
But also perilous claims could highlight Mr Trumps potential legal exposure investigations already ensnared Mr Cohen Trump associates Mr Cohens testimony Oversight Committee first public Congress already spent 70 hours Mr Muellers investigators federal prosecutors New York investigating scheme hatched runup 2016 election make hush money payments pornographic film actress claimed affair Mr Trump
Mr Cohen account subjected deep scrutiny Republicans already begun hammer away questions past business dealings credibility They plan use Wednesdays hearing paint Mr Cohen selfcentered untrustworthy man ran afoul law including lying Congress caught sought spin lies former boss reduce time prison
Mr Cohen address past lies headon plans use documents try bolster certain claims He plans draw picture Mr Trump using type nonspecific directives often associated organized crime bosses American presidents
In conversations campaign time I actively negotiating Russia would look eye tell theres business Russia go lie American people saying thing Mr Cohen plans say In way telling lie
He add Mr Trump directly tell lie Congress Thats operates
Mr Cohen also plans say Mr Trumps personal lawyers approved testimony suggesting signed telling false version events House Senate Intelligence Committees Mr Cohen meeting committees private week part correct earlier false statements
Mr Trump knew directed Trump Moscow negotiations throughout campaign lied Mr Cohen say He lied never expected win election He also lied stood make hundreds millions dollars Moscow real estate project
Wednesdays congressional hearing focusing part much Trump knew hush money payments proposed Trump Tower Moscow
What Mr Trump said Mr Cohen emerged central question website BuzzFeed reported last month Mr Mueller evidence president personally directed former lawyer lie project testified Congress 2017 Mr Muellers office called report inaccurate
Mr Cohens account oath state something took place Mr Trump made overt directive
Mr Cohen also tell Congress Mr Trump advance knowledge longtime adviser Roger J Stone Jr WikiLeaks would publish hacked emails would damage opponent Hillary Clinton
In July 2016 days Democratic convention I Mr Trumps office secretary announced Roger Stone phone Mr Trump put Mr Stone speakerphone written remarks say Mr Stone told Mr Trump gotten phone Julian Assange Mr Assange told Mr Stone within couple days would massive dump emails would damage Hillary Clintons campaign Mr Trump responded stating effect wouldnt great
Mr Stone recently indicted charges include witness tampering false statements Congress denied reporters conversation took place The recent indictment made mention conversation state senior campaign official directed contact Mr Stone around period time material WikiLeaks
And Mr Cohen reference conversation claims observed presidents eldest son Donald Trump Jr father believes happened around time planned meeting Russian lawyer promising dirt Hillary Clinton
He claim heard direct reference meeting Instead Mr Cohen say recalled event The Times revealed June 2016 meeting taken place
I recalled Don Jr leaning father speaking low voice I could clearly hear saying The meeting set I remember Mr Trump saying OK good let know Mr Cohen say
CNN reported last year citing sources Mr Cohen witnessed younger Mr Trump describing meeting Russian lawyer father Mr Cohens lawyer Mr Davis later said provided information report erroneous
Much Mr Cohen say hush money payments made Mr Trumps behest final weeks 2016 campaign already revealed Federal Court news reports Mr Cohen charged campaign finance violation scheme But describe surreal scene Oval Office month Mr Trumps term president assured Mr Cohen reimbursement checks illegal payments way
Mr Cohen chronicle less legally dubious unflattering encounters well according prepared remarks He plans say candidate Mr Trump directed write letters high school college entities threatening release transcripts standardized test scores
He claim Mr Trump asked put reporters asking medical deferment Vietnam draft telling Mr Cohen privately medical records bone spurs said affected heel
You think Im stupid I wasnt going Vietnam Mr Trump said according Mr Cohen
And assert experience Mr Trump inflated wealth garner attention deflated assets lower tax bills
Mr Cohen plans describe former boss jumble conflicts one ultimately dishonorable person
Mr Trump enigma Mr Cohen say He complicated I He good bad But bad far outweighs good since taking office become worst version
Detailing hush money payments actress Mr Cohen reimbursed state affair fact say lying Mr Trumps wife Melania something deeply regrets She kind good person say I respect greatly deserve
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Fandos Maggie Haberman
WASHINGTON Staring looming prison sentence lying Congress crimes Michael D Cohen arrived Capitol Hill last week declaring finally ready tell truth decade work alongside President Trump
I lied Mr Cohen presidents former lawyer told House Oversight Reform Committee outset explosive public hearing But I liar
At least Mr Cohens success clearing past actions nearly week public private testimony Capitol Hill become muddled
Mr Cohen laid detailed case complete documentary evidence Mr Trump fully participated fraudulent scheme closing weeks presidential campaign buy silence pornographic film actress claimed affair But left Washington Wednesday however inadvertently also handed Republican critics looking fresh material could weaponize try undermine credibility larger account
They wasted little time seizing Mr Trumps legal team Republicans Capitol Hill recent days accused Mr Cohen changing key details stories particularly possible job White House possible presidential pardon benefit seeking profit notoriety Mr Trump picked one points Thursday afternoon
Mr Cohens allies brushed criticism little distractions suggested release additional testimony gave private clear
Still conflicting disputed claims underscore Mr Cohens flaws witness least version investigations litigated publicly Congress
If todays answer different yesterdays answer gets reset says Im telling truth said Senator Richard M Burr Republican North Carolina chairman Senate Intelligence Committee also privately grilled Mr Cohen last week Prove
All indications remain however Mr Cohen proved valuable witness federal prosecutors working special counsel Robert S Mueller III vouched truthfulness Southern District New York appear built case least part around accounts
In public testimony House Oversight Committee last week Mr Cohen emphatically denied ever wanted White House job presidential pardon
I want go White House Mr Cohen asserted questioning
But still seated table hearing room one presidents sons Eric Trump took Twitter dispute one claims
Michael lobbying EVERYONE Chief Staff wrote It biggest joke campaign around office Did perjure Other members 2016 Trump campaign backed
Mr Cohen adamant sought pardon Mr Trump
I never asked would I accept pardon Mr Trump said hearing
A week testimony though Mr Cohens lawyer Lanny J Davis told The Wall Street Journal Mr Cohen directed former lawyer Stephen Ryan inquire possibility pardon Mr Trumps lawyers
Mr Davis maintained discrepancy statement Mr Cohens testimony insisting client given instructions Trump team dangled possible pardon part shared defense Mr Davis said Mr Cohen referring testimony period early July 2018 presidents former fixer split old boss
This time Mr Trumps eldest son Donald Trump Jr pounced
So Cohens lawyer admitting Cohen committed perjury last week said NEVER sought pardon presidents son Trump children closest Mr Cohen posted Twitter Just making sure page CC DOJ
Republicans Congress conspicuously sought hearings discredit Mr Cohen rather defend president quickly sought document claimed inconsistencies Two Oversight Committees top Republicans Representatives Jim Jordan Ohio Mark Meadows North Carolina referred Mr Cohen Justice Department possible prosecution perjury
Mr Cohens testimony wrote spectacular brazen attempt knowingly willfully testify falsely fictitiously numerous material facts They documented said six possible material misstatements Mr Cohen hearing Thursday added Mr Cohens statements pardons list
As I warned Mr Cohens appearance Oversight Committee relying admitted liar attack president beneath dignity Peoples House Mr Jordan said statement Thursday On Twitter asked committees chairman Representative Elijah E Cummings Democrat Maryland take claims seriously
Democrats careful qualify need additional testimony evidence corroborate Mr Cohens claims But dismissed Republicans accusations simple partisanship
I dont think people jump conclusions chance review evidence including testimony Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi Illinois Democratic member Oversight Intelligence Committees
People close Mr Cohen said expecting Republicans attack truthfulness
Mr Davis said interview Mr Trump allies reminiscent days working counsel Clinton White House congressional investigations led Republicans In case said goal distracting fact president reimbursing Mr Cohen
What would focus little tripup pebble something Mr Davis said intention getting everybody talk big picture obscured
When facing serious media storm said would everything could change subject something trivial The bigger picture Mr Davis said proven beyond doubt president United States committed felony writing checks
There public statements Mr Cohen scrutiny well
Mr Cohen testified public White House lawyers including Jay Sekulow edited false statement delivered Congress 2017 proposed Trump Tower project Moscow 2016 presidential campaign
There several changes made including going handle message message course length time Trump Tower Moscow project stayed remained alive said
Mr Cohen shared drafts statement documents intelligence committees Wednesday said supported public claim But Thursday Mr Davis confirmed CNN Mr Cohen fact written false line
Others familiar discussions took place time Mr Cohens original testimony said lawyers approved Trump legal teams proposals These people added Trump lawyers indication time dates cited Mr Cohen inaccurate
Nicholas Fandos reported Washington Maggie Haberman New York Emily Cochrane contributed reporting Washington
Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Michael Wines
In first appearance House committee controlled Democrats Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross faced pointed questions Thursday sworn testimony decision last year add question citizenship 2020 census
Democrats hearing held House Committee Oversight Government Reform expressed incredulity Mr Rosss insistence sought question behest Justice Department explanation two federal judges said credible
Representative William Clay Missouri Democrat said one explanation Mr Rosss deliberations pass laugh test disclosed draft Justice Departments request written former member Trump administrations political transition team
The committees questioning came ahead Supreme Court hearing next month legality citizenship question challenged attorneys general 17 states District Columbia host cities counties Critics say adding question discourage immigrants filling form improve Republican political fortunes
The census count determine states gain lose seats House Representatives redistricting begins 2021
Republicans Thursday fulminated Democrats staging political sideshow aimed tainting Supreme Court hearing For part Mr Ross rebuffed questions repeatedly citing sixpage memo used announce citizenship question March 2018 largely refusing elaborate
The memo said Justice Department needed know noncitizens lived better determine whether racial ethnic composition political districts met mandates 1965 Voting Rights Act But federal judge Manhattan ruled January Mr Ross aides clearly decided add question shortly taking office February 2017 recruited Justice Department officials launder request another agency obtain cover decision already made
Mr Rosss efforts refute drew scorn Democrats Asked email May 2017 complained inaction monthsold request include citizenship question Mr Ross said actually frustrated Justice Departments slowness telling whether needed citizenship data
No conclusive alternative explanation including question emerged lawsuits But plaintiffs lawsuits claimed Democrats suggested Wednesday real reason asking census respondents citizenship frighten noncitizens even legal immigrants filling form That would depress population count among groups traditionally vote Democratic skew next reapportionment House Representatives political districts 2021
Noncitizens counted reapportionment House 14th Amendment requires apportioning based whole number persons state Mr Ross said court documents already showed discussed received information impact noncitizens reapportionment But said considered information considering citizenship question
The citizenship question challenged federal courts three states courts New York Maryland already ruled inclusion 2020 head count Judge Jesse M Furman Federal District Court Manhattan said Mr Ross broken veritable smorgasbord federal rules A second ruling federal court Maryland stated Mr Rosss decision violated constitutional requirement conduct accurate count population would depress response census



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ian Austen
OTTAWA Canadas former justice minister repeatedly warned countrys top public servant possible political fallout intervened criminal case involving major Canadian corporation according recording conversation released Friday
Jody WilsonRaybould also former attorney general gave recording parliamentary committee looking accusations Prime Minister Justin Trudeau top aides improperly pressured handle case
She also provided committee testified last month emails texts statement
Her accusations led political crisis Mr Trudeau dominated news coverage Canada last two months badly tarnished image feminist pledged bring clean ways politics
Read How Justin Trudeau Was Ensnared Scandal A Corruption Case Veiled Threats
In firestorm Ms WilsonRaybould resigned cabinet moved post veterans affairs Jane Philpott another minister Gerald Butts Mr Trudeaus close friend top political adviser Michael Wernick clerk privy council also resigned post
Mr Trudeau repeatedly denied anyone strongarmed Ms WilsonRaybould saying government concerned criminal conviction company would put thousands Canadian jobs risk
He preparing campaign reelection October trying divert countrys attention away controversy toward achievements plans future Fridays release documents likely help
In statement Ms WilsonRaybould lawyer regional chief First Nations Canadas west coast advocate Indigenous rights commented case portrayed media
A significant part public discourse matter touched issues race gender particular undeniable elements misogyny aimed wrote
Echoing Mr Trudeaus call last election different approach politics Ms WilsonRaybould thanked Canadians give hope wrote looked forward acting alongside future future truly politics differently
Want Canadian coverage inbox Sign Canada Letter newsletter
In recording 17 minutes long Mr Wernick clerk privy council told Ms WilsonRaybould repeatedly Mr Trudeaus concerns potential job losses company SNCLavalin convicted bribery charges banned government work
The company charged bribing Libyan officials dictatorship Col Muammar elQaddafi defrauding Libyan government
Mr Wernick said Mr Trudeau want anything illegal inappropriate asked Ms WilsonRaybould unwilling use new law could replace criminal conviction hefty monetary penalty
Ms WilsonRaybould warned clerk dangers government intervening case issuing orders prosecutors independent politicians Canada
Does understand gravity potentially could mean asked clerk referring Mr Trudeau This saving jobs This interfering one fundamental institutions This like breaching constitutional principle
While Mr Wernick confrontational conversation former minister persistent pushing settlement
It good idea prime minister attorney general loggerheads says one point
The recording made without Mr Wernicks knowledge Ms WilsonRaybould told committee statement This legal Canada acknowledged inappropriate
She said took call home Vancouver British Columbia didnt access staff member take notes
Asked comment Ms WilsonRayboulds submission committee Cameron Ahmad Mr Trudeaus director communications said email statement Friday night We focused moving forward team issues matter Canadians governing best interests country
Last week Mr Trudeau put new processes place government handles criminal matters ordered review splitting attorney generals job justice minister
But satisfied opposition Conservative party trying keep controversy alive
Conservatives demanded justice committee call Ms WilsonRaybould back testimony committee dominated Mr Trudeaus Liberal party refused The Conservative leader Andrew Scheer frequently accused Mr Trudeau coverup
Mr Trudeau careful criticize Ms WilsonRaybould Ms Philpott two ministers remain Liberal members Parliament
But last week Liberal caucus members cabinet ministers circumspect comes former colleagues
Canadians vote local members Parliament political parties prime minister As result political turmoil Ms WilsonRaybould triggered could affect colleagues chances reelection Octobers federal election
The criticisms became widespread last week Ms Philpott told Macleans magazine theres much story needs told wasnt coming theres attempt shut story Mr Trudeau aides
But statement Friday night Mr Ahmad said All facts table everyone involved shared perspective including prime minister
Some Liberal members Parliament say push expel Ms WilsonRaybould Ms Philpott caucus meeting scheduled Wednesday



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
The absurdity denying Trumps bigotry
By Michelle Goldberg
Opinion Columnist
Its hard say whats bigger taboo American politics racist calling someone one
Sure Republican Party occasionally try distance one egregiously hateful members like Representative Steve King Iowa lost committee assignments seeming defend white nationalism But mostly rightwing politicians media allies pretend point farce primary racial injustice America involves white people unfairly accused racism This makes talking openly evident racism president harder
To see works microcosm consider House Oversight Committee hearing Donald Trumps former consigliere Michael Cohen testified Wednesday Cohen said opening statement addition con man cheat Trump racist This clear people good faith given Trump leading figure birther movement defended white supremacist marchers Charlottesville claimed couldnt get fair hearing judge Mexican heritage mention examples
Listen The Argument podcast every Thursday morning Ross Douthat Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt
But Representative Mark Meadows Republican North Carolina strenuously objected Cohens description came seemed think airtight rejoinder Meadows white Lynne Patton AfricanAmerican woman longtime Trump employee Department Housing Urban Development stand behind quoted saying would work racist Checkmate
In past one person would often publicly vouch Trumps nonracism Omarosa Manigault Newman ApprenticestarturnedWhite House aide Then Manigault Newman came book calling Trump racist bigot misogynist As part promotional tour book released audio recording conversation Patton another AfricanAmerican Trump supporter Katrina Pierson strategizing handle fallout tape surface Trump using racist slur On recording Patton person Meadows called upon character witness president didnt seem doubtful Trump could said thing
Many liberals agog stunt Meadows left largely accepted responding charges racism pointing black friends never mind black employees clueless best Some white conservatives however seem convinced cant racist affectionate relationship person color And Representative Rashida Tlaib Democrat Michigan called Meadows toward end hearing aggrieved nearly melted
The fact someone would actually use prop black woman chamber committee alone racist said Tlaib PalestinianAmerican Redfaced indignant seemingly verge tears Meadows demanded Tlaibs words stricken record turned charge racism back said nieces nephews people color In stunning dramatization racial dynamics determine whose emotions honored hearing momentarily came halt Tlaib could assure Meadows didnt mean call racist committee chairman Elijah Cummings AfricanAmerican could comfort I could see feel pain Cummings told
So Meadows emerged victim There however another twist It turns 2012 Meadows said racist things Barack Obama promising least two occasions send American president home Kenya wherever As recordings comments ricocheted news Meadows didnt quite apologize tell reporters words way I shouldve answered questions In one instance appear responding question I tell anyone knows knows racial bone body added
I dont know Meadows racial bone I suspect may best arbiter constitutes bigotry Then comes Trump arbiter really needed Why Meadowss rediscovered birtherism newsworthy automatically understood pertinent debate racism lack thereof Because theres mainstream assumption racist say Obama secretly hails Africa This somehow doesnt translate mainstream assumption Trump rode birther conspiracies political prominence unrepentant racist He shunned Steve King shunned cant shunned president
This contradiction behind madness public life right Normalizing Trump become central mission Republican Party depends denial racism Not first time Tlaib got trouble pointing obvious president bigot bringing Patton exonerate Meadows demonstrated gross insensitivity
On Thursday Tlaib Meadows reportedly warm conversation House floor according CNN reporter hugged Im glad given much shes demonized short time Congress probably interest make Meadows feel better earlier exchange Who knows shes friendly enough maybe hell able cite relationship next time hes caught saying something awful
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Michelle Goldberg Opinion columnist since 2017 She author several books politics religion womens rights part team Pulitzer Prize public service 2018 reporting workplace sexual harassment issues michelleinbklyn
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Annie Karni
WASHINGTON As political appointee Department Housing Urban Development Lynne Patton become one prominent AfricanAmerican officials Trump administration color skin relationship President Trump led appearance Michael D Cohens congressional testimony Wednesday
Before getting job HUD Ms Patton event planner New York worked Trump Organization Eric Trump Foundation Anticipating Mr Cohens accusation President Trump racist Representative Mark Meadows Republican North Carolina invited Ms Patton appear rebuttal charge
You made demeaning comments president Ms Patton doesnt agree Mr Meadows said Mr Cohen called former boss racist noted among comments told black people would never vote stupid
As Ms Patton 46 stood silently behind Mr Meadows argued Ms Pattons loyalty Mr Trump proved could true
I asked Lynne come today personal capacity actually shed light Mr Meadows said She says daughter man born Birmingham Ala way would work individual racist
Mr Meadows asked Ms Pattons entire statement put record Ms Patton never opened mouth And shortly Mr Meadows called stand behind left chamber But brief cameo ignited heated exchange race later hearing
Representative Rashida Tlaib Democrat Michigan called insensitive possibly racist use black woman prop
As person color committee I felt moment I wanted express said House Oversight Reform Committees afternoon session Mr Cohen Im saying racist act
Mr Meadows fired back noting nieces nephews people color Appealing Representative Elijah E Cummings chairman committee Mr Meadows insisted even go direction wrong
Mr Cummings Maryland Democrat AfricanAmerican defended Mr Meadows calling one best friends
Ms Tlaib said intend call racist I apologize thats sounded like said I said someone general And everybody knows chamber Im pretty direct
But idea Ms Pattons mere presence loyalty Trump family would somehow rebut allegation president could racist widely immediately criticized Democrats inside outside House chamber
The stunt shows ignorant Republicans comes race Karine JeanPierre senior adviser progressive political organizing group MoveOnorg wrote Twitter Its also offensive beyond pale
Ms Patton said received invitation Mr Meadows appear hearing saw picture Instagram account posted Tuesday Under photograph smiling Mr Cohen Trump Grill described Mr Cohen one best friends decade
I sad Michael would world stage levy unsubstantiated claims particularly bigotry racism man singlehandedly helped raise five unbiased openminded children Ive ever known wrote
Ms Patton said statement submitted Wednesday House committee identical 387word caption Instagram photo
Ms Patton spoke Republican National Convention 2016 risen prominence Trump orbit tellall book Omarosa Manigault Newman another prominent AfricanAmerican official spent years defending Mr Trump
In memoir published fired White House December 2017 Ms Manigault Newman also accused Mr Trump racist And recordings released promoting book Ms Manigault Newman put taped discussion Ms Patton whether Mr Trump ever used Nword On tape discuss possibility Mr Trump used word recorded conversation remains unclear
Since Ms Patton HUDs New York regional director recently drawn attention spending month citys public housing eager demonstrate loyalty Trump family
But Ms Manigault Newman watching Mr Cohens testimony home said interview former colleague simply used
Bringing Lynne particular hearing show said Referring Mr Trumps practice staff members sign nondisclosure agreements said Everyone knows shes multiple NDA agreements could say anything disparaging president first family even wanted Ms ManigaultNewman added agreed Mr Cohens categorization Mr Trump racist
Ms Patton denies nondisclosure agreement
You dont need NDA youre simply telling truth said
An earlier version video caption article misspelled given name political appointee Department Housing Urban Development She Lynne Patton Lynn
OpinionKashana Cauley


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ian Austen
OTTAWA Prime Minister Justin Trudeau Canada trying weeks shift countrys attention accusations former justice minister government improperly pressured criminal case
On Wednesday members party helped blocking minister testifying matter parliamentary committee
Mr Trudeaus opponents immediately cried foul
What say Canadians said Tracey Ramsey member New Democratic Party That something hide
The committee controlled Mr Trudeaus Liberal party Liberal committee members speak reporters
Last month former justice minister Jody WilsonRaybould also former attorney general told House Commons justice committee Mr Trudeau aides persistently improperly pressured seek monetary penalty rather criminal conviction corruption case SNCLavalin giant Montrealbased company
The company accused paying tens millions dollars bribes Libyan officials country ruled Col Muammar elQaddafi
Last week Mr Trudeaus top political aide best friend college Gerald Butts also testified committee
He said Ms WilsonRaybould asked consider monetary penalty conviction would bar SNCLavalin government contracts potentially jeopardize 9000 Canadian jobs
He also told lawmakers Ms WilsonRaybould moved less prestigious post veterans affairs January resigned cabinet first offered job Indigenous affairs minister turned
After testimony Ms WilsonRaybould remains Liberal member Parliament said willing retestify And Conservatives pushed committee call back
But lawmakers shut meeting without formally considering inviting back As vote held adjourn several Conservative members shouted cover shame
Mr Trudeau directed committee members shut committees investigation SNCLavalin scandal Pierre Poilievre Conservative told reporters The justice committee become Justin committee
When Mr Trudeau held new conference controversy last week conspicuously offer apologies cited importance committee hearings well conflict interest investigation Parliamentary ethics commissioner
Since Liberals appear trying focus conversation budget presented Tuesday outline governments priorities leading national election October
Mr Trudeau Florida week family school break vacation
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ian Austen
OTTAWA If Prime Minister Justin Trudeau thought burgeoning political scandal could quietly contained hope vanished Thursday Canadians dissected explosive testimony former justice minister parliamentary committee
I dont think Ive ever seen minister strafe government like said Andrew MacDougall spokesman Stephen Harper Conservative prime minister Mr Trudeau replaced 2015 It reinforces peoples perception politicians kind bent
During nearly four hours testimony House Commons justice committee Wednesday evening former minister Jody WilsonRaybould repeatedly contradicted undermined Mr Trudeaus assertions neither staff acted improperly trying settle criminal case SNCLavalin multinational construction engineering company based Montreal
Latest update Trudeau promised fresh approach politics Now hes embroiled scandal
Ms WilsonRayboulds description 10 meetings 10 conversations series emails criminal case senior government officials dominated social media news coverage Canada Thursday Andrew Scheer Conservative opposition leader Parliament asked Royal Canadian Mounted Police open criminal investigation matter
Mr Trudeau running reelection fall already fending call resignation Mr Scheer well demands independent public inquiry
On Thursday night opposition parties led emergency debate House Commons condemned actions prime minister circle Liberal members reiterated Mr Trudeaus explanations quoted Ms WilsonRayboulds testimony one acted illegally undermined justice system
Parliaments ethics commissioner already looking accusations
Want Canadian coverage inbox Sign weekly Canada Letter newsletter
Mr Trudeau acknowledged others spoke Ms WilsonRaybould cutting deal case SNCLavalin charged paying millions dollars bribes officials Libya country controlled dictator Col Muammar elQaddafi denied acting improperly
The deal would seen company pay large penalty receive criminal conviction would barred government work decade possibly led leaving Canada cutting thousands jobs particularly Quebec
On Thursday Mr Trudeau rejected Ms WilsonRayboulds assertion government officials talks improper political interference delivered veiled threats
Canadians expect government look ways protect jobs grow economy thats exactly weve done every step way Mr Trudeau told reporters Montreal But weve also done way respected laws respected independence judiciary
Mr Trudeau predicted justice committee controlled Liberal Party ethics commissioner whose role largely limits monitoring potential conflicts interest vindicate
But several analysts said Mr Trudeau may find difficult avoid independent inquiry
While government doesnt want subject weeks intense scrutiny opening looks bad said Emmett Macfarlane associate professor political science University Waterloo Ontario
If drags added avoid process potential conclude something shady happens behind scenes time
John Duffy former adviser previous Liberal government pointed although Ms WilsonRaybould also served attorney general accused Mr Trudeau aides acting improperly acknowledged testimony one pressuring SNCLavalin broke laws specifically assured Canadians judicial system broken
Im trying make civics textbook example things work Mr Duffy said adding end Ms WilsonRaybould give company break prosecution continued
But governing style sausage making said
That however assessment shared Mr Trudeaus opponents cast affair group made mostly men ganging woman trying uphold principle judicial dependence
Norman Spector chief staff Brian Mulroney former Canadian prime minister said people likely view affair pretty simplistic story Liberals helping friend Quebec
They suspicions system rigged added Mr Spector recently adviser Green Party British Columbia
While Mr Spector believes Mr Trudeau vigorously resist calls inquiry noted prime minister already backed several positions controversy
Most notably Liberal majority justice committee kept Ms WilsonRaybould initial witness list hearings adding
On Thursday Gerald Butts close friend Mr Trudeaus stepped top political adviser last week controversy asked justice committee call witness
Last month Ms WilsonRaybould moved Canadas Justice Department Veterans Affairs step widely linked resistance SNCLavalin case This month quit cabinet entirely although declined offer specific reason decision
Mr Trudeau said Thursday reviewing status member Liberal caucus Parliament Ms WilsonRaybould represents constituency Vancouver British Columbia
While Liberals said privately several caucus members want removed action potential make political martyr
If I advising prime minister I would hesitant recommend take action Professor Macfarlane said
Follow Ian Austen Twitter ianrausten




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Choe SangHun
SEOUL South Korea North Korean officials returned work joint interKorean liaison office Monday three days North Korea pulled staff members office operated South Korea since last September
North Korea abruptly withdrew workers liaison office located North Korean border town Kaesong last Friday raising fears hardening position toward South weeks summit meeting leader Kim Jongun President Trump ended without deal
But several North Korean officials showed office Monday telling South Korean counterparts returned work usual Souths Ministry National Unification said statement The North Koreans returned office two days Mr Trump tweeted ordered government withdraw additional large scale sanctions North though clear whether two moves connected
The unification ministry said expected operation interKorean official return normal But North Koreans explain withdrew office Friday reversed decision
South Korean officials dealing North long complained unpredictable behavior
The sudden withdrawal North Korean personnel Friday setback President Moon Jaein South Korea billed offices opening milestone improving interKorean relations The office established first channel fulltime persontoperson contact two Koreas since 195053 Korean War
South North Korea agreed open liaison office Mr Moon Mr Kim held first summit meeting April
After breakdown TrumpKim summit meeting late February North Korea repeatedly expressed disappointment Mr Moons government It urged South stop obeying Washington instead push ahead interKorean joint economic projects held back Americanled international sanctions

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Canada Letter
By Ian Austen
We continued following political turmoil Ottawa week But also held special event subscribers another matter national importance Canadas relationship China
Nearly 250 readers dialed conference call whose host Deborah Solomon economics editor Washington On line Dan Bilefsky colleague Montreal Chris Buckley Beijing correspondent Katie Benner covers United States Justice Department Washington Raymond Zhong technology reporter also based Beijing
They discussed arrest Meng Wanzhou chief financial officer Chinese electronics giant Huawei house arrest Vancouver awaiting extradition hearing may see sent United States face fraud charges They also talked Chinas arrest spying charges Canadians Michael Kovrig Michael Spavor
And course CanadaChina relations general came
For missed highlights conversation They edited conciseness clarity
What next steps two Canadians held China
Raymond Well courts controlled Communist Party So outcome terms legal processes going depend quite heavily political situation Whatever happens Ms Meng seems pretty likely affect outcome
What United States contend Ms Meng Huawei done
Katie What alleged Huawei used one subsidiaries secretly business Iran subject stringent American sanctions
The government alleging Ms Meng others company basically hid fact money would moving Iran inveigled lot banks business violation sanctions
Those extremely serious allegations
The question though whether United States government convince rest world Huawei evaded sanctions also broader argument hat Huawei closely aligned Chinese government nobody use equipment Theyre holding case Meng prime example company cant trusted
Is Huawei connected controlled Chinese government
Raymond Huawei maintains operates independently government But bigger backdrop really China country private companies operate independently government Thats true informal ways
The operating environment China one companies listen government
In middle President Trump suggested hes trying win trade deal China case Huawei Ms Meng could potentially dropped works Americas interests How complicating Canadas willingness extradite
Dan
In terms legal questions regarding extradition process really matter courts Its political matter
Now one arguments Ms Mengs defense lawyers making comments Mr Trump politicized case therefore extradition proceed
But quite rare Canada refuse extradition requests United States
How affected trade Canada China
Raymond China imports certain things quite heavily Canada including canola oil And last month reports shipments canola oil delayed held significantly Chinese ports
The official Chinese line pests discovered shipments But almost everybody sees another swipe Canada connection Huawei situation
But trading relationship relationship people two countries seems quite vibrant Theres new Canada Goose flagship store opened Beijing far The New York Times bureau And I report people seem pretty happy keep buying Canada Goose
Is China pushing Canada around Chinese leadership considers Canadian government weak I suspect China would dealing United States qualitatively different manner
Chris And Canada feeling pressure China theyre joining queue middleweight countries also similar tensions recently
I think China sort realistic view world United States seen big take way say Canada countries similar size
After nearly two months political turmoil Prime Minister Justin Trudeau trying get Canadians talk something anything else His effort wholly successful start
In Food Sara Bonisteel took look Nanaimo bars And didnt use opportunity repeat hoary old unflattering namesake community joke whats
Edith Iglauer first came Canada tell readers The New Yorker country She ended becoming part nations literary fabric
Beehives Vancouver double duty pollution detectors
In dramatic break past Canada publicly airing doubts United States declares airplanes fit flight
Somehow must stop carnage highways judge Saskatchewan said sentenced truck driver whose inattention led crash Humboldt Broncos team bus killing 16 people injuring 13 others
Hes 17 years old hes eligible NHL draft next year Alexis Lafrenière already equated one hockeys giants
There time safety features cars including seatbelts options Thats still case Boeing 737 Max planes airlines owned two involved recent fatal crashes
Bruce Pollin wandered around Prospect Park Brooklyn 100 pounds photographic gear including camera makes 8 10 inch negatives The result series remarkable idyllic portraits
A native Windsor Ontario Ian Austen educated Toronto lives Ottawa reported Canada The New York Times past 15 years Follow Twitter ianrausten
Wed love feedback newsletter Please email thoughts suggestions nytcanadanytimescom And havent done please subscribe email newsletter version
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ian Austen
OTTAWA The top political adviser Prime Minister Justin Trudeau Canada resigned Monday deepening political crisis allegations government tried interfere criminal court case
In statement announcing departure Gerald Butts close friend Mr Trudeaus since university days linked leaving allegations prime minister others improperly pressured Jody WilsonRaybould justice minister attorney general quash criminal prosecution major Canadian engineering construction company
Mr Butts repeatedly denied resignation letter action took place
Any accusation I staff put pressure attorney general simply true Mr Butts wrote But fact accusation exists It take one moment away vital work prime minister office Canadians
He added It best interests office important work step away
His resignation came week Ms WilsonRaybould resigned Trudeau cabinet In January moved post justice minister minister veterans affairs switch widely seen demotion
Rather calming growing political storm around Mr Trudeau Mr Buttss resignation seemed intensify
It opens another front said Patrick Gossage press secretary Pierre Elliott Trudeau former prime minister Justin Trudeaus father It raises questions answers Did really nothing making Jody WilsonRaybould feel wasnt wanted I dont think solves anything
Want Canadian coverage inbox Sign weekly Canada Letter newsletter
Mr Buttss absence leave significant void Mr Trudeaus leadership campaign team eight months election The son coal miner Cape Breton Nova Scotia Mr Butts met Mr Trudeau debating club McGill University Montreal two remained friends ever since
After working senior aide Liberal provincial government Ontario Mr Butts among small group brought Mr Trudeau teacher politics taught craft Mr Butts key player successful election campaign 2015 defied expectations raising Liberals third place polls victory making Mr Trudeau prime minister
Since Mr Butts acted Mr Trudeaus principal secretary widely viewed powerful player within prime ministers office He known aggressively challenging critics government Twitter
Mr Gossage said loss Mr Buttss guidance significant blow Mr Trudeau Liberal Party
The last year election dont leave boss behind Mr Gossage said
The allegations government interference criminal case first surfaced Globe Mail article cited anonymous sources According newspaper prime minister staff pushed Ms WilsonRaybould cut deal company SNCLavalin A Montrealbased engineering construction firm SNCLavalin accused paying multimillion bribes secure contracts Libya country ruled dictator Col Muammar elQaddafi
A criminal conviction would bar company 52000 employees worldwide working government Canada 10 years It feared could harm SNCLavalin financially leave vulnerable foreign takeover
Mr Trudeaus office confirmed last week Ms WilsonRaybould brought case conversation Mr Butts declined offer details said
In end federal prosecutors Canadas system supposed independent politicians decided continue prosecute company rather seek settlement new law introduced Mr Trudeaus government last March That measure allows companies pay substantial fine show resolved ethics issues avoid criminal conviction Two successive premiers Quebec called deal struck
Last week episode went involving anonymous allegations major political challenge federal ethics commissioner Mario Dion said would investigate prime ministers actions
Since resignation Ms WilsonRaybould neither said anything affair offered explanation left government Pointing demotion sudden departure opposition politicians charged without offering proof punished yielding SNCLavalin case
In resignation letter Mr Butts noted encouraged Ms WilsonRaybould former prosecutor Indigenous leader British Columbia enter politics
From perspective relationship always defined mutual respect candor honest desire work together wrote
Follow Ian Austen Twittter ianrausten
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
The party getting serious helping poor true middle class
By David Leonhardt
Opinion Columnist
This article part David Leonhardts newsletter You sign receive weekday
The economic plans offered potential 2020 Democratic presidential candidates much targeted lowincome households Barack Obamas proposed tax cut 2008
Pct benefits going
income group
Bottom 50
50th 90th percentile
Top 10
96
Kamala Harris housing plan
93
Cory Booker housing plan
86
13
Sherrod Brown tax cut
S BrownMichael Bennet
child allowance
77
23
76
24
Kamala Harris tax cut
61
38
Elizabeth Warren child care
Obama 2008 tax cut
36
52
12
Pct benefits going
income group
Bottom 50
50th 90th percentile
Top 10
Kamala Harris housing plan
96
4
Cory Booker housing plan
93
7
Sherrod Brown tax cut
86
13
S BrownMichael Bennet
child allowance
77
23
Kamala Harris tax cut
76
24
Elizabeth Warren child care
61
38
Obama 2008 tax cut
36
52
12
Sources Center Poverty Social Policy Columbia University Moodys Analytics Warren plan Tax Policy Center Obama plan
By The New York Times
I mentioned column week Democrats seem getting serious fighting poverty The chart helps make clear
It shows percentage federal dollars would go different income groups various economic proposals Democratic presidential candidates potential candidates For comparison also see breakdown tax plan Barack Obama proposed ran president 2008
The pattern quite clear This years candidates targeting plans much bottom half income distribution And theyre calling less spending would help top 10 percent earners Reducing poverty inequality developing central issue conversation around 2020 presidential election note researchers Columbia Universitys Center Poverty Social Policy
Listen The Argument podcast every Thursday morning Ross Douthat Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt
This approach consistent reality The bottom 90 percent earners fared much worse top 10 percent recent decades
For
Voxs Dylan Matthews writes rentsubsidy plans Cory Booker Kamala Harris especially well targeted poor people Thats partly unlike many antipoverty plans help people dont children arent working perhaps theyre disabled elderly Matthews explains
Times Abby Vesoulis explains BennetBrown child allowance
Mark Zandi Moodys Analytics analyzed Elizabeth Warrens childcare plan also subject praise David Plotz recent Slate Political Gabfest shortly minute 2600
Joe Biden seems taking steps toward announcing presidential campaign Hanna Trudo National Journal reports Biden said yesterday close getting decision family wants The important people life want run said If Ill interested see plans take poverty
Finally worth saying Obama administration take poverty seriously Its signature piece legislation Affordable Care Act biggest attack economic inequality since inequality began rising four decades ago But latest round Democrats putting even emphasis fighting poverty helping true middle class opposed selfidentified upper middle class Thats welcome development
Michael Cohen day
Michael Cohen Donald Trumps former lawyer testifies Congress today sure political spectacle Will matter
On one hand many Americans already made minds Trump testimony former aide whos pleaded guilty lying oath isnt going change minds In National Review David French makes case skepticism Cohens information Corroboration key writes Cohens credibility increases support story documents recordings even witnesses
On hand Cohens testimony going paint Trump extremely negative light liar racist criminal conspirator dominate television social media today As political scientist Jonathan Bernstein points Lots people hearing stuff first time And sometimes hearing person testifying different learning news reports
If subscriber newsletter subscribe You also join Twitter DLeonhardt Facebook
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
David Leonhardt former Washington bureau chief Times founding editor The Upshot head The 2020 Project future Times newsroom He 2011 Pulitzer Prize commentary columns financial crisis DLeonhardt Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ana Vanessa Herrero Nicholas Casey Katie Rogers
CARACAS Venezuela Juan Guaidó Venezuelan opposition leader returned country Monday gave speech cheering crowds defiance President Nicolás Maduro threatened arrested came back
We shout resolve may oppression die said Mr Guaidó supporters gathered Caracas capital They threatened us jail death nothing happen persecution
For days unclear whether Mr Guaidó would able return Venezuela flouted courtimposed order leave country made failed attempt move truckloads aid country Mr Maduros objections
When arrived Simon Bolívar Airport near Caracas Monday week abroad supporters celebrated around hopeful would breathe new life oppositions movement topple Mr Maduro
While Mr Maduro jailed opponents freely past made attempts Monday impede Mr Guaidó showing analysts said limits ability dispatch opposition crackdown
We saw clearly government understands danger arresting Guaidó said Dimitris Pantoulas political analyst Caracas This could generate tremendous violence Venezuela The government going hope protests simply peter
Mr Guaidó spent last week tour South America returned renewed backing regional allies many sent diplomats meet airport As departed Venezuela flight Panama Trump administration warned Mr Maduros government take action
Any threats violence intimidation tolerated met swift response Vice President Mike Pence wrote Twitter Monday The world watching Interim President Guaidó must allowed reenter Venezuela safely
Still warned Mr Guaidó remains danger Venezuela
Of course getting Caracas accompanied diplomatic officials doesnt mean wont arrested coming days said David Smilde senior analyst Washington Office Latin America
The United States one 50 countries recognize Mr Guaidó Venezuelas rightful president new elections held Several countries sent diplomatic representatives airport safeguard Mr Guaidós arrival
Mr Guaidó 35 become biggest challenge yet Mr Maduros embattled presidency since declared interim president January grounds Mr Maduro second term fraud
The struggle two intensified Venezuela Latin Americas prosperous nation slid worst economic crisis Mr Maduro accused critics corruption mismanagement Food shortages acute health care system collapsed three million Venezuelans fled
Mr Maduro called Mr Guaidó lackey Trump administration attributed countrys economic malaise American sanctions intensified President Trump
Mr Guaidó landed around noon local time mobbed large crowds wellwishers shouting name waving flags The arrivals terminal echoed chants libertad sí se puede freedom yes Spanish
The United States joined European Latin American countries sending diplomats put pressure Venezuelan government arrest Mr Guaidó
We hope safe return continue role president National Assembly said Daniel Kriener German ambassador Venezuela journalists airport
Mr Guaidó called demonstrators hold large rallies throughout country scores supporters gathered plaza await arrival
I hope make mistake arresting said Carmen Herrera selling Venezuelan flags demonstrators saying unlikely government would succeed detained I Maduro
American officials said remain vigilant Mr Guaidós safety
On Sunday John R Bolton White House national security adviser said Twitter arrest Mr Guaidó would met response United States international community On Monday administration officials said also cracking Cuba tightening economic embargo island move viewed symbolic aimed Cubas support Venezuela
Over weekend Mr Bolton appeared several television shows explained administrations approach Venezuela He emphasized building coalition replace Mr Maduro providing help Venezuelan citizens displaced turmoil
Despite ramping forceful rhetoric Trump administration officials stayed away idea military intervention recent days instead focusing economic sanctions hope help weaken Mr Maduro supporters
On Friday Elliott Abrams administrations top envoy Venezuela announced new visa restrictions dozens people close Mr Maduro
Mr Guaidó left Venezuela surreptitiously Feb 23 help direct effort bring truckloads emergency aid Venezuela via border crossings Colombia Brazil The effort blocked Mr Maduros armed forces loyalists left Mr Guaidó afoul law Venezuela faced travel ban
The restriction imposed countrys Supreme Court last month Venezuelan attorney general asked investigation violent occurrences happened Mr Guaidó challenged Mr Maduros legitimacy
Last week Juan Carlos Valdéz auxiliary judge Supreme Court told Russias Sputnik news service Mr Guaidó could face 30year prison sentence left country
An earlier version article misidentified Venezuelan political leader risked detention security forces As stated elsewhere article Juan Guaidó Nicolas Maduro
Ana Vanessa Herrero reported Caracas Nicholas Casey Santiago Chile Katie Rogers Washington Ernesto Londoño contributed reporting Rio de Janeiro Rick Gladstone New York



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
White House Memo
By Annie Karni
WASHINGTON President Trump wrapped first day summit meeting Vietnam Kim Jongun North Korean leader back home Washington Michael D Cohen former lawyer fixer takes stand Wednesday morning testify publicly House Oversight Committee
Two nearly simultaneous events two different story lines Mr Trump One involves leader assiduously courted hopes provide minimum example ability make peace United States adversaries The involves former associate already detailed presidents secrets special counsel share American public
The clashing narratives follow become frustrating pattern Mr Trump biggest moments international stage overtaken events home Foreign trips mark critical moments every president But president search evidence support claims strengthened United States position world always successes hoped portray
From first foreign trip president Saudi Arabia 2017 meeting last summer Queen Elizabeth II Mr Trump often found competing coverage new dramatic turn scandals consumed administration
On inaugural trip Mr Trump left White House Riyadh Saudi capital The New York Times reported admitted Russians Oval Office meeting firing FBI director James B Comey took great pressure The Washington Post reported sitting White House official federal investigation possibly colluding Russians 2016 presidential campaign
Mr Trump preparing depart marathon fivecountry tour Asia November 2017 special counsels office made first bombshell indictments bringing charges former campaign manager Paul Manafort well two campaign associates Rick Gates George Papadopoulos The president Davos Switzerland The Times reported Mr Trump ordered firing special counsel Robert S Mueller III overseeing Russia investigation backed White House counsel threatened resign
And honor guard giving Mr Trump royal salute Windsor Castle July deputy attorney general Rod J Rosenstein announced indictment 12 Russian intelligence officers hacking Democratic National Committee Hillary Clintons 2016 presidential campaign
For Mr Trump particularly concerned winning news cycles summit meeting Mr Kim Hanoi Vietnams capital begins Wednesday major opportunity change subject losing fight Democrats funding wall along southwestern border
But 10 pm day Hanoi counternarrative begin Mr Cohen starts testimony House Oversight Committee Mr Trumps alleged payoffs financial disclosures compliance campaign finance laws business matters He also expected deliver raw personal stories 10 years serving Mr Trump
And time coverage Mr Trumps trip abroad threatened subsumed news reports findings Justice Department Democratdominated congressional committee
White House officials said House Democrats deliberately trying step summit meeting Rudolph W Giuliani Mr Trumps personal lawyer said overlapping events coincidence After politicians said text
A spokesman committee chairman Representative Elijah E Cummings Maryland respond multiple requests comment whether scheduling hearing day meeting done intentionally
But Lanny J Davis lawyer Mr Cohen said timing unintentional These dates developed long period time lots stops starts delays Mr Davis said We worry attacked Trump tweets Trump set first reason delay
The overlapping events added inevitable result chaos every day
And fact Mr Cohens testimony rescheduled postponed twice
White House officials played anxiety Mr Cohens testimony would steal spotlight Mr Trump One senior administration official described Mr Cohen convicted criminal already lied Congress said clear headliner day would president trying undo 70 years war neglect
There also question news outlets interrupt coverage meeting president Mr Kim Mr Cohens hearing Fox News already touted exclusive postmeeting interview Mr Trump conducted Sean Hannity cable news host part extensive coverage event
Other current former White House officials said saw silver lining The president tends spend less time Twitter busy overseas less consumed developments pertaining open investigations Mr Cohens testimony might Mr Trump glued television dining room Oval Office home said could pack less punch busy Mr Kim
Still even people natural supporters Mr Trump said timing Mr Cohens hearing unfortunate whether avoidable Its desirable thing president goes abroad hes international summit former lawyer testifying alleged crimes hes committed said Benjamin Wittes editor chief Lawfare friend Mr Comeys
The pattern critics president said simply product number investigations involving Mr Trump overshadowed work home abroad
When campaign transition charity business White House inaugural committee investigation going lot new developments said Matthew Miller former spokesman Obama Justice Department
For White House trying shrug overlap
I dont think president concerns whatsoever Michael Cohen Sarah Huckabee Sanders White House press secretary said last week Fox Friends I think Michael Cohen may need concerned thats certainly something thats influencing bothering us building
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Anatoly Kurmanaev Isayen Herrera
CARACAS Venezuela The Red Cross said Friday received permission Venezuelas government opposition roll one organizations biggest global relief campaigns signaling possible easing dire humanitarian emergency gripping country
The announcement amounted first tacit acknowledgment government Nicolás Maduro Venezuelans suffering lack food basics
In scale ambition relief effort could become operation similar happening Syria said Francesco Rocca president International Federation Red Cross Red Crescent Societies reporters Caracas Friday It obviously solve countrys problems necessary step save lives
Mr Maduro repeatedly denied country needed help even economy hurtled toward collapse The crisis led explosion malnutrition infant mortality resurgence nearly eradicated diseases biggest refugee crisis South America hundreds thousands Venezuelans fled
Update As Venezuelan economy unravels Maduro opponents hope downturn topple
The Red Cross said diplomatic waiver granted Mr Maduro would allow begin delivery medical supplies soon midApril The organizations local affiliate runs hospitals Venezuela organization allowed operate national humanitarian aiddelivery campaign Its Panama warehouse already began procurement Venezuelan mission organization said
Now Red Cross double budget Venezuela equivalent least 60 million year hoping reach 650000 Venezuelans stimulate new wave donations would finance expansion campaign later year
Were open donors said Mr Rocca Were ready negotiate everyone
As Venezuelas economic travails worsened past months Mr Maduro opposition leader Juan Guaidó attempted control supplies aid political advantage Mr Maduro Mr Guaidó locked power struggle since Mr Guaidó proclaimed president support United States 50 countries late January
Mr Maduro used food distribution access medical care tools ensure support among needy population His government stopped publishing health statistics 2016 denying country needed aid
In Venezuelas theres humanitarian crisis Foreign Minister Jorge Arreaza told United Nations February
Venezuelas aid predicament mirrored international alliances forged competing sides The United States European Union nations become main donors humanitarian projects launched Mr Guaidó China Russia delivered relief supplies Mr Maduro
Mr Guaidó opened three aid depots Venezuelas borders Colombia Brazil Curacao collected least 100 million worth supplies donated United States Agency International Development allies Mr Maduro called USAID supplies Trojan horse aimed toppling government vowed prevent entering country His vice president Delcy Rodriguez even called oppositions supplies cancerous
Mr Guaidós plan bring basic supplies Venezuela February intended help population also bolster standing discredit Mr Maduro stymied Mr Maduros armed forces paramilitaries At least seven people killed dozens seriously injured chaotic inconclusive standoff along countrys border
The Red Cross said relief Venezuela linked political parties
To maintain impartiality Red Cross said supplies surgical kits basic medication initially delivered directly eight hospitals organization owns Venezuela bypassing governments distribution networks The organization also aims equip Venezuelan hospitals power generators reduce number deaths caused rolling blackouts affecting country
Mr Rocca said organizations would also consider distributing medical donations collected opposition Cúcuta Colombia met standards
The Red Cross granted permission personal meetings Mr Maduro Mr Guaidó said person involved negotiations spoke condition anonymity authorized discuss confidential talks
The announcement comes days United Nations made confidential plea countrys two rival leaders end political dispute aid pointing nearly countrys population 32 million thrust poverty
Multilateral organizations including affiliated United Nations Catholic Church quietly ramping operations Venezuela recent months unspoken agreement government The deal reached Red Cross allows become first global relief organization launch official campaign inside Venezuela
Now Red Cross allowed government opposition sought take credit decision
Humanitarian aid fact today next hours next days receiving important medical help contain tragedy Mr Guaidó said video address posted social media Friday The government recognized failure accepting existence humanitarian emergency
The government part Friday announced arrival ship carrying medication China
But granting Red Cross humanitarian mandate Mr Maduro exposing critics call hypocrisy social policy said José Félix Oletta former Venezuelan health minister
Its absurd blocked two years entrance resources said They indicating dont capacity resolve
The Red Cross announcement also presents challenge opposition sought present solution countrys humanitarian needs



Advertisement
The streets calm center Caracas day opposition lawmaker Juan Guaidó proclaimed countrys rightful leader last weekCreditCreditMeridith Kohut The New York Times
Supported
By Ana Vanessa Herrero Megan Specia
CARACAS Venezuela Venezuela brink Grocery shelves lie empty food becomes increasingly scarce expensive People fleeing country record rates flooding neighboring countries Inflation set reach 10 million percent 2019
In landscape desperation public outrage already coming head last week Juan Guaidó opposition leader head National Assembly declared interim president The recently reelected President Nicolás Maduro vowed continue
International attention swiftly turned two men center struggle control country But midst political pushandpull average Venezuelans still struggling get country grown increasingly violent food shortages electricity cuts water shortages new normal Deadly crackdowns dissent regular
Antigovernment demonstrations planned Caracas Saturday discontent growing new groups taking streets including staunch supporters Mr Maduro predecessor Hugo Chávez
We asked residents city describe living situation like days factor driving take part demonstrations
The government benefits Mrs Donawa family long relied like many poor neighborhoods Caracas longer enough
We starving said describing son Dixon Bront struggling provide grandchildren He 9yearold daughter 17yearold boy cant buy anything This becoming impossible
Mrs Donawa never voted Mr Maduro Mr Chávez son supporter socialist government
I dont know voted Chávez sympathized said
Mr Bront Mrs Donawa beneficiaries several government programs like Misión Vivienda provides housing poor food distribution program known CLAP
But Mrs Donawa said government food box often limited sugar pasta powdered milk As benefits deteriorated Mr Bront supporter government decided join protesters calling demise
Two weeks ago injured demonstrations shot stomach close range security forces bedridden two surgeries putting strain family
I cant hospital sleeping chair Mrs Donawa said sons bedside Its I agree protesting like Venezuelan unhappy communist government
It like world opens half want jump crack said Mrs Cedeño describing felt six years ago first found son Miguel leukemia
Things still manageable Her son moved private hospital public Central Hospital Venezuela given medical treatment paid state
He went remission years 2017 Miguels cancer returned Thats Mrs Cedeño said everything changed It race time get proper treatment
I buy everything said The chemotherapy antibiotics needles But even worse I buy gloves cotton alcohol water even tubes lab I need ask blood test
Venezuelas main hospital become symbol catastrophic unraveling countrys health care system It often without running water medicine even doctors The electricity regularly cuts resulted patient deaths opposition politicians say
Mrs Cedeño said never fan protests son told eager attend
He said Mom I want go make feel rage I feel everyday I hospital without help said
Mr Balza 35 captain Venezuelan National Guard quickly moved ranks gaining trust officials grew rely including Nicolás Maduro Guerra President Maduros son But didnt always support decisions superiors
I never agreed lines ever said
Two years ago fled Venezuela United States manages company Mr Guaidó interim president proposed amnesty members armed forces willing break Mr Maduros government Mr Barza unsure whether return
I worked inside government Mr Barza said adding didnt necessarily think needed ask amnesty While would like get involved protests held United States doesnt time busy work schedule But first time years sees way forward country
I faith hope said
Mrs Añez knows governments crackdown dissent looks like She arrested May 2017 accused involvement groups organizing daily antigovernment protests
I gave food I offered shelter said That call mamá
For 118 days held windowless room another woman accused gas smuggling After protests ended year Mrs Añez couldnt go back old life saying jail changed
I tell I better person I also knew true evil said
Since latest round protests began last month Mrs Añez scavenged supplies wounded military security forces She treated least three protesters far injured recent demonstrations
Mrs Añez said earlier protests 2014 2017 violent effective
Protests like one 23rd said referring largely peaceful mass antigovernment protests held day Mr Guaidó swore interim president kind cant hide
Born Spain raised Venezuela Mr Zugasti active opposition protest movement since Mr Maduro first came power 2013 He plans join large demonstrations planned weekend
This Saturday I gas mask helmet vest see I show world said
Mr Zugasti owned family printing company two decades enabled provide family But profits dwindled 2018 closed business
He said new people different walks life joining recent protests Before said movement largely driven middle upper classes
I used see face every day different said
Mr Zugasti takes camera protests took one especially memorable photo April 4 2017 young congressman confronting police blocking march Libertador Avenue
He didnt know politician photo Mr Guaidó would become major player countrys current political standoff
Every time I hear someone started politics I know true Mr Zugasti said He always front line protests I remember every demonstration I went
Megan Specia story editor International Desk specializing digital storytelling breaking news meganspecia
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Mark Mazzetti Maggie Haberman
WASHINGTON He spent months inside Park Avenue apartment glued cable news legal bills growing federal prosecutors amassing evidence would use leverage
He watched onetime friend former boss president United States smear Twitter make vague public threats family
His work Donald J Trump lies told sending prison years
On Tuesday law license revoked
On Wednesday Michael D Cohen exacted revenge
It nasty public breakup New York relationship forged decade mix bond father son professional distance lawyer client Mr Cohen associates described blind devotion henchman crime boss
transcript
Hosted Michael Barbaro produced Rachel Quester Alexandra Leigh Young Theo Balcomb edited Lisa Tobin
In extraordinary public hearing Donald Trumps former fixer known unflinchingly loyal became star witness
michael barbaro
From The New York Times Im Michael Barbaro This The Daily Today Michael Cohen headed prison lying behalf Donald Trump Yesterday told Congress hes done protecting president Its Thursday February 28 Maggie Haberman hearing actually begin Wednesday morning
maggie haberman
The hearing began dramatic fashion Elijah Cummings chairs committee Democrat holding gavel Michael Cohen walking crush photographers reporters trailed Lanny Davis attorney sometimes spokesman trailed another attorneys member family I believe worried attending hearing He sat His face wan His eyes puffy He looked exhausted defeated beaten And could hear pin drop sat
archived recording elijah cummings
The committee come order
maggie haberman
So Cummings gate
archived recording elijah cummings
I recognize five minutes give opening statement
maggie haberman
addressed issue Michael Cohens credibility
archived recording elijah cummings
He admitted lying actions protect president Some certainly ask Mr Cohen lying believe
archived recording
Good question
archived recording elijah cummings
This legitimate question
maggie haberman
It clear Republicans going go right Cohen accusing liar somebody admitted lying including admitting lying Congress gave testimony 2017 So Cummings hoping put bed outset
archived recording elijah cummings
This important factor need weigh But must weigh must hear
michael barbaro
And Maggie I found fascinating Cummings close opening statement He delivers message straight Cohen
archived recording elijah cummings
Martin Luther King Mr Cohen said words I leave today testify He said faith taking first step even cant see whole staircase There comes time silence becomes betrayal Our lives begin end day become silent things truly matter In end says remember words enemies silence friends
maggie haberman
And quote hes trying set Michael Cohens testimony hes truthful said lie saying truth And important set way forward hearing began
archived recording elijah cummings
Raise right hand Do swear affirm testimony give whole truth nothing truth help God Let record show witness answered affirmative And thank may seated
maggie haberman
So Michael Cohen begins opening statement And long
archived recording michael cohen
I hope appearance today guilty plea work law enforcement agencies steps along path redemption restore faith help country understand president better
maggie haberman
And began apologizing lying Congress
archived recording michael cohen
I oath correct record answer committees questions truthfully offer American people I know President Trump
maggie haberman
And turned Donald Trump
archived recording michael cohen
I ashamed I chose take part concealing Mr Trumps illicit acts rather listening conscience I ashamed I know Mr Trump
maggie haberman
And depicted Donald Trump unsavory unethical immoral character
archived recording michael cohen
Mr Trump racist The country seen Mr Trump court white supremacists bigots You heard call poorer countries expletive In private even worse He asked I name country run black person wasnt expletive This Barack Obama president United States And driving struggling neighborhood Chicago commented black people could live way And told black people would never vote stupid
maggie haberman
Somebody told Oval Office Oval Office meeting would sending reimbursement hush money payments
archived recording michael cohen
Trump con man He asked pay adult film star affair lie wife I And lying first lady one biggest regrets
maggie haberman
He portrayed Donald Trump cheat
archived recording michael cohen
And come surprise one common responsibilities Mr Trump directed call business owners many small businesses owed money services told payment reduced payment would coming When I told Mr Trump success actually reveled
maggie haberman
As schemer would inflate net worth devalue depending useful various points
archived recording michael cohen
It experience Mr Trump inflated total assets served purposes trying listed amongst wealthiest people Forbes deflated assets reduce real estate taxes
maggie haberman
At one point Michael Cohen told detailed story Donald Trumps relationship Vietnam War Remember Donald Trump said deferment draft quote unquote bone spurs
archived recording michael cohen
But I asked medical records gave none said surgery He told answer specific questions reporters rather offer simply fact received medical deferment He finished conversation following comment Do think Im stupid Im going Vietnam
maggie haberman
And moment Michael Cohen looked directly camera
archived recording michael cohen
And I find ironic Mr President Vietnam right
michael barbaro
Right
maggie haberman
It damning stuff
archived recording michael cohen
A lot people asked whether Mr Trump knew release hacked documents Democratic National Committee emails ahead time And answer yes In July 2016 days Democratic Convention I Mr Trumps office secretary announced Roger Stone phone Mr Trump put Mr Stone speakerphone Mr Stone told Mr Trump gotten phone Julian Assange Mr Assange told Mr Stone within couple days would massive dump emails would damage Hillary Clintons campaign Mr Trump responded stating effect wouldnt great
michael barbaro
And brings course nowinfamous Moscow project
maggie haberman
Right
archived recording michael cohen
I lied Congress Mr Trump stopped negotiating Moscow tower project Russia I stated stopped negotiating January 2016 That false Our negotiations continued months later campaign
maggie haberman
He says know handful conversations went 2016 clear Donald Trump going Republican nominee
archived recording michael cohen
Mr Trump directly tell lie Congress Thats operates In conversations campaign time I actively negotiating Russia would look eye tell Theres Russian business go lie American people saying thing In way telling lie So clear Mr Trump knew directed Trump Moscow negotiations throughout campaign lied
michael barbaro
Cohens almost describing moment code Trump saying Russia project almost like saying theres Russia project right Youre never going say theres Russia project Its like hes trying explain foreign language Donald Trump communicating probably lie without say
maggie haberman
Thats exactly right And said testimony made clear Donald Trump talks He sort knows line doesnt speak overtly It former federal prosecutors described mob speak style mafia bosses speak avoid crossing legal line And Michael Cohen explicitly say part say Donald Trump spoke code Michael Cohen understood code
archived recording michael cohen
He doesnt give questions He doesnt give orders He speaks code And I understand code Ive around decade
michael barbaro
Maggie come surprise hear Michael Cohen saying Youve known men years And youve known unit What like hear Cohen saying things Donald Trump
maggie haberman
Even knowing coming mindblowing hearing Michael Cohen saying public No one worked Trump recent years gone record say things like And staggering And odds portrait fealty Michael Cohen presented reporters everyone toward Donald Trump decade
michael barbaro
Mmhmm
maggie haberman
And remember Donald Trump creates eagerness people around get something head pat get encouragement get attaboy Cohen got skilled trying attaboy
michael barbaro
And seemed kind addicted
maggie haberman
And seemed addicted seemed revel clearly reveled proximity
archived recording michael cohen
Over past year I done real soulsearching And I see ambition intoxication Trump power much bad decisions part I made
maggie haberman
He involved taking care messes Donald Trump wanted taken care He willing things One payoffs women And notion somebody closely involved would willing discuss publicly behind closed doors investigators prosecutors bearing freely public hearing oath breathtaking
michael barbaro
Theres moment Cohen says members committee
archived recording michael cohen
The last time I appeared Congress I came protect Mr Trump Today
michael barbaro
Today Im tell truth
archived recording michael cohen
I tell truth Mr Trump
michael barbaro
Mr Trump As say spell broken Im world And I kind wonder thats really possible also happened
maggie haberman
Well I think really possible I think break incredibly clean given happened Michael Cohen Remember FBI raided hotel apartment office April 2018 still standing Trump That clearly changed We saw Republicans argue reason changed Michael Cohen facing charges And president certainly suggested Cohen utterly stripped everything valued business law license He humiliated publicly He abandoned lot friends president presidents circle And I think certainly real split I think people going assess looking testimony whether think real conversion definitely real break
archived recording michael cohen
I perfect man I done things I proud And I live consequences actions rest life But today I get decide example I set children I attempt change history remember I may able change past I right American people today And I thank attention And Im happy answer committees questions
archived recording elijah cummings
Thank much Mr Cohen I recognize
michael barbaro
So questions begin committee members
maggie haberman
Right
archived recording elijah cummings
You said brought checks right
archived recording michael cohen
Yes sir
maggie haberman
And first Cummings asking Cohen elaborate details reimbursement checks got brought
archived recording elijah cummings
So let make sure I understand Donald Trump wrote check personal account serving president United States America reimburse hush money payments Ms Clifford telling American people today
archived recording michael cohen
Yes Mr Chairman
maggie haberman
And among dramatic moments saw Because Cummings getting fact sitting president part scheme minimum sleazy illicit maximum could criminal exposure And leaving nothing doubt Cohen saying took place
archived recording elijah cummings
Is doubt mind President Trump knew exactly paying
archived recording michael cohen
There doubt mind And I truly believe doubt minds people United States America
archived recording elijah cummings
With Ill yield
maggie haberman
Jim Jordan another ally president quoted something Michael Cohen said reporter The Daily Beast
archived recording jim jordan
I make sure I meet one day courthouse I take every penny still dont
maggie haberman
And become famous anecdote threatened reporter pursuing story old court claim divorce filing Ivana Trump Donald Trump alleged marital rape And Cohen said
archived recording jim jordan
And I come Daily Beast everybody else possibly know So Im warning
maggie haberman
So Im warning tread fing lightly wasnt fing
archived recording jim jordan
Because Im going going fing disgusting understand
maggie haberman
And asked Jim Jordan Mr Cohen said
archived recording jim jordan
Mr Cohen said
archived recording michael cohen
I
maggie haberman
And incident I think would say really Trump But way sully character create portrait thuggishness
archived recording jim jordan
And say Mr Cohen statement I read admitted saying protect Donald Trump
archived recording michael cohen
I protect Mr Trump Donald Trump Jr Ivanka Trump Eric Trump
michael barbaro
But I wonder look worse person person whose behalf done
maggie haberman
Right I understand Jim Jordan trying muddy Michael Cohen But I think people going look especially president takes Twitter suggests people ought looking Michael Cohens family I think people still going see looking worse Trump Michael Cohen Trumps lawyer
michael barbaro
So Republicans largely avoiding talking president costs hearing focusing sullying Cohens character reputation may actually sullying President Trumps
maggie haberman
Correct They essentially trying peel Cohen Trump And became clear efforts went throughout hearing impossible When somebody serve lawyer Donald Trump identified publicly 10 years cant take shot Cohen end ricochet onto Trump
archived recording
So weve established lie taxes lie banks convicted lying Congress It seems theres much wont lie stand gain
michael barbaro
And questions go
maggie haberman
So
archived recording
Everythings made lies past Im concerned lies today
maggie haberman
After became know
archived recording
But theres truth whatsoever
maggie haberman
one one line Republicans suggesting Michael Cohen
archived recording
Liar liar pants fire
maggie haberman
Really fame
archived recording
Is appearance today motivated desire remain spotlight personal benefit
archived recording michael cohen
No maam
maggie haberman
Or really money They asked
archived recording
Is book deal coming anything like
archived recording michael cohen
I book deal right
maggie haberman
One prospective book deals movie deals
archived recording
Isnt true tried sell book time President Trump entitled Trump Revolution From Tower White House Understanding Donald J Trump
archived recording michael cohen
Yes happened
maggie haberman
Or pitched book
michael barbaro
And say
maggie haberman
He said yes
archived recording michael cohen
I contacted many including television movie If want tell would like play Im happy write name
michael barbaro
And Democrats
archived recording elijah cummings
Mr Raskin
archived recording jamie raskin
Mr Cohen thank composure today Our colleagues upset lied Congress president Theyre upset youve stopped lying Congress president
maggie haberman
The Democrats tried keep really mostly Trump things Michael Cohen Trump
archived recording
And nothing Trump Organization ever done unless run President Donald Trump correct
archived recording michael cohen
Thats 100 percent certain
archived recording
OK
maggie haberman
He described really interesting described everybody solely devoted protecting brand reputation one man Donald Trump He said nothing happened company unless Donald Trump aware signed He argued Trump demanding exacting punishing boss He described entire effort maximizing goldplated version Donald Trump become familiar
archived recording
Theres recurring refrain testimony says yet I continued work But point changed What breaking point decided start telling truth
archived recording michael cohen
There several factors Helsinki Charlottesville
maggie haberman
He went litany moments said disgusted There presidents comments Charlottesville know various instance discourteous behavior president untoward behavior toward citizens
archived recording michael cohen
Watching daily destruction civility one another putting silly things like
archived recording
Oh thats silly
archived recording michael cohen
Really unbecoming Congress
maggie haberman
He clearly got angry And sort turned back Republicans said essentially
archived recording michael cohen
Its sort behavior Im responsible Im responsible silliness Because I thing youre 10 years I protected Mr Trump 10 years
maggie haberman
You I You blindly following And real risk could end like someday
archived recording michael cohen
And I warn people people follow Mr Trump I blindly going suffer consequences Im suffering
maggie haberman
It gripping captivating moment
michael barbaro
Right sort surprising level selfawareness I guess also selfloathing
maggie haberman
It It selfeffacing It clearly uncomfortable It acknowledging deeply imperfect person imperfect things proud said version earlier hearing But really striking comment Republicans opposed Donald Trump theyre many vocal anymore said repeatedly Republican Party become cult personality cult And people blindly follow along Donald Trump wants whether wise whether safe whether telling truth And Cohen getting
archived recording
What want children know
archived recording michael cohen
That Im sorry everything And Im sorry pain Ive caused And um I wish I could go back time
archived recording
Thank I yield back
archived recording elijah cummings
The gentleladys time expired
michael barbaro
Maggie I wonder feel like understand whats motivating Michael Cohen throughout hourslong hearing say hes saying concede hes conceding kind humble way Hes convicted crime Hes headed prison He disbarred What exactly animating point
maggie haberman
I think number things animating But I think among doesnt want leper story forever He said months ago want villain Trump story And I think thats feels I think want remembered footnote history I think hes going prison And I think doesnt whole lot left lose And I think would like try make people remember things tell nuanced tale
michael barbaro
And hearing mind achieve How hearing remembered larger story
maggie haberman
I think hearing either going breathtaking historical moment likes I dont know well ever see But pretty striking see Or going initial phases much broader deeper governmental investigation House Democrats Trump presidency personal activities activities government And allowing Michael Cohen setting talks things questioned key starting witness could first step paving way toward impeachment process Democrats go If ends leading something bigger Democrats feel key foundation But early say I think
archived recording michael cohen
I closing remarks I would like say Is appropriate time
archived recording elijah cummings
You
archived recording michael cohen
Thank
michael barbaro
Maggie one hearing finally come end
maggie haberman
Seven half hours Michael Cohen first entered room sitting pretty patiently questions losing temper given opportunity speak committee members president
archived recording michael cohen
In closing Id like say directly president honor veterans even rain You tell truth even doesnt aggrandize
maggie haberman
And used opportunity send message former boss saying dont need person
archived recording michael cohen
You take responsibility dirty deeds You dont use power bully pulpit destroy credibility speak You dont separate families one another demonize looking America better life You dont vilify people based God pray And dont cuddle adversaries expense allies
maggie haberman
And saying president I know saying members committee believe I say I understand man
archived recording michael cohen
So support president rhetoric I I pray country doesnt make mistakes I made pay heavy price family I paying And I thank much additional time Chairman
archived recording elijah cummings
Thank much
maggie haberman
And Michael Cohen done Elijah Cummings closed note grace toward Michael Cohen
archived recording elijah cummings
So wonder whether people believe I dont know I dont know whether believe But fact youve come head And got one hardest things could
maggie haberman
That moment Michael Cohen started crying And really hadnt done He clearly weeping
archived recording elijah cummings
I know face lot I know worried family But part destiny
maggie haberman
And Cummings basically told Cohen You heading toward light moment
archived recording elijah cummings
And hopefully portion destiny lead better better Michael Cohen better Donald Trump better United States America better world
michael barbaro
Maggie thank much We appreciate
maggie haberman
Michael thanks
archived recording elijah cummings
And got get back normal With meeting adjourned MUSIC PLAYING
michael barbaro
Well right back Heres else need know today On Wednesday Pakistan said shot two Indian fighter jets captured pilot one latest escalation hostilities two countries The attack heightening fears decadesold animosities India Pakistan could spiral war The latest episode began February 14th jihadis operating Pakistan killed 40 Indian soldiers prompting airstrikes India military response Pakistan
archived recording
NONENGLISH SPEECH Bomb blast victims INAUDIBLE
michael barbaro
In speech Wednesday prime minister Pakistan urged restraint citing two countries arsenals nuclear weapons saying quote All big wars due miscalculation My question India given weapons afford miscalculation
archived recording
NONENGLISH SPEECH
michael barbaro
And North Carolina Wednesday campaign operative center allegations election fraud McCrae Dallas arrested indicted handling absentee ballots 2016 2018 Dallas collected absentee ballots Republican congressional candidate Mark Harris last fall charged obstruction justice possession absentee ballots As result Dallas conduct North Carolina hold new election 9th congressional district Harris hired Dallas withdrawn race MUSIC PLAYING Thats The Daily Im Michael Barbaro See tomorrow
People follow Mr Trump I blindly going suffer consequences Im suffering told packed hearing House Committee Oversight Reform blunt warning congressional Republicans said assumed role Mr Trumps protectors played years
During hours lurid testimony presidents onceloyal lawyer fixer recalled shady business deals racist comments spoke devastating uncomfortable detail private conversations man idolized still refers Mr Trump
Michael D Cohen former lawyer fixer President Donald J Trump took stand Wednesday morning testify publicly Mr Trump House Oversight Committee
Mr Trump inflated value assets documents given Deutsche Bank Mr Cohen testified
Such deference keep painting damning portrait president including Mr Trumps attempts dodge Vietnam War service efforts strongarm academic institutions making grades public There routine indignities like president put Mr Cohen phone first lady lie hush money payment Stormy Daniels pornographic film star Mr Trump alleged affair
Mr Cohen described Mr Trump con man cheat estimated might 500 occasions directly threatened someone behest boss He Mr Trumps enforcer role seemed relish
If somebody something Mr Trump doesnt like I everything power resolve Mr Trumps benefit told interviewer 2011 If something wrong Im going come grab neck Im going let go Im finished
More recently Mr Cohen agreed tell prosecutors hushmoney payments 2016 election presidents turn use Mafiosos description formerly loyal aide He called rat
Such vernacular two men honed years spent navigating gritty potentially lucrative New York industries construction real estate taxicabs At hearing Mr Cohen gave House panel tutorial sorts folkways New York ecosystem Mr Trump thrived
On day Mr Cohen star witness congressional hearing devised exhume presidents past Mr Trump thousands miles away preparing summit meeting North Koreas leader hoping would lend gravitas embattled presidency distract taking place back home
For Mr Cohen man walked hallways Trump Organization pistol strapped ankle seemed bask Mr Trumps reflected glory Wednesday moment absorb light
Michael would describe something akin cult said Donny Deutsch advertising executive friend Mr Cohen Michael got sucked And life shambles And hes first one say
The relationship two men began way many Mr Trumps relationships act fealty
In 2006 residents Trump World Tower gleaming glass tower near United Nations pushing strip Mr Trumps name building take control buildings management
Mr Cohen former personal injury lawyer made millions New York City taxicab business intervened Mr Trumps son Donald Jr asked help Mr Cohen already bought several condominiums Trump buildings persuaded family friends twice read Mr Trumps book The Art Deal He helped Mr Trump put East Side rebellion orchestrating coup removed revolting tenants condominium board Mr Trump took notice
In ways unequal relationship two men different ages different upbringings vastly different financial circumstances Mr Cohen son Holocaust survivor 40 years old began working Mr Trump 20 years elder son real estate magnate would inherit millions dollars fathers money
But Mr Cohen comfortable upbringing Lawrence Long Island dozen miles house Queens Mr Trump raised And like future boss Mr Cohen combined raw business savvy help family member case fatherinlaw make mark boroughs outside Manhattan
Mr Cohen soon Trump Organization employee put charge disparate elements Mr Trumps business empire In 2008 became chief operating officer Affliction Entertainment venture started Mr Trump bring mixed martial arts fights payperview audience
Im nearly speechless knowing Mr Trump Affliction trust event features greatest assembly MMA fighters one show MMA history Mr Cohen said news release announcing new position adding coming event like Ali Frazier Tyson Holyfield top heavyweights boxing card
Working Mr Trump told lawmakers Wednesday intoxicating
When presence said felt like involved something greater somehow changing world
He tried appeal boss embodying qualities Mr Trump admired mentor Roy Cohn A Bronxborn lawyer Mr Cohn rose prominence working Senator Joseph McCarthys antiCommunist crusade spent years Mr Trumps lawyer Like Mr Cohen disbarred unethical conduct
Wednesdays congressional hearing focusing part much Trump knew hush money payments proposed Trump Tower Moscow
Roy brutal loyal guy Mr Trump told biographer He brutalized
Over time Mr Cohen learned Mr Trump liked business
He doesnt give questions doesnt give orders said Wednesday He speaks code I understand code Ive around decade
In 2011 Mr Cohen began scouting prospects another brawl possible presidential run Mr Trump 2012 He traveled Iowa accompanied Mr Trump speech Conservative Political Action Conference acted like bar bouncer keeping reporters away celebrity boss Mr Cohen set website called ShouldTrumpRunorg
He But almost immediately presidential race Mr Cohen began compiling information boss next time He kept thick binder desk Trump Tower packed information filing deadlines different states 2016 election campaign minutiae
But shunted sidelines campaign began prohibited Mr Trumps children political operatives making daytoday campaign decisions He pursued business ventures Mr Trump including ambitious idea building tallest skyscraper Moscow emblazoned Trump name
Trying gain access influential figures Moscow Mr Cohen turned Felix Sater Russian immigrant felon FBI informant helped Mr Trump development deals explored various ventures Russia
This effort became central focus investigation Robert S Mueller III special counsel examining Russias attempts sabotage 2016 election role Mr Trumps advisers played coordinating Moscow And lies Mr Cohen told negotiations put even legal jeopardy
On Wednesday apologized lawmakers lying different congressional panel 2017 said Trump Tower Moscow negotiations ended January 2016 first presidential primaries In fact continued months longer
To clear said Mr Trump knew directed Trump Moscow negotiations throughout campaign lied He lied never expected win He also lied stood make hundreds millions dollars Moscow real estate project
And I lied added
After election Mr Trump brought many longtime confidants White House Mr Cohen left behind He disappointed remained loyal backbencher raising money Mr Trumps reelection fund publicly attacking celebrities like Snoop Dogg Johnny Depp antiTrump comments
Republicans Wednesdays hearing tried cast Mr Cohen embittered former aide trying get payback excluded White House job On Twitter Mr Trumps son Eric said Mr Cohen known within campaign seeking job
Mr Cohen insisted past two years Wednesday never interest moving Washington uprooting family giving job Mr Trumps personal lawyer He said Mr Trump wanted White House job upset work
Regardless actual circumstances Mr Cohens absence administration created distance Mr Cohen Mr Trump would become chasm
When FBI agents raided Mr Cohens office apartment last April carting years business records emails documents Mr Cohen relied first instinct would flip
He took least one call Mr Trump urged stay strong His lawyers strategized presidents Mr Trump praised insisted former fixer lawyer would never cooperate prosecutors
That would change July legal problems mounted friends urged take fall Mr Trump He changed Twitter bio page removing mention Mr Trumps personal lawyer move people close said deliberate signal independence
Around time officials Mr Trumps company began balk paying Mr Cohens legal fees
He pleaded guilty August financial crimes guilty plea implicated former boss scheme pay hush money two women 2016 election
It extraordinary turn oncedevoted soldier decision Mr Cohen Wednesday described catharsis
I lied I liar I done bad things I bad man said hushed room
I fixed things But I longer fixer Mr Trump
An earlier version article misstated name building Michael D Cohen put rebellion tenants It Trump World Tower Trump World Plaza


OpinionNoah Bookbinder
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Republicans attack credibility charges specific persuasive backed strong evidence
By Noah Bookbinder
Mr Bookbinder executive director Citizens Responsibility Ethics Washington
In daylong testimony House Oversight Committee Wednesday Michael Cohen President Trumps former attorney made several devastating revelations president revelations portend new era accountability president close associates It big day first many
Mr Cohens claims true add evidence Mr Trump campaign prior knowledge Russia may interfering 2016 election nothing stop Mr Cohen testified Mr Trumps office Roger Stone called told Mr Trump spoken Julian Assange editor WikiLeaks told Mr Stone would massive dump emails would damage Hillary Clintons campaign
Those emails hacked members Russian military intelligence shared WikiLeaks first release occurred precisely Mr Stone apparently told Mr Trump would During period Trump campaign sought accepted multiple meetings Russialinked individuals claimed damaging information Ms Clinton If collusion Mr Trump frequently claims lack trying
But Mr Cohens damaging revelations related Mr Trumps personal involvement potential criminal conspiracy violate campaign finance laws cover offenses This possible conspiracy subject comprehensive report issued Citizens Responsibility Ethics Washington watchdog organization I direct In report detail Mr Trump could personally liable unlawful campaign contributions form payments involving Mr Cohen silence women claimed affairs Mr Trump These potential violations small matter Rather appear committed purpose suppressing negative stories central issue campaign Mr Trumps attitudes toward alleged mistreatment women
Mr Cohen testified doubt Mr Trump knew payments candidate Trump directed use personal funds home equity line credit avoid money traced back could negatively impact campaign The decision pay Stephanie Clifford known Stormy Daniels silence directly followed revelation Access Hollywood video Mr Trump claimed sexually assaulted women Mr Cohen testified Mr Trump decided make payment Ms Clifford Mr Trump worried second scandal would negatively affect chances winning election
The compelling evidence produced Mr Cohen Wednesday anything said two documents produced copies two 35000 checks received 2017 one signed Allen Weisselberg chief financial officer Trump Organization Donald Trump Jr President Trump With nine payments course year Mr Cohen reimbursed Trump Organization President Trump money Mr Cohen spent pay Ms Clifford silence The payments also included 60000 bonus Mr Cohen presumably reward loyalty
These checks key They corroborate Mr Cohens testimony provide hard evidence Mr Trump senior executives Trump Organization knew committed overt acts furtherance conspiracy violate campaign finance law cover violations Additionally checks evidence Mr Trump knowingly made false statement failed report liability Mr Cohen personal financial disclosure form June 2017 This potential felony committed Mr Trump president
Mr Cohen explained confident Mr Trump would repay 131000 Mr Cohen borrowed name quoting conversation Mr Trump White House February 2017 Mr Cohen testified President Trump said Dont worry Michael January February reimbursement checks coming They FedExed New York takes get White House system
Mr Trumps intent influence election directing contributions would crucial part potential prosecution felony campaign finance violations Mr Cohens testimony substantial powerful evidence President Trump understood liability Mr Cohen beginning presidency Mr Trump acted requisite intent subjected prosecution criminal campaign finance violations
Although Mr Cohens credibility repeatedly came attack presidents allies committee many reasons trust Mr Cohen said today Many important claims backed documents federal prosecutors Manhattan access millions records least 12 recordings Mr Trump seized searches Mr Cohens office home hotel room last spring After prosecutions Mr Cohen knows well costs lying
Our constitutional order set instill within every citizen belief public service base public trust Mr Cohens testimony adds growing evidence President Trump violated sacred trust failing report foreign interference 2016 election violating federal campaign finance law win 2016 election lying American people government cover offenses became president What consequences follow facts established much question Congress American people federal prosecutors
Noah Bookbinder executive director Citizens Responsibility Ethics Washington
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Screenland
By Carina Chocano
The level attention surrounding Alexandria OcasioCortez measure extraordinary bordering Kardashiangrade This goes positive negative attention feel like selfserving projection accurate representation OcasioCortez shes
The congresswoman become handy versatile symbol representative representative For leftward younger wings Democratic Party serves figurehead hero conservative media outlets reliable outrage bait Everyone seems willing let lightning rod including notably OcasioCortez
Its easy absorb much static At first really really really hard recently told Vanity Fair I felt like I physically ripped apart first two three months But OcasioCortezs acknowledgment attention incorporated public persona kind running metacommentary fame spin bias also handy way channel useful directions Take instance lowly clip routine congressional testimony House Committee Oversight Reform hearing HR 1 bill involving campaign finance ethics rules recently went viral generating well 40 million views
There nothing especially dramatic bombshell revelations combative exchanges emotional outbursts On contrary OcasioCortez calm upbeat pleasant framing questions kind game lightning round limits campaignfinance rules Casting hypothetical villain enlisting witnesses coconspirators described legislative system reduced special interests corrupt zerosum competition Im gon na bad guy says video Which Im sure half room would agree anyway And I want get away much bad things possible ideally enrich advance interests even means putting interests ahead American people
Criticism OcasioCortez often come wrapped dismissiveness early attacks especially hinged ease Americans might persuaded see young woman political outsider unserious unprepared even vapid At start year clip dancing style The Breakfast Club taken video made undergraduate circulated gleefully image younger self dancing would undermine legitimacy legislator Until quite recently protocol woman subjected attacks rise brushing negative attention even positive projecting air occupied stolid competent work But OcasioCortez thus far found interesting reactions Her response circulation video wasnt strike mature pose filmed legislator dancing front office
Part makes congressional questioning HR 1 interesting doesnt try play qualities used mock attack If anything harnesses rhetorical effect Being dismissed young inexperienced female turns something shes quite good
Its mode questioning especially unusual She wants demonstrate easy current law unscrupulous people hijack legislative process like countless legislators attorneys uses friendly witnesses make argument She asks lengthy essentially rhetorical questions occasionally prompts experts confirm shes saying correct This method familiar enough anyone ever watched television rhetorical flourishes feigned naïveté false modesty handwringing solemnity devices enacted benefit audience
And yet tone completely different OcasioCortez doesnt pretend take moral high ground strive clinical prosecutorial demeanor She fun At least one reason video watched 40 million times opted pretense game embracing youthful speech breezy chipper tone
So green light hush money I sorts terrible things Its totally legal right pay people considered speech That money considered speech So I use specialinterest darkmoneyfunded campaign pay folks I need pay get elected So Im elected Now Im Ive got power draft lobby shape laws govern United States America Fabulous
By playing game exposes game way law allows behavior average person might consider corrupt face Its already super legal weve seen pretty bad guy concludes prompted witnesses confirm And top game course trickier one The rest committee asked indulge whatif scenario describes actual rules elected But citing realworld details would break spell plunging whole thing mire accusations With lowstakes hypothetical hey guys lets pretend someone incredibly want exploit system OcasioCortez bends air wideeyed innocence advantage If really frivolous unwelcome interloper serious affairs upside youd excused pretend rules serious affairs actually work Youd free 2019 version Elle Woods Legally Blonde charmingly turning peoples underestimation
Its strange artifact OcasioCortezs attentionmagnetism hypotheticals corruption might ended garnering attention emotion corruption But theres anything shown amazing skill knowing manage channel attention let air turn back whoever paid It makes old model keeping head rising seem distinctly old Amid furious echo chambers modern media failing acknowledge absurd image failing laugh hit back online hurt helps A caricature Hillary Clinton instance seemed obscure entirely feeding silence There arent many models woman particular respond attacks antipathy without looked fragile shrill weak vain full grievance
OcasioCortez finding one Todays fray vicious stay handy Photoshop social media full noise undivided legitimate sources illegitimate ones Its mosh pit There dignified attending business mosh pit You keep elbows ready dance
Carina Chocano author You Play Girl contributing writer magazine
Sign newsletter get best The New York Times Magazine delivered inbox every week
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
The April 9 election opportunity left present moral alternative take stand democracy
By Ayman Odeh
Mr Odeh leads Joint List thirdlargest bloc Israels parliament Knesset chairman Hadash Party
HAIFA Israel I sitting familys home Haifa 1984 I watched man seat Knesset appear television In Americanaccented Hebrew reiterated cornerstone campaign platform All Arabs must expelled land force necessary In televised campaign advertisement party declared In name God Israel Arabs must go I 9 years old Palestinian Arab citizen Israel This man Meir Kahane wanted gone
Thirtyfive years later I still Mr Kahanes party banned Israels High Court 1988 declared terrorist organization 1994 And I lead Hadash Party past four years Joint List representing Palestinian citizens Israel Knesset Mr Kahanes adherents still party explicitly pledges allegiance vision made successful bid Knesset since
That looks like change year
On Feb 20 I sat 10yearold son Tayeb family home Haifa watched news reports new Kahanist party called Jewish Power advocates ethnic cleansing throughout country whose leader 2012 openly called erasure Gaza incorporated joined two extremist political parties run general election April 9 It seems likely theyll take seats members next Knesset
In 1984 even rightwing members Knesset left room Mr Kahane stood speak The prime minister time Yitzhak Shamir rightwing Likud Party said would absolutely refuse allow Mr Kahane coalition even cost government Now Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu opening doors Knesset welcoming Kahanists inside
Perhaps shouldnt come surprise Mr Netanyahus rule decade office increasingly racist Last year enacted NationState Law legalized certain forms racial discrimination officially transformed Arab population Israel secondclass citizens Hes perfectly willing embrace violent radical extremists including antiSemitic rightwing authoritarians like Prime Minister Viktor Orban Hungary long appear support unrepentant aggression indefinite occupation West Bank
Moreover Mr Netanyahu needs every extremist vote get stay office He enters elections charges fraud bribery breach public trust hanging head He faces new serious challenge center Hes willing go length maintain control government demonizing Arabs branding media enemy people even relying Kahanists win majority
If defeat dangerous alliance must provide clear alternative The way left prevail choose solidarity shared JewishArab struggle peace equality democracy
Palestinian Arab citizens Israel represent 20 percent population We change course country alone But electoral math leads victory centerleftwing coalition without participation Arab parties The centerleft parties vying unseat Mr Netanyahu surely understand math Yet stubbornly insist coalition government rely Arab parties people represent
This hasnt always case In 1990s support parties representing Palestinian Arab citizens Israel saved government Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin collapse While didnt officially join coalition two Arab ArabJewish parties created outside bloc allowed Rabin remain prime minister exchange unprecedented role policymaking This one effective periods history Arab parties Knesset They able help bring real gains Palestinian citizens Israel including recognition incorporation villages Galilee preventing Israeli government confiscating Palestinian lands Jerusalem boosting budgets Arab municipalities
This also significant period peace process Parties representing Palestinian citizens Israel played important role time government negotiating Israels recognition Palestine Liberation Organization return Palestinian recognition existence State Israel signing Oslo accords exiting Gaza Jericho
These political policy achievements significant enough Arab participation also contributed coincided culture different todays I remember period Oslo Accords time great hope feeling peace air It brought us closer Arabs Jews made us brief moment feel though belonged We werent able end occupation create full equality But first time political force could ignored
Since time Mr Netanyahu allies right understood Palestinian citizens Israel part solution chosen make us problem In election like Rabin years centerleft coalition capture enough seats form government without Arab parties support
No one understands better Mr Netanyahu everything make case legitimate government depend Arabs Indeed one favorite talking points biggest challengers Benny Gantz Yair Lapid government include parties represent Arabs
But instead challenging racist fundamentally antidemocratic notion centerleft parties reinforced Mr Lapid promised We wont form government Arab parties Even Avi Gabbay Labor Party became party leader 2017 declared definitively We share government Joint List period
This politically foolish But equally important misses great opportunity model shared future want children If centerleft parties believe Palestinian citizens Israel place country must accept place politics We build shared future relegated back seats Knesset chamber Only diverse principled leftwing bloc political power moral might create real alternative country
Ayman Odeh ayodeh leads Joint List thirdlargest bloc Israels parliament Knesset chairman Hadash Party
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ian Austen
OTTAWA Canadas top public servant accused improperly pressing former attorney general settle corruption case involving major corporation resigned Monday Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tried put month political turmoil behind
It fourth prominent resignation related scandal since last month
In parliamentary testimony Jody WilsonRaybould stepped justice minister attorney general singled Michael Wernick public servant making called veiled threats steer toward using new law impose hefty financial penalty rather criminal conviction SNCLavalin Montreal company accused bribery Libya
A criminal conviction would barred company government work decade led Mr Trudeau others fear loss Canadian jobs
Mr Wernick career public servant whose role clerk Privy Council supposed impartial nonpartisan denied acting improperly making threats testimony front Parliament Public appearances clerk rare past clerks generally guarded careful comments job ensure government workers carry laws passed politicians
But Mr Wernicks two appearances discuss SNCLavalin parliamentary committee anything
In first round Mr Wernick lectured committee members sees overheated political rhetoric country
I worry rising tide incitements violence people use terms like treason traitor open discourse said referring terms used social media critics Mr Trudeaus actions SNCLavalin affair Those words lead assassination Im worried somebody going shot country year political campaign
Read Justin Trudeau ensnared SNCLavalin scandal
Opposition politicians said afterward Mr Wernicks actions involving Ms WilsonRaybould comments political state nation improper public servant position One member New Democratic Party Charlie Angus asked Mr Trudeau letter demand Mr Wernick resign
It expected Mr Wernick public service 38 years would retire soon federal election October But resignation letter Mr Trudeau Monday said recent events led conclude I serve clerk Privy Council secretary cabinet upcoming election campaign apparent path relationship mutual trust respect leaders opposition parties
The clerk key figure transition government changes hands election Mr Wernick also recently appointed group tasked looking signs foreign interference coming campaign
It clear Mr Wernicks retirement take effect chief public servant department international affairs named replacement
In addition Mr Wernick Ms WilsonRaybould Gerald Butts Mr Trudeaus close friend stepped prime ministers top political aide Jane Philpott another cabinet minister resigned solidarity Ms WilsonRaybould although two former ministers still sitting Liberals Parliament
Early Monday Mr Trudeau named Joyce Murray longtime Liberal member Parliament British Columbia replace Ms Philpott president Treasury Board
Both Mr Butts Mr Trudeau insisted requests others Ms WilsonRaybould look possibility settlement neither excessive improper In end order prosecutors seek settlement company still going court
The justice part Ms WilsonRayboulds old job clearly political But decisions attorney general supposed made without political considerations mind
Some countries notably Britain separate two roles reason
Before Mr Wernick quit Monday Mr Trudeau announced Anne McLellan served justice minister attorney general another Liberal government 1997 2002 would review dual post make recommendations end June



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Canada Letter
By Ian Austen
While controversy surrounding Prime Minister Justin Trudeau former cabinet minister Jody WilsonRaybould criminal case SNCLavalin preoccupied Canadians month last week seemed capture international attention
Weve reporting story less beginning And throughout time broad differences emerged responses Canada American readers While online comments may necessarily reflect general public opinion many Canadians wrote didnt seem accept Mr Trudeaus assessment one government anything improper
Want Canada Letter newsletter inbox every week Sign
Heres one take events Ellen Buckley reader Toronto
This erosion trust mentioned Justin Trudeau based fact Jody WilsonRaybould responding pressure others putting interfere SNCLavalin case So removed post
I would argue intended replace someone would respond differently way wanted SNCLavalin case managed
This issue going away
But many American readers noted despite attempts Mr Trudeau others settle criminal case SNCLavalin large fine prosecution continues Combined fact one pocketed money obviously benefited politically readers seem puzzled issue created much political turmoil Canada particularly contrasted current upheaval Washington
Heres excerpt comment user going astaritt lives Washington
So learn Trudeau saint politician dare nobody acted personal profit company go unpunished With permission I think I continue envy Canadas political life
To sure Canadians said support government readers outside country endorsed Mr Trudeau aides
For catching heres reporting past week controversy inconveniently far failed develop widely accepted shorthand name
Will Canadian Women Turn Their Backs Their Feminist Prime Minister A story many women characterize group mostly men ganging female cabinet minister may undermined Mr Trudeaus standing female voters
An Unapologetic Trudeau Speaks Up Political Crisis Rattling Canada Mr Trudeau made saying sorry regular ritual time office declined public statement controversy Thursday
Trudeaus ExAdviser Close Friend Denies Pressuring Canadas Justice Minister Criminal Case Early scandal Gerald Butts Mr Trudeaus longtime friend quit top political aide Though outsider first person week testify governments version events
Friend Adviser Witness Trudeaus Fate Could Hinge Confidants Testimony They college friends canoeing pals one anothers wedding parties Read profile Gerald Butts
2nd Trudeau Minister Resigns Canadas Political Crisis Swells Things hit new low Liberals start week Jane Philpott highly respected minister quit cabinet solidarity Ms WilsonRaybould
How Justin Trudeau Was Ensnared Scandal A Corruption Case Veiled Threats Cant make sense We break SNCLavalin affair origins
And another sign growing interest Mr Trudeaus political crisis The Timess Opinion section also weighed week
The Editorial Board Oh Trudeau In politics fresher face obvious blemishes writes The Timess editorial board
Opinion Canadian Politics Arent Cute Theyre Corrupt The Calgary journalist Jen Gerson questioned coziness Canadas elite The Timess Opinion section
Regardless take affair one thing everyone likely agree Ms Buckley doesnt seem imminently vanish So please check Canada section coming days perhaps weeks continued coverage
On March 19 gathering Dan Bilefsky colleague based Montreal Chris Buckley member team correspondents Beijing Katie Benner United States Justice Department expert Raymond Zhong Times technology reporter talk Chinese telecom giant Huawei arrest chief financial officer Vancouver means Canada
Times subscribers invited participate Please check details sign free
Dan Vancouver much past week partly look city thinks Meng Wanzhou globally famous detainee
Read Meng Wanzhous Cushy Bail Is Raising Hackles Canada
Ms Meng course Huawei executive daughter companys founder arrested Mounties early December changing planes Vancouvers airport She picked request United States government accused among things committing fraud lying banks companys efforts go around American sanctions Iran
The case left Canada trapped two global superpowers Dan found many people Vancouver thrilled Ms Mengs protracted stay house arrest city owns two homes husband
To yet another wealthy foreigner used city real estate investment helping make one unaffordable cities North America Dan wrote And contrast predicament able travel relatively freely city GPS tracker around ankle 24hour surveillance fellow citizens several arrested China apparent retaliation Ms Mengs arrest
This week China ratcheted tensions formally accusing two Canadians arrested involvement spy plot
Read China Accuses Two Canadians Spying Widening Political Rift
Finally sure check Dans explainer Ms Meng deportation hearing began week
Read What You Need Know About Huawei Court Case Canada
Sebastian Modak Travel columnist making way The Timess 52 Place Go list visited Lake Superiors ice caves near Sault Ste Marie Ontario found unusual adventure There signboards I didnt come across organized tours caves going ice search dangerous
Expressions support offers help poured Alex Trebek son Sudbury Ontario whose role longtime host Jeopardy made celebrity United States revealed cancer diagnosis week
Twentyone years passed since Michael J Fox another Canadian found fame across border revealed Parkinsons diagnosis He told The New York Times magazine hes developed relationship Parkinsons I gave disease room needed left areas I could still flourish
Duncan Keith threetime Stanley Cup champion Penticton British Columbia shares workout wellness secrets
Costas Spiliadis made Milos global restaurant empire one thats long Montreal outpost A competitor Montreal said Milos Greek restaurant place couple guys paper hats standing front shawarma machine
Norway may move divest energy industry holdings national wealth fund based oil gas revenues For Canada struggling find foreign investment sector move worrying
A native Windsor Ontario Ian Austen educated Toronto lives Ottawa reported Canada The New York Times past 15 years Follow Twitter ianrausten
Wed love feedback newsletter Please email thoughts suggestions nytcanadanytimescom And havent done please subscribe email newsletter version
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ian Austen Catherine Porter
OTTAWA His testimony calm measured respectful Whether helped erase taint leader Canada remains seen
Gerald Butts Prime Minister Justin Trudeaus close friend former top political aide tried Wednesday defuse scandal gripping country denying improper pressure put former justice minister settle criminal case
In muchanticipated televised testimony parliamentary committee Mr Butts painted interactions former minister attorney general Jody WilsonRaybould corruption case large company minimal friendly
And said two discussions aimed carefully considering would happen thousands Canadian jobs company convicted
When 9000 peoples jobs stake public policy problem highest order Mr Butts said It obligation exhaustively consider options law allows
While one disputed attorney generals decision make said It would however Canadians decision live
Mr Butts knows Mr Trudeau days McGill University faced difficult task To change political narrative around controversy rehabilitate public image best friend former boss disparaging Ms WilsonRaybould whose testimony suggested unsavory political backroom tactics
With federal election seven months away Trudeaus popularity sinking Mr Buttss testimony critical reestablishing prime ministers image feminist leader committed open sunny style
Some political experts said Mr Butts credited masterminding Mr Trudeaus political rise succeeded But others said main person needs speak Mr Trudeau
Canadians need hear prime minister committee testimony said Lori Turnbull professor political science Dalhousie University Halifax Nova Scotia
The picture Mr Butts painted differed starkly one Ms WilsonRaybould depicted spot week ago hounded four months inappropriate pressure veiled threats avoid criminal conviction Canadian construction giant SNCLavalin letting company pay multimilliondollar fine instead
The belief Mr Butts said criminal conviction would imperiled Canadian jobs barring company government business decade
Many believed Ms WilsonRaybould paid heavy price refusal comply demoted lesser cabinet position She abruptly resigned last month
But Mr Butts portrayed situation ordinary government operations
He denied staff members pressured Ms WilsonRaybould saying merely advised seek independent legal advice apply new law would allow fine
He also denied justice minister punished saying new assignment part ordinary cabinet shuffle
Over two half hours testimony questions Mr Butts kept voice low tone muted cordial
He presented throne political power son coal miner knew price shuttered plants lost jobs His tie askew wore coal miners pin lapel He repeatedly called Ms WilsonRaybould valued colleague friend
Gerald Buttss testimony casts SNCLavalin issue different light likely alter Canadians perception said Myer Siemiatycki politics professor Ryerson University Toronto
Others disagreed We need hear people involved said Maureen Mancuso politicalscience professor University Guelph
At center crisis began month ago SNCLavalin charged 2015 bribing Libyan officials dictatorship Col Muammar elQaddafi defrauding Libyan government It Ms WilsonRayboulds job either allow prosecution continue apply new criminal law allowing company pay large fine companies similar arrangements Britain United States
In testimony lasted almost four hours said felt improper politics influence case She described 10 meetings 10 calls several emails asked order prosecutors use new law cut deal company
But Mr Butts said number interactions minimal compared hundred meetings attended debate governments purchase contested Trans Mountain pipeline meetings Nafta pact
This begs entire question constitutes pressure Mr Butts said According former attorney general 11 people made contact office four months Thats two meetings two phone calls per month
Mr Butts took pains throughout testimony criticize Ms WilsonRaybould pick apart version events But cast dinner December different light She remembered told wanted everyone stop talking SNC I made mind He said recalled statement
There nothing remotely negative exchange perspective Mr Butts said In fact I walked away dinner thinking best discussion
A couple hours meal exchanged friendly text messages read aloud bore residue conflict Instead Ms WilsonRaybould appeared thank say alo prime minister
In statement Ms WilsonRaybould directly comment Mr Buttss testimony expressed willingness appear committee
In end SNCLavalins case proceeding criminal prosecution But January Ms WilsonRaybould moved justice less prestigious post veterans affairs
The January cabinet shuffle absolutely nothing SNCLavalin Mr Butts told justice committee adding however relationship Ms WilsonRaybould deteriorated significantly The shuffle sparked another cabinet ministers departure said Ms WilsonRaybould lawyer former Indigenous leader British Columbia offered Indigenous Affairs portfolio
Then Minister WilsonRaybould something I didnt expect Mr Butts said I never seen anyone many shuffles many years The former attorney general turned cabinet portfolio
Mr Butts said Ms WilsonRaybould explained spent life opposed Indian Act couldnt charge programs administered authority
While Ms WilsonRaybould wanted remain justice dream job Mr Butts said advised Mr Trudeau allowing would set bad precedent post Mr Trudeau could offer veterans affairs Cabinet invitations product shared decisionmaking said It prime ministers decision make alone make
Mr Butts resigned two weeks ago called loyalty prime minister
If I stayed actions inactions toward could used accuse playing favorites choosing best friend minister said I could allow friendship held
His final words committee seemed like farewell note He thanked members service friendship The question remains whether sacrifice worked
Ian Austen reported Ottawa Catherine Porter Toronto Meagan Campbell contributed reporting Halifax Nova Scotia

OpinionJen Gerson

Advertisement












Paul Manaforts Trail Scandals
My Dead Dads Porno Tapes
Ten Meter Tower
Between Sound Silence
Coal Miner Trump Coal Mining Isnt Coming Back
House Tour Cary Leibowitz
Sanctuary City Hotline
2011 Arab Spring
Can The President Be Impeached We Answer Your Questions
Calving Season
Advertisement
Go Home Page
Advertisement
Supported
By Jamie Tarabay
SYDNEY Australia Prime Minister Scott Morrison Australia Monday blamed sophisticated state actor recent hacking Parliaments computer network raising specter foreign interference countrys politics weeks national election
The government identified country behind attack Mr Morrison said along Parliament networks major political parties also affected
Mr Morrison detail countrys security agencies detected dealt malicious activity insisted evidence electoral interference
Cybersecurity experts said briefed countrys electoral commissions met state territory officials They also worked global antivirus companies ensure Australias friends allies capacity detect malicious activity said
Alastair MacGibbon national cybersecurity adviser said Monday government learned identity hacker acted block activity
That defensive action said also unpleasant things like remove forensic evidence interested
A government cybersecurity expert said one difficulty identifying perpetrators hackers used tools previously seen
The nations likely carry attack China Russia security experts said though Iran Israel North Korea also sophisticated cyberwarfare capabilities
Australia frequently warned Chinese interference politics Last year government barred Chinese technology giant Huawei building 5G telecommunications network In speech October head Australian Signals Directorate intelligence agency hinted decision maintaining integrity data critical infrastructure
If China I think important public know said Alex Joske researcher International Cyber Policy Center Canberra Discussions Huawei influence issues election letting public know Chinese Communist Party system important knowledge
Mr Joske said Russia interfered 2016 United States presidential election less interest Australian election
After American experience 2016 Western democracies increasingly aware vulnerability institutions said Roderick Jones founder president cybersecurity firm Rubica San Francisco
It gross negligence significant breach system point given everything thats happened around world penetration parliamentary system negligent said
The Australian hack designed damage voter confidence Mr Jones said
People suddenly questioning electronic voting processes get brought focus people stop trust Every Western election interference every one damaged way Russia China allied ever destroy confidence system said
The prime ministers acknowledgment hack represented departure past policy government reluctant singlehandedly call cyberattacks foreign governments Last April Australia United States Britain accused Russia statesponsored hacking In December Australia followed United States condemning Chinese hackers trying steal intellectual property
The Australian governments conundrum uncovered identity foreign state actor said Fergus Hanson head International Cyber Policy Center
This sets Australia first attribution without coalition never confidence say attack affected Australia said In couple months time theyre going come say behind theyll react
How Australian government responds closely watched least members Five Eyes intelligencesharing alliance United States Britain Canada New Zealand
Will Australia fall intelligencesharing community doesnt act shown less robust cybersecurity around key infrastructure asked Mr Jones Rubica Theres lot Australia thats point alliances
Because editing error earlier version article misstated nationality Roderick Jones founder president cybersecurity firm Rubica He British American
Want Australia coverage discussion Sign weekly Australia Letter start day local Morning Briefing join us Facebook group

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Adam Nossiter
Initial euphoria Algerian presidents decision give candidacy fifth term quickly gave way Tuesday skepticism anger among opposition figures called move trick save troubled government
Hundreds youthful protesters returned streets Algiers cities day government canceled April election countrys independent news media gave voice sense elderly infirm president Abdelaziz Bouteflika maneuvering extend mandate guise reform
Independent television Algeria broadcast images demonstrators holding signs messages like No extension game System give using one names Algerians commonly give ruling circle
The way forward giant oilrich North African country four times size former colonizer France unclear What nearly certain though antigovernment demonstrations repeatedly hit cities towns coastal north desert south continue
The question looming disarray long government able maintain grip whether allpowerful army restrained intervene preserve status quo done past
At time single leader emerged unite countrys chronically divided opposition weakened years repression oilmoney patronage dispensed Mr Bouteflika president two decades
On Monday night Algerias government announced name paralyzed 82yearold Mr Bouteflika April 18 election would held would candidate future election constitutional convention would held promote reforms
But timetable given national convention future election Mr Bouteflikas growing body opponents suggested president ruling armyled circle behind merely seeking prolong term office
While Mr Bouteflika got rid broadly unpopular prime minister Ahmed Ouyahia years loyal servant reaction day later presidents moves broadly hostile
Hes canceled election remains power Bouteflikas latest trick read headline Tuesday leading independent daily newspaper El Watan
The veteran opposition leader Saïd Saadi imprisoned several times government said telephone interview Algiers People demanding election without Bouteflika Now hes saying going Bouteflika without election
State television broadcast rare images immobile Mr Bouteflika hunched chair face frozen receiving visitors Some visitors confirmed Mr Bouteflika extreme difficulty speaking
It unclear much turmoil aware The televised images appear reassure public
I dont think calm country Mr Saadi said Even streets Friday added referring weekly protests held Friday Prayer
Ali Benflis leading opposition figure one Mr Bouteflikas former prime ministers told France 24 television governments plan simply trick another trick
Mr Benflis added This extension decided unconstitutional forces This illegitimate presidency This makes situation worse Its charade Mr Benflis candidate scheduled April 18 election withdrew protest Mr Bouteflikas presence
Mr Bouteflikas latest plan reinforce determination take streets ask regime leave Amel Boubekeur researcher EHESS Paris said telephone interview Algiers
Its even constitutionally based said Its responsibility president determine elections In case discussion longer individuals Ms Boubekeur said It illegitimacy regime
In sense promises include opposition planned constitutional conference may fall deaf ears given organized Mr Bouteflikas discredited government
The newly appointed deputy prime minister Ramtane Lamamra former foreign minister made promises interview Tuesday Radio France Internationale An openingup order day Mr Lamamra said Its true national consensus union Algerians energies service qualitatively better future
Algerians heard It clear anybody listening time
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Adam Goldman
A proliferation digital spying tools recent years helped generate surge sophisticated espionage operations mostly purview major powers like United States Russia Now small countries corporations even simply wealthy people looking settle scores hire private firms conduct intelligence operations
A New York Times investigation detailed new era digital warfare multibilliondollar industry behind Two firms NSO Israeli company DarkMatter based United Arab Emirates hired former government hackers help government clients hack criminal elements like terrorist groups drug cartels cases also act darker impulses targeting activists journalists
Hackers hire How former American Israeli government operatives conduct espionage behalf authoritarian governments
Governments rely surveillance part legitimate law enforcement investigations NSO selling technology created graduates Intelligence Unit 8200 Israels equivalent National Security Agency says helps government agencies prevent investigate terrorism crime save thousands lives around globe Mexican officials credited NSO technology pivotal helping track capture El Chapo drug lord convicted New York last month DarkMatter helps internal security United Arab Emirates former employees said thwarting terrorism helping police solve crimes
But Mexican government also suspected using NSO tools spy citizens including journalists activists Saudi Arabia also accused lawsuit using NSO tools spy associates Jamal Khashoggi Washington Post columnist killed October Saudi operatives kingdoms embassy Istanbul
The government United Arab Emirates used DarkMatter NSO tools spy Ahmed Mansoor prominent human rights activist The Times found
The proliferation companies trying compete Moodys estimates 12 billion market socalled lawful intercept spyware set fierce competition hire American Israeli Russian veterans worlds sophisticated intelligence agencies companies poach talent one another
NSOs business model appears paying Francisco Partners private equity firm purchased 70 percent stake company 130 million six years ago This year NSO valuation 1 billion
FBI agents federal prosecutors Washington trying determine whether Americans working DarkMatter broke United States law Investigators examining whether DarkMatter employees committed internet fraud hacked American servers email accounts Google Yahoo whether violated export laws
The Americans worked NSA CIA sought export license United States government accepted jobs DarkMatter according people familiar investigation But DarkMatter defenders say foreign companies need apply export license Americans provided technical data secret tools Emirati government engaged training assisting Emirati military forces
Its dangerous area said Edward Y Kim former federal prosecutor cochief complex fraud cybercrime unit United States attorneys office Manhattan I think sometimes folks come national security side adept technical aspects work legal complications
Follow Adam Goldman Twitter adamgoldmanNYT



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Iuliia Mendel Neil MacFarquhar
KIEV Ukraine A Ukrainian comedian plays accidental president television delivered walloping rebuke countrys political class presidential election Sunday emerging first crowded field candidates exit polls indicated
The comedian Volodymyr Zelensky 41 captured 30 percent vote according two authoritative exit polls It strong showing maverick political experience though far 50 percent needed win first round outright
If exit polls translate real votes Mr Zelensky face President Petro O Poroshenko emerged second around 18 percent runoff three weeks April 21 Yulia V Tymoshenko former prime minister making third bid presidency third 13 percent
Official results due Monday likely challenges exit polls reflected roughly results predicted surveys vote Turnout estimated 63 percent electorate 30 million people slightly ahead 60 percent voted 2014
After polls closed Mr Zelensky Mr Poroshenko lost time attacking
I want thank Ukrainians voted today kicks said Mr Zelensky taking dig Mr Poroshenko saying incumbent alone taken seriously This first step toward great victory
Mr Poroshenko said time jokes Mr Zelensky would make kind weak president sought President Vladimir V Putin Russia bogeyman Ukrainian politics
He dreams soft submissive gentle giggling inexperienced weak ideologically amorphous politically uncertain president Mr Poroshenko said Will gift
Mr Poroshenko chocolate tycoon among richest men country dominated oligarchs appeared offer tacit admission younger voters abandoned droves He said heard understood desire faster pace change
It stunning result election help determine future country become European front line new era confrontation Russia West The grinding war spawned left 13000 dead displaced millions since 2014
The fact Ukraine works real democracy albeit troubled one often cited perhaps important aspect election Unlike Potemkin elections neighboring Russia Belarus contest Ukraine offered voters real choice outcome unknown
In crowded field candidates politicians Mr Zelensky stood star popular television series plays schoolteacher unexpectedly propelled presidency anticorruption tirade goes viral
He well widespread mood Ukraine alienation politicians political class unique Ukraine said Robert Brinkley former British ambassador Ukraine chairman Ukrainian Institute London educational cultural center
In southern Kiev Artem Nechyporuk 26 computer programmer emerged polling station first warm day spring say supported Mr Zelensky
He candidate contaminated politics said That candidate
The basic knock politics Ukraine ever since country declared independence Soviet Union 1991 run government oligarchs oligarchs Despite antigovernment uprisings 2004 2014 countrys fundamental character remains unchanged
Avenues abuse government contracts corruption reduced eliminated stigma graft dogs entourage around Mr Poroshenko
Ukrainians seem fed ever A mere 9 percent say confidence government 91 percent see corrupt according Gallup poll conducted March
That gave rise Mr Zelensky blurred lines television character candidacy His show The Servant People became name party Many voters say feel know watching television years similar many Americans say President Trump
Despite freshface appeal however questions hang Mr Zelensky
Some wonder may surrogate Ihor V Kolomoisky oligarch bitter rival Mr Poroshenkos moved Israel becoming embroiled banking scandal cost Ukraine 56 billion Although Mr Zelensky business partner oligarch television announced candidacy Mr Kolomoiskys channel men denied covert link
The electorates main concerns issues like raising wages unemployment well war eastern Ukraine No candidate offered detailed blueprint solve issues
Mr Poroshenko 53 wrapped flag campaigning slogan Army Language Faith His campaign emphasized restructured army strengthen confrontation Russia pulled Orthodox Church Ukraine Moscows orbit
I voting Poroshenko already demonstrated ability things words Nataliia Pavlik 72 said voting Kiev Sunday She cited ability travel Europe without visa church autonomy army important considerations
He raised ashes Ms Pavlik said I want anchor next five years
Former Prime Minister Tymoshenko 58 adopted populist positions like plans cut gas prices half raise wages without saying pay
Ms Tymoshenko Mr Poroshenko rivals years
The Kremlin depicted election farce
Mr Poroshenko elected president 2014 three months predecessor Viktor F Yanukovych fled Russia face uprising Mr Poroshenko made confronting Russia centerpiece presidency Russian state television invariably presents corrupt buffoon working West
But Russia made pronouncements supports would doom candidate
The infrastructure needed vote set Crimea Russia annexed areas eastern Ukraine controlled proRussian separatists expatriate workers Russia leaving several million voters without polling stations
Follow Neil MacFarquhar Instagram nytMacfarquhar
Iuliia Mendel reported Kiev Neil MacFarquhar Moscow Ivan Nechepurenko Sophia Kishkovsky contributed reporting Moscow



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Canada Letter
By Ian Austen
Seven years ago Elisabeth Malkin colleague Mexico City I worked one strangest stories career It involved consultant Mount Forest Ontario previous experience Middle East sent construction engineering firm SNCLavalin assess turmoil Libya eventually led overthrow dictator Col Muammar elQaddafi
For 100000 consultant Cynthia Vanier wrote fivepage report condemning NATOled bombing campaign Colonel Qaddafis forces She wound Mexican jail charged trying smuggle dictators son country remained 18 months
It among series episodes exposed widespread corruption SNCLavalin led firing top executives several arrested raised questions survival company
Now course SNCLavalins time Qaddafi family heart political mess confronting Prime Minister Justin Trudeau eight months federal election
Want Canada Letter inbox every week Sign
It began week ago The Globe Mail citing anonymous sources subscribers reported Jody WilsonRaybould justice minister Mr Trudeau aides pressured cut deal would allow SNCLavalin escape criminal conviction bribery Libya That followed week announcement investigation Parliaments ethics commissioner Mr Trudeaus actions Then came abrupt resignation Ms WilsonRaybould Mr Trudeaus cabinet
Lets step back quick overview SNCLavalins troubled history Trudeaus current problem may lead
What SNCLavalin SNCLavalin formed 1991 two Montrealbased companies It 52000 employees 160 countries reported revenue 93 billion Canadian dollars 2017 Like Bombardier SNCLavalins international success remains source pride Quebec despite latters issues corruption employs thousands people
What The current controversy comes charges laid police four years ago They accuse company paying 477 million Canadian dollars bribes officials Libya win contracts defrauding Libyan government agencies 1298 million Canadian dollars
But thats In 2013 World Bank banned SNCLavalin bidding contracts decade settle corruption inquiry activities Bangladesh An Indian government investigation showed company paid bribes built major hydroelectric dam
Back home Pierre Duhaime SNCLavalins former chief executive pleaded guilty month charges related tens millions dollars bribes company paid secure contract build hospital complex Montreal A public official pleaded guilty taking bribes SNCLavalin landed contract renovate landmark JacquesCartier bridge Montreal
Whats stake If convicted Libya case SNCLavalin banned federal government contracts decade Such work major part SNCLavalins business Without company could financially crippled vulnerable takeover foreign competitor
How responded Publicly companys new management claims bribery forms lawbreaking past
Privately heavily lobbied politicians levels government parties The company looking changes criminal law would allow dodge conviction paying large fine proving clean hands United States Britain similar remediation agreements
While made link Trudeau government introduced change Criminal Code last March burying hundreds pages federal budget bill
What allegations Mr Trudeau According The Globe Mail office improperly pushed Ms WilsonRaybould get federal prosecutors drop criminal case use new settlement system
The prosecution service supposed work free influence politicians Justice ministers Canada dual role attorney general give prosecutors orders But thats supposed happen exceptional cases law requires government make orders public official notice
In end however nothing happened SNCLavalin still heading court
Whats next Mr Trudeau repeatedly acknowledged issue discussed former minister But also insisted neither office pressured Ms WilsonRaybould yet give side story citing solicitorclient privilege
Whatever turns political storm takes John W Boscariol lawyer Toronto advises companies corruption issues told week outcome unlikely please SNCLavalin
Now exploded going difficult company get remediation agreement said
On Feb 24 holding special conference call Canadian Australian readers David Sanger national security correspondent The Times Hell focusing pressure United States bringing Canada countries use equipment Chinas Huawei upgrade wireless networks You find details register
The loss Jody WilsonRaybould cabinet may prove step backward Prime Minister Justin Trudeaus attempts reconciliation Indigenous people
In Opinion columnist Nicholas Kristof recently praised Canada model world also said boring Some Canadian readers get last word
A reader Vancouver describes citys transit system global comparison New York
Jack Ming Jie Lin native Markham Ontario student Columbia University New York things mind addition studies He rare opportunity amateur tennis player test pros
Hockey fans Toronto discouraged cost scarcity Leafs tickets might want check Toronto Furies Canadian Womens Hockey League
Sebastian Modak Our 52 Places Traveler move one first stops ice caves near Sault Ste Marie Ontario Our colleagues Books put together list books stops Their Canadian selections obvious clever
As The Timess food editor Sam Sifton comes lot terrific recipes But also campaign get us cooking without glancing tablet grubby printout Sams nonrecipe recipes collected
Before computers machines people often women performed calculations When tasks mechanized women often programmed machines Then somehow men took Clive Thompson looks went wrong
A native Windsor Ontario Ian Austen educated Toronto lives Ottawa reported Canada The New York Times past 15 years Follow Twitter ianrausten
Wed love feedback newsletter Please email thoughts suggestions nytcanadanytimescom And doesnt arrive inbox Saturday please subscribe email newsletter version
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Keith Bradsher Chris Buckley
BEIJING Chinas premier said Tuesday government would respond economic slowdown cutting taxes easing burdens private sector giving markets bigger role diluting heavily prostate pronouncements policies critics warned scaring investors
Calling 2019 crucial year Chinas economy Premier Li Keqiang secondranking official China President Xi Jinping laid measures long supported private businesses Mr Lis annual report national legislature revived rhetoric market solutions government faced growing criticism favoring government initiatives stateowned companies squeezing private enterprise
We keep using marketoriented reforming thinking Mr Li said report The government must act resolve hand matters shouldnt manage market
But specifics speech legislature go far domestic foreign critics would liked And years session Chinas Communist Partycontrolled legislature National Peoples Congress underscored much economic anxieties come dominate policy year Mr Xi appeared politically indomitable
The nearly 3000 congress delegates meet year loyally approve legislation reports budgets Last year Mr Xi also party leader used meeting entrench power pushing changes Constitution abolished term limit presidency That meeting also approved broad restructuring government established new anticorruption agency
But triumphant glow Mr Xis victory last March dimmed Mr Li echoed somber tone Mr Xis recent comments year ahead dotted sensitive anniversaries 30 years since armed crackdown June 3 4 1989 prodemocracy protests centered Tiananmen Square Beijing
Mr Li made little mention trade frictions Trump administration But stressed risks facing China
We face graver complicated environment well risks challenges Mr Li said We must fully prepared tough struggle
The Chinese economy slowed sharply since summer mainly tight restrictions imposed lending year ago curb debt The trade war United States also damaged confidence businesses consumers making entrepreneurs less willing invest export factories consumers less eager buy bigticket items like apartments new cars
This leadership appeared strong decisive clear vision said Elizabeth C Economy senior fellow Council Foreign Relations New York author The Third Revolution studied Mr Xis years power
Besides slowing growth said Chinas leaders must contend rising household debt failure looser birth restrictions slow aging crisis growing shortfalls pension system
Mr Li laid government intends turn around problems
He set ambitious target economic growth year 6 65 percent That allows slightly slower expansion last years target 65 percent Growth Chinas gross domestic product 2018 came 66 percent Many Western economists suspect Chinese statistics may overestimate recent growth however
The three main choices maintaining high growth ramp spending roads bridges rail lines infrastructure print money force banks lend cut taxes deregulate
The government slow cut taxes deregulate preferring maintain revenues control But many tycoons want lower taxes In report Mr Li also said government would reduce burden employers social insurance oldage insurance workers
Tax cuts fee reductions get right spot tackling pains difficulties currently troubling businesses said
Mr Li also promised cut taxes year ago But economists believe much effect nominal cuts offset stricter collection
The tax heavier burden go overseas go battle said Liu Hanyuan chairman Tongwei Group conglomerate making everything fish food solar panels
In past decade Beijing turned huge debtfueled investments infrastructure big increases money supply time economy appeared slowing countrys leaders could tolerate The infrastructure investments given China one worlds finest transportation networks
But many companies local governments struggling pay debt accumulated Rapid increases mortgages broader money supply driven prices apartments skyward far beyond young people afford Real estate prices jumped tenfold past two decades many towns cities
Chinas leaders set start last year reduce debt find economy slowed markedly June In July President Trump began earnest trade war China By autumn business investor confidence plummeted investment new factories equipment stalling car sales nose dive
The government responded winter ramping infrastructure spending debt A broad measure debt known total social financing posted record jump January
Total debt come way Chinese officials hoped year ago But China made progress cracking hard barely regulated shadow banking system encouraging big increase sale bonds local governments corporations
Relying bonds means less opaque system may little less prone sudden financial panics But exposed another problem Most small mediumsize enterprises large enough profitable enough issue bonds These enterprises create 90 percent new jobs China statecontrolled banking system long reluctant lend
The annual work report Chinas premier delivered long speech Great Hall People resembles ways State Union address president United States delivers Congress year
Mr Li little new say foreign policy domestic political threats But proposed budget released time speech revealed China would continue spend heavily modernize military although slightly lower pace last year Military spending 2019 would rise 75 percent 178 billion budget showed Last year military budget grew 81 percent
The world today faces profound changes kind unseen century Mr Li said speech
Follow Keith Bradsher Chris Buckley Twitter KeithBradsher ChuBailiang
Ailin Tang Elsie Chen Zoe Mou contributed research




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
The March 1 Movement born century ago set play forces would foster divide nation
By Kyung Moon Hwang
Mr Hwang professor history University Southern California
On March 1 1919 crowd gathered Pagoda Park downtown Seoul hear proclaimed Korea independent state Koreans selfgoverning people That statement known March 1 declaration came direct defiance Japanese rule begun 1910 The organizers spanned lead citywide marches waving arms shouting Mansei equivalent Long live Korea
Seoul already powder keg The police force week countless thousands Koreans arrived city funeral Gojong Koreas previous monarch died January Still magnitude protests caught colonial security forces guard Passions sides soon spread around peninsula leading weekslong explosion violence resulted thousands dead tens thousands arrested destruction countless homes public spaces even places worship
Outsiders time also detected significance event The New York Times correspondent Beijing reported widespread fervor colonized barbarous cruelties colonial authorities simmering tensions across peninsula
The discontent building time Even Japanese annexation 1910 Koreans endured five years forced Japanese protectorate result Japans victory RussoJapanese War 190405 Then first decade colonial rule Japan placed stifling restrictions Koreans public lives name security
Koreans studying Japan enjoyed greater liberties however among first recognize implications Woodrow Wilsons wellpublicized emphasis national selfdetermination On Feb 8 1919 Korean students Tokyo read aloud statement independence drawing upon independence declaration Korean resistance leaders Manchuria days earlier
The Manchurian document aimed rally fighting spirit fellow Koreans Feb 8 declaration directed worlds nations particularly United States Britain masters world reform Written Yi Gwangsu perhaps Koreas greatest modern novelist declaration pledged follow model advanced democratic nations based justice freedom establishing independent Korea would join League Nations The statement full dismay Japanese domination ended veiled threats armed action Japanese empire immediately grant Korean independence
Three weeks later March 1 declaration also condemned wide range Japanese abuses omitted references bitterness democracy even league instead emphasizing pacifist resistance Still document alluded spirit times stressing desire join great movement world reform
Readers listeners also noticed religious undertone insistence shall blame Japan must first blame finding fault others While words written Choe Namseon pioneering poet historian infused prose flourish core ideas came declarations 33 signers collection clergymen Protestantism Buddhism New York Times report referred Heaven worshipers native nonChristian religious movement formally called Church Heavenly Way
In 1894 religions earlier incarnation inspired followers organize largest uprising history Joseon Dynasty set series events hastening kingdoms end Koreas loss sovereignty Japan 1910 occurred tumultuous era shaped external forces threatening enlightening Imperialist pressures proved impossible overcome also aroused acute awareness Korean nationhood
Although aspirations firmly quashed opening years colonial rule March 1 demonstrations 1919 particularly calamities bloody suppression compelled Japanese government change approach That fall new colonial administration declared liberalized policy cultural rule stressed harmony Japan Korea
This mean Koreans would gain independence even mechanisms autocratic foreign occupation would weaken But mark peak formative period modern Korean nationhood Koreans could participate much freely publishing religion business formed joined organizations dedicated kinds cultural intellectual economic endeavors This produced first canon great modern literary works fostered competing articulations national identity even prompted standardization written Korean
But hopeful developments came screeching halt Japan Pacific War 19371945 imposed total mobilization included abuses forced labor sexual slavery attempt obliterate distinctive Korean identity Under intense strain even revered figures like Yi Choe eloquently given voice countrymens longing independence called Koreans become imperial subjects Japanese emperor sacrifice lives Japans wars
So March 1 movement fail While prompted flowering national nationalist culture result Koreas independence primary goal And moderation colonial rule eventually gave way brutal repression Korean identity
The movements significance extends another major outcome March 1 well A month protests broke resistance groups established Shanghai Korean Provisional Government newly declared Republic Korea These groups included budding Communists armed fighters Siberia Manchuria expatriates United States activists within peninsula On April 10 1919 issued founding proclamation draft constitution pointed March 1 demonstrations like February declaration promised new state would join League Nations
This unity proved shortlived The independence movement split two opposing ideological camps division eventually became institutionalized separate states know today North South Korea Communist leaders spread across Asia later fought Japanese wilderness Manchuria rightwing counterparts aligned Chinese nationalists Another batch independence activists worked United States although branched separate groups based Hawaii California East Coast
An umbrella organization linked various nonCommunist independence efforts 1919 Korean National Association headquartered Los Angeles Over 16000 KNA documents discovered 2002 since digitized Korean Heritage Library University Southern California reveal extensive global network organizations funds activists including esteemed figures like Ahn ChangHo Henry Chung Philip Jaisohn Hyun Soon Syngman Rhee later first president South Korea Kim Kyusik selfappointed delegate Versailles Peace Conference KPGs first foreign minister
Their recurring appearance letters telegrams ledgers photographs reveals ceaseless attempt extend organizational impulse KPG idealistic thrust March 1 necessarily spirit unity Indeed communists remained mostly excluded circle despite growing antiJapanese campaigns
None figures played decisive role bringing liberation Japanese rule 1945 roles international leaders national resistance endowed supreme legitimacy returned home Among riding postwar wave Kim Ilsung guerrilla leader Chinese Communists Manchuria Kim managed survive Japanese hunt late 1930s holding Soviet Union accompanied Russians Pyongyang 1945 There maneuvered position Soviets main Korean representative northern occupation zone
In effort compensate dependence Kims regime devised nativist isolationist ideology Juche would undergird totalitarian rule North Korea death 1994 But Juche commonly rendered selfreliance extreme offshoot selfdetermination inspired events 1919 To degree North Koreas history traced rhetorical winds stirred American president Woodrow Wilson
According North Koreas national history narrative March 1 celebrated noble failure stirring expression peoples struggle freedom fell short headed bourgeois leaders instead great socialist hero That would course Kim 6yearold boy said participated protests apparently young lead revolution The Korean Provisional Government hand even considered understandable given Korean Communist movements bitter fallout KPG 1919 continued denigrate group thereafter
South Korea hand fully embraced March 1 KPG The constitution new South Korean state Korean English founded 1948 called Republic Korea appropriated March 1 establishing legitimacy This connection remains today preamble talks upholding cause Provisional Republic Korea Government born March First Independence Movement 1919
Every year March 1 national holiday South Korea children trotted schoolyards dressed costumes singing March 1 Song waving Korean flag show March 1 spirit Then march streets watch awkward performances featuring actors dressed Japanese policemen shooting valiant demonstrators onlookers boo cheer chomping dried squid
The March 1 commemorations become longstanding rite spring marking beginning school year seasonally regenerating antiJapanese sentiment This years centenary promised biggest commemorations Korea diasporic communities around world
The global reach 1919 Korean history reflects universalized promises made architects peace Versailles inspired developments far shattered landscapes Europe The longterm outcomes however decidedly mixed
Last year summit two leaders North South Korea pledged organize joint celebration coming March 1 centenary The plan fizzled maybe best For events spring 1919 facilitated later independence movements flowering Korean culture identity also unleashed catastrophic forces eventually divided country perhaps forever
Further reading Frank Baldwin Participatory AntiImperalism The 1919 Independence Movement Journal Korean Studies Vol 1 1979 Kyung Moon Hwang A History Korea An Episodic Narrative Richard Kim The Quest Statehood Korean Immigrant Nationalism US Sovereignty 19051945 Michael Robinson Koreas TwentiethCentury Odyssey A Short History
Kyung Moon Hwang professor history University Southern California author recently Past Forward Essays Korean History
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Dionne Searcey
ABUJA Nigeria When Nigerian presidential candidate landed United States January years subject visa ban corruption allegations team Western consultants lobbyists thank warm American welcome
One helped Riva Levinson mentored art political consulting Paul Manafort former chairman President Trumps presidential campaign sentenced month seven years prison host crimes
Ms Levinson firm KRL International among many American political consultants ties President Trump become regular fixtures African political campaigns seizing regions turn toward democracy
For decades countries subSaharan Africa changed governments coups left military juntas charge But increasingly places like Nigeria elections supposed determine people though sometimes fully free fair
Yet elections become common competitive complete polling social media campaigns African candidates hiring Western firms sway voters influence media coverage candidacies
Consultants perceived ties Mr Trump especially valued political clients even countries disparaged vulgar phrase largely administrations foreign policy radar
From sidelines recent election event Nigeria Ms Levinson reminisced old days Mr Manafort would dispatch across globe enlist unsavory leaders help clean international reputations hefty fee
Paul master strategist He could hover 30000 feet see moving parts fit together move one precision recalled I learned gave frontrow seat watch history Im grateful
Ms Levinson Nigeria help opposition party countrys recent election The partys presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar client powerful Nigerian senator managing Mr Abubakars campaign
Mr Abubakar lost But campaign Ms Levinson team American lobbyists consultants ties Mr Trump helped client secure meetings legislators powerful American lobbying groups He stayed Trump International Hotel fivestar hotel near White House
Those small victories Mr Abubakar access Washington power centers impressive candidate named prime example overseas corruption United States Senate subcommittee 2010 Its report said funneled tens millions dollars worth Nigerian oil revenues foreign shell accounts Mr Abubakar never prosecuted years prevented traveling United States
These firms help candidates launder image Washington London New York shifting outside attention away bareknuckle reality election campaigns said Matthew T Page former State Department official associate fellow Africa program Chatham House British research group
They also seek manipulate election narrative planting press stories neutralizing negative narratives social media Mr Page said
In Nigeria opposition party also tapped another consulting firm Ballard Partners help facilitate meetings Mr Abubakar Capitol Hill part 90000 month contract Brian D Ballard firms owner top fundraiser Trump campaign
Ms Levinson accompanied Mr Abubakar many meetings Washington Holland Knight American law firm lobbied State Department secure visa Scott D Mason former aid Mr Trump led law firms effort according filings
Some Western firms trying exploit Trump administrations concerns China surpassing Americas influence continent marketing African clients solutions
Mr Ballards firm says adding consultants ties Africa betting win clients Trump administration tries counteract China offered billions dollars infrastructure gifts loans governments across mineralrich continent gain foothold
It undeniably Americas interest combat Chinas growing geopolitical influence Africa said James Rubin charge international affairs Ballard Partners assistant secretary state Clinton administration
This month government Zimbabwe hired Ballard Partners contract worth 500000 improve relations United States according government filings
Longtime African election observers say region opportunities abound Western firms take advantage editorial standards local newspapers less rigorous parts world They also manipulate social media ways tested refined recent elections West
The process representing governments abroad get messy Regardless firms ties White House charges fraud violence around election time cast pall work consultants jeopardizing image
In 2016 government President Ali Bongo Ondimba Gabon hired Ogilvy global public relations firm bring international reporters Gabons capital Libreville oneonone interviews president seaside palace Mr Bongo reelection year though opposition criticized fairness vote violence broke
Last year Mercury Public Affairs announced working government Cameroon ahead presidential election But quickly rescinded deal amid charges human rights violations Cameroons military
Not long Glover Park Group American firm picked contract working Cameroonian Embassy Washington The firms representatives send regular dispatches reporters governmentfriendly spins events Cameroon teetering brink civil war separatists
Vanguard Africa nonprofit consultancy built client base working opposition free Gambia one regions brutal longestserving presidents ousted 2016
For countries subSaharan Africa opinions officials side globe matter Western governments offer millions dollars aid alleviate extreme poverty military training weaponry fight Islamist insurgencies
Local opinions clearly matter In Nigerian campaign Mr Abubakars team Western local consultants helped shop articles local newspapers reflected poorly incumbent president eventual winner Muhammadu Buhari
While working Mr Manafort 10 years starting 1985 Ms Levinson roster clients need cleaning reputations He sent reel Mohamed Siad Barre Somali dictator employ firm
Eventually directors Mr Manaforts firm went way Ms Levinson
I knew Paul Manafort unbound structure oversight would dangerous said I wanted part
She went help Ellen Johnson Sirleaf rise power Liberia president 2006 2018 Ms Levinsons clients include ministries Liberia Ghana
Part mission Nigeria said keep international US attention Nigerias elections free fair
Ms Levinsons public comments indicate mixed feelings old boss In editorial last year Mr Manaforts legal troubles began called rulebender little regard lives lost damaged actions money
Susan Beachy contributed reporting New York
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Charm extricate Canadas Justin Trudeau spreading political mess Only honest answers
By The Editorial Board
The editorial board represents opinions board editor publisher It separate newsroom OpEd section
Justin Trudeau came office 2015 high road exuding charm confidence integrity openness change He filled cabinet women minorities opened Canadas doors immigrants posed endless selfies adoring crowds But politics fresher face obvious blemishes
With seven months go Canadas next national election prime minister embroiled political scandal charm wipe away Two members cabinet prominent women resigned closest adviser unless convince public soon really nothing wrong trying head criminal prosecution big Montrealbased company damage get serious
The crisis unfolded The Globe Mail newspaper reported Feb 7 Jody WilsonRaybould Mr Trudeaus former justice minister attorney general come improper pressure prime ministers office reach negotiated settlement multinational engineering firm SNCLavalin instead prosecuting criminal charges faces business dealings Libya Conviction would bar government contracts decade
The case centers accusations SNCLavalin paid 477 million Canadian dollars bribes officials Libya win contracts defrauded Libyan government agencies 1298 million Canadian dollars Libya time led dictator Col Muammar elQaddafi
In fallout followed Ms WilsonRaybould resigned cabinet testimony parliamentary committee last week described Mr Trudeau staff pressed prosecute firm citing companys threat slash thousands jobs leave Canada entirely Mr Trudeau reportedly told loss jobs would hurt ruling Liberal Party future elections Of course companies facing litigation taxation costs business often make threats
Then Monday another highprofile government minister Jane Philpott abruptly resigned president Treasury Board saying lost confidence Trudeau governments handling affair I must abide core values ethical responsibilities constitutional obligations Ms Philpott said letter prime minister There cost acting ones principles bigger cost abandoning
All along Mr Trudeau denied anything wrong He acknowledges spoke Ms WilsonRaybould SNCLavalin case argues discussions well within bounds rules His defenders note charges dropped company prime minister show concern potential loss 9000 jobs The issue moreover never dropping charges allowing firm pay fine instead facing criminal prosecution
Looked south Canadian border entire matter may seem trivial alongside many accusations levied President Trump pressures routinely applied politicians behalf powerful companies
But Canada tangled SNCLavalin affair unavoidably measured expectations Mr Trudeau raised standards set For accused two prominent women team violating high ethical bar set major blow least brand
Mr Trudeau likely compelled resign issue But degree political damage sustains scandal affects October elections depend whether convince Canadians open venue detail wrong
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Adam Nossiter
Abdelaziz Bouteflika ailing Algerian president whose candidacy spawned weeks protests tightly controlled nation announced Monday would seek fifth term office
The announcement concession citizens turned everincreasing numbers streets Algerias cities demand Mr Bouteflika give plans extend 20year rule
But statement also canceled election scheduled April raising questions long president would remain power
There fifth term statement released official news agency Mr Bouteflikas name said Monday night adding never question health age giving final duty Algerian people contributing founding new republic framework new Algerian system
In fact Mr Bouteflika least around maintained candidacy announcement The 82yearold president oilrich country paralyzed 2013 stroke able address citizens since rarely appears public
Eight years Arab Spring forced autocrats elsewhere region seemed finally Algerias turn An autocrat forced cede power street The demonstrations largely peaceful violence neither security forces crowds
On Monday night hundreds youths waving flags celebrated Mr Bouteflikas decision Algiers Cars honked horns families poured streets
Its important moment power Algeria never backed said Benjamin Stora leading historian Algeria Two weeks ago unimaginable
And deaths Its great moment history Mediterranean Basin president retreats nobody killed Its really important
But unclear whether announcement would fully satisfy protesters indeed much ground Mr Bouteflika fact given
The announcement suggested although April 18 election canceled Mr Bouteflika would longer candidate still intended hang least successor chosen election far scheduled
I commit God grants life help said transmit duties prerogatives president republic successor Algerian people freely chosen
That escape clause quickly led Algerian opposition suspect wily president maneuvered way tight spot veteran politician survived half century regime changes troubled country come top
Bouteflika running hes going remain president beyond April 2019 Abdelaziz Rahabi former communications minister wrote Facebook To arrogance adds contempt His unhealthy obsession power threat stability state unity nation
Even Mr Bouteflika step assurance small circle actually running country army presidents brother powerful industrial bosses received lucrative state contracts would relinquish power
The decisions announced today partial victory peoples movement one countrys leading human rights lawyers Moustapha Bouchachi said video Facebook But demands Algerians limited simply delay elections dropping fifth term What talking transition period government national consensus
The official statement Monday also said convention would called write new constitution new government would formed
But gave date convention new elections And Mr Bouteflikas vow would watch constitutional institutions suggested least around intended keep tight grip essential functions unspecified period
The statement gave nod group forced governments hand Monday Algerias youth I especially understand message young anxious ambitious future country said
But announcement unlikely satisfy youthful protesters initial euphoria wore Previous concessions Mr Bouteflika including plans set early elections win new term April also failed temper public outrage
Its first victory said Algerian political scientist Lahouari Addi emeritus professor Institute Political Studies Lyon France Its first concession But street demand Its revolutionary situation
He said protesters would likely demand army stop designating president government
The protests biggest Algeria least three decades Tens thousands turned Friday demonstrations continued weekend even Mr Bouteflika returned hospital treatment Geneva
His paralysis seen demonstrators symbol Algeria place unemployment affects perhaps quarter population institutions rubber stamps ruling elite hundreds people year attempt dangerous crossing Europe Parliament powerless although elements free press journalists regularly harassed
The massive protests already evoked comparisons demonstrations toppled longtime rulers Tunisia Egypt early 2011 set wave uprisings across region became known Arab Spring
Commentators region speculated potential impact Mr Bouteflikas capitulation Sudan months street demonstrations demanded resignation longtime strongman Omar alBashir 75 years old ruled 30 years
Sudan like Algeria largely escaped upheaval 2011 part painful memories earlier episodes civil strife still fresh But unlike Algerian counterpart Mr alBashir struggling quell demonstrations Sudanese economy teetering brink collapse
The events Algeria may encourage Sudanese people stay course maintain resilience try push Bashir Suliman Baldo Sudanese human rights advocate United States said telephone interview
But doubted Algerian example would much dislodge Mr Bashir power noting Algerian security forces refrained bloody confrontation demonstrators Sudanese cracked increasing force since declaration emergency last month
If see way police security forces behaved Algeria really responsible Mr Baldo said In Sudan ferocious They hesitated use live ammunition state emergency started walking houses beating people homes They acting law
Other Arab rulers signaled watching Algerian protests trepidation President Abdel Fattah elSisi Egypt rose power promising restore order Egyptian uprising 2011 made little effort hide apprehension protests Algeria Sudan could inspire new unrest Egypt
Protesters around region ruining countries told Egyptians televised speech Sunday warned demonstrations would damage alreadystruggling economy How tourism factories trade supposed get ground Should eat say busy protesting
Hadjer Guenanfa contributed reporting Algiers David D Kirkpatrick London


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Michael S Schmidt Ben Protess Maggie Haberman
WASHINGTON President Trumps lead lawyer Rudolph W Giuliani said Wednesday lawyers several people facing scrutiny Justice Department investigations Trump campaign presidency contacted see whether president would pardon clients
Mr Giuliani declined identify lawyers broached subject clients He made statement response questions Mr Trumps former lawyer fixer Michael D Cohen told federal prosecutors Manhattan pardon discussions last year involved Mr Giuliani lawyer expressing interest representing Mr Cohen according people briefed matter
The disclosure Mr Giuliani new details pardon discussions involving Mr Cohen highlighted continued questions Mr Trumps pardon power might use special counsel Robert S Mueller III federal prosecutors Democrats Congress investigate political business careers
The discussions acknowledged Mr Giuliani demonstrate least investigation lawyers believed worthwhile ask whether pardon table
Mr Giuliani representing Mr Trump since last spring said always insisted defense lawyers Mr Trump would consider granting pardons investigations long
Mr Giulianis account stance contrasts initial approach taken first head Mr Trumps legal team John M Dowd discussions lawyers Paul Manafort Michael T Flynn 2017 pardons
And Mr Giulianis statement comes White House seeking undermine Mr Cohens credibility wide range issues scathingly critical testimony Mr Trump Capitol Hill last week
I always gave one answer always left disappointed Mr Giuliani said
Mr Giuliani said could confirm conversation took place lawyers Mr Cohen citing attorneyclient privilege
What took place around discussion pardons became complicated late Wednesday The Wall Street Journal reported Mr Cohens current lawyer Lanny J Davis said Mr Cohen directed Stephen M Ryan lawyer 2018 ask Mr Trumps personal lawyers pardon
That appeared directly contradict Mr Cohens testimony last week House Oversight Reform Committee said never sought pardon president would accept one But Mr Davis insisted Mr Cohen referring July 2018 presidents lawyers longer formal agreement work together defenses
Reached late Wednesday Mr Davis said Mr Ryan contacted Mr Trumps lawyers response strategy dangling potential pardon
At point time still part club willing explore Mr Davis said Mr Cohen Nothing came got frustrated toyed added
Mr Davis said new information contradict Mr Cohen said testimony time talking period made decision tell truth
He added And new Michael Cohen authorized say publicly wouldnt accept pardon Donald Trump offered
Mr Trump granted pardons anyone directly linked investigations business activities campaign presidency
The issue pardons hung investigations links Mr Trumps campaign Russia whether president obstructed justice since inquiries began two years ago Mr Mueller investigated whether Mr Trump dangled pardons stop Mr Flynn cooperating Mr Mueller wanted question Mr Trump matter
Testifying behind closed doors Wednesday House Intelligence Committee Mr Cohen pressed whether sought offered potential pardon
The Washington Post reported Saturday House Senate Intelligence Committees investigating whether Mr Cohen discussions potential pardon The House Judiciary Committee also announced would examine misuse pardon power part sweeping investigation president administration family businesses
Mr Cohen recently provided information federal prosecutors Manhattan pardon discussions part effort assist authorities potentially reduce lengthy prison sentence
He faces three years behind bars personal financial crimes making illegal hush money payments behalf Mr Trump 2016 presidential campaign women said sexual encounters Mr Trump
Mr Cohen told prosecutors Manhattan pardon discussions happened searches authorities conducted residence office April 2018 He described prosecutors lawyer considering representing Robert J Costello spoken Mr Giuliani
Prosecutors obtained cryptic email Mr Costello sent Mr Cohen assuring raised issue importance Mr Giuliani according people briefed matter
The prosecutors followed Mr Cohen ask additional details pardon discussions people said though indication suspected anyone involved conversations wrongdoing
ABC News reported Wednesday lawyers claiming ties Mr Giuliani sought Mr Cohen discuss options prosecutors closed last year
It clear Mr Costello ever formally retained Mr Cohen Mr Costello declined comment citing attorneyclient privilege added would free comment Mr Cohen waived privilege
Mr Giuliani said Mr Cohen waive privilege confident version events insisted personally never urged anyone anything cooperate investigations He said discussions Mr Cohens lawyers always sharing information joint defense agreement
I would say lawyers You shouldnt make decision based assumption pardon Mr Giuliani said recounting discussions
A spokeswoman United States attorneys office Manhattan declined comment
It unclear broached subject potential pardon Mr Cohen Mr Costello In testimony last week House Oversight Reform Committee Mr Cohen declared opening statement I never asked would I accept pardon President Trump
One person familiar talks said centered whether Mr Cohen could given prepardon way potentially absolving wrongdoing could indicted
The pardon discussions progressed far Last August Mr Cohen pleaded guilty litany crimes including arranging hush money payments Mr Trump lawyers subsequently began series attacks Mr Cohens credibility Mr Trump since called rat
Mr Cohen scheduled begin serving threeyear prison sentence May made oblique reference public testimony last week oversight panel inquiry federal prosecutors Southern District New York
When asked Democratic lawmaker recent communications Mr Trump someone acting behalf Mr Cohen replied Unfortunately topic actually something thats investigated right Southern District New York Ive asked discuss
An earlier version article misstated authorities conducted searches Michael D Cohens residence office It 2018 2017
Michael S Schmidt Maggie Haberman reported Washington Ben Protess New York


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Alan Yuhas
A widespread blackout enveloped much Venezuela darkness Thursday night stopping subway service capital causing problems around country plagued power failures economic crisis worsened
The power failure appeared severe others however government President Nicolás Maduro moved quickly blame opponents
The minister electrical power Luis Motta Domínguez said state television blackout caused attack Guri Dam large hydroelectric facility east Venezuela Information Minister Jorge Rodríguez also state news network said rightwing criminals committed sabotage dams system generation distribution
The officials say much country affected blackout
Mr Maduro accused United States orchestrating power failure writing Twitter The electrical war announced directed imperialist United States people defeated
Secretary State Mike Pompeo said late Thursday responsibility rested Mr Maduros government
The power outage devastation hurting ordinary Venezuelans USA wrote Twitter Its Colombia Its Ecuador Brazil Europe anywhere else Power shortages starvation result Maduro regimes incompetence
Juan Guaidó opposition leader United States recognized Venezuelas leader also linked blackout government authorities
How tell mother cook ill person depends machine laborer needs work theyre powerful country without light asked Twitter He added The light come end usurpation
On social media many used hashtag SinLuz Without Light share photos video cities nearly total darkness Venezuelans unable use public transportation walking large numbers city streets lit car headlights Local news reports showed large traffic jams caused failed traffic lights
Venezuela suffered periodic power failures months electrical system deteriorated along much countrys infrastructure Though one South Americas prosperous nations economy collapsed mismanagement corruption leaving people starving without medical supplies Millions Venezuelans fled country foot
The economic crisis spawned political one January Mr Guaidó declared president formally recognized countrys leader several dozen nations United States among American officials imposed additional sanctions Mr Maduros government tried deliver aid Venezuelan authorities accusing Americans trying force regime change largely blocked borders
Austin Ramzy contributed reporting



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Richard PérezPeña
Most European Unions member countries Monday recognized Juan Guaidó legitimate leader Venezuela turning decisively President Nicolás Maduro refused demand schedule new presidential election
The countries including Austria Britain Denmark France Germany Netherlands Poland Portugal Spain others joined United States Canada Australia much Latin America withdrawing recognition Mr Maduros government acknowledging Mr Guaidó opposition leader interim president pending elections
Nicolas Maduro called Presidential elections within 8 day limit set So UK alongside European allies recognises jguaido interim constitutional president credible elections held Lets hope takes us closer ending humanitarian crisis
Mr Maduro easily reelection last year despite collapsing economy endemic corruption repression Venezuela vote opponents international observers said heavily rigged
In early January National Assembly labeled Mr Maduro illegitimate usurper Jan 23 Mr Guaidó leader assembly sworn interim president
A group European countries given Mr Maduro midnight Sunday schedule new free fair presidential election several explicitly warned would withdraw recognition Mr Maduro refused order new elections Monday European countries followed threat
Venezuelans right express freely democratically President Emmanuel Macron France wrote Twitter adding government recognized Mr Guaidó president charge carry elections
The British foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt said Twitter Mr Guaidó acknowledged interim constitutional president credible elections held
Also Monday Vatican confirmed Mr Maduro sent letter Pope Francis asking dialogue




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ian Austen
OTTAWA Another minister cabinet Prime Minister Justin Trudeau Canada quit protest Monday accusations aides tried influence criminal case multinational Canadian company accused bribing Libyan government
The unexpected resignation Jane Philpott led treasury board inflames growing political crisis already cost Mr Trudeau former justice minister top aide
Ive considering events shaken government recent weeks serious reflection I concluded I must resign member cabinet said Ms Philpott also former health minister minister Indigenous affairs
It grieves resign portfolio I work deliver important mandate I must abide core values ethical responsibilities constitutional obligations There cost acting ones principles bigger cost abandoning pictwittercomEwO5dtdgG6
Speaking Liberal party rally Toronto Monday night Mr Trudeau thanked Ms Philpott service
I know Ms Philpott felt way time Mr Trudeau said speech occasionally interrupted hecklers While Im disappointed I understand decision
Mr Trudeau said political controversy generated important discussion added questions answered said coming days weeks
With federal election looming seven months away Mr Trudeau must salvage reputation someone promised open approach politics may peril losing control position leader Liberal Party would end time prime minister
On Monday Andrew Scheer Conservative leader repeated call Mr Trudeau step called cabinet ministers follow Ms Philpotts example
In announcing decision Ms Philpott cited accusations Mr Trudeau aides exerted improper excessive pressure justice minister attorney general time Jody WilsonRaybould seek settlement criminal case company SNCLavalin
A criminal conviction would barred company bidding government contracts decade potentially leading major job losses Quebec headquarters
You read SNCLavalin case entangled Mr Trudeau
Ms WilsonRaybould resisted pressure quit cabinet last month Ms Philpott among cabinet ministers publicly side
There cost acting ones principles bigger cost abandoning Ms Philpott wrote resignation letter Mr Trudeau Monday
Privately several members caucus said Mr Trudeau badly fumbled handling controversy Publicly though spoken solidarity prime minister
Royce Koop political scientist University Manitoba Winnipeg said might change
Philpott really talent pool Trudeau cabinet got things done said The question start see beginning caucus rebellion I havent heard anything happening But going shift opinion caucus
But Professor Koop said hes seen nothing suggest Ms WilsonRaybould trying lead movement eject Mr Trudeau party leader thus prime minister
Both Ms WilsonRaybould Ms Philpott doctor entering politics 2015 recruited Mr Trudeau enter politics 2015 election Neither developed strong political machine support new careers
Both former ministers worked closely together Mr Trudeaus signature achievements including legalization medical marijuana righttodie legislation Both say intend remain Liberal caucus
Mr Trudeaus troubles began nearly month ago The Globe Mail citing anonymous sources said Mr Trudeau aides improperly pressured Ms WilsonRaybould use newly created law work settlement SNCLavalin would seen pay substantial fine avoid criminal conviction
Canadian authorities accused company paying 477 million Canadian dollars bribes officials Libya win contracts defrauding Libyan government agencies 1298 million Canadian dollars
In January Ms WilsonRaybould moved Mr Trudeau justice minister attorney general veterans affairs minister many saw demotion slight one remaining Indigenous member cabinet On Feb 12 resigned
Last week testimony House Commons justice committee Ms WilsonRaybould described 10 meetings 10 conversations series email exchanges Mr Trudeau senior aides others view improperly pressured cut deal company
She testified one broke law crossed informal lines Canada supposed isolate prosecutors politics mentioning potential political consequences Liberals shutting SNCLavalin government business
Mr Trudeau said disagrees Ms WilsonRayboulds characterizations events Several senior Liberals said many others share view
Gerald Butts close friend Mr Trudeaus quit top political aide initial news articles accusations set testify parliamentary committee Wednesday
Ken Coates political historian University Saskatchewan Saskatoon said Ms Philpotts resignation significant act cabinet revolt 50 years
To minister directly involved stand resign astounding Professor Coates said Were new world
An earlier version article misstated day Jane Philpott resigned position prime ministers cabinet She quit post Monday Wednesday

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Friday morning Here stories making news Washington politics today
_____________________
The Senate voted overturn President Trumps national emergency declaration southwest border delivering bipartisan rebuke lawmakers parties deemed executive overreach The 5941 vote Housepassed measure sets first veto Mr Trumps presidency
House Republicans joined Democrats demand Justice Department publicly release full findings Robert Muellers investigation Russias interference 2016 election possible involvement Mr Trumps campaign
Three votes Congress week rebuking Mr Trump Saudi Arabia blocking national emergency declaration demanding public release Mueller report demonstrated newfound willingness among Mr Trumps Republican allies stand
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin personally pushing China give American film industry greater access markets That raised ethical questions given ties Hollywood
Mr Mnuchin signaled would block congressional request obtain Mr Trumps tax returns privacy grounds setting potential legal battle Democrats follow
New evidence suggests Russian spies used networks run Aleksej Gubarev tech entrepreneur hack Democratic Party 2016 much socalled Steele dossier purported detail Russian interference election alleged
Facing billions dollars cleanup costs Pentagon pushing Trump administration adopt weaker standard groundwater pollution caused chemicals commonly used military bases
Afghanistans national security adviser accused American special envoy seeking personal benefit sidelining Afghan government peace talks Taliban increasing legitimacy Taliban decreasing legitimacy Afghan government
_____________________
Todays On Politics briefing compiled Isabella Grullón Paz New York
Were forwarded newsletter Subscribe get delivered inbox
Is anything think missing Anything want see Wed love hear Email us onpoliticsnytimescom
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Laura M Holson
In latest attempt reflect Polynesian heritage Cook Islands considering changing name
A governmentbacked committee exploring issue according Danny Mataroa one committees members longtime advocate name change The Cook Islands named Capt James Cook British explorer visited South Pacific area mid1770s became selfgoverning territory 1965 sought rename several times since
We old enough Mr Mataroa said interview Tuesday We OK Now name choose
When Cook sailed upon islands northeast New Zealand found Indigenous population made descendants French Polynesia Spanning 15 islands Cooks named British protectorate 1888 The area popular among seafaring captains roamed ocean harpooned whale prized meat oil
Now majority population lives Rarotonga largest island population 13000 The islands 17000 inhabitants The Cooks free association New Zealand large population Cook Islanders living
Inhabitants sought change Cooks name reflect Maori local Indigenous language discussions go back 1970s Mr Mataroa said
But 1994 name change put vote rejected Then Prime Minister Sir Geoffrey Henry approved referendum acknowledge Maori name Cook Islands retaining original name English The majority voters though voted measure
The economy supported tourism banking exports local goods In 2013 international finance regulators cracked investment trusts set Cook Islands saying become offshore investors Palm Beach New York Hollywood sought avoid paying taxes
A committee 19 members convened January Pa Marie Ariki member group tribal leaders advises government matters related culture custom Mr Mataroa said So far committee gathered 60 names public support tribal leaders across Cook Islands
Mr Mataroa said committee considering names requirements It 15 letters four syllables easy explain English Mr Mataroa said group hoped narrow list April
Names would presented government could voted upon referendum Thomas Wynne government media adviser advisory committee said Tuesday If approved public government amendment constitution would needed change name
Deputy Prime Minister Mark Brown member Cook Islands Party respond request comment Tuesday But Mr Brown told Radio New Zealand March interview supported name change wanted hear comments Cook Islanders
Im quite happy look traditional name country reflects true Polynesian nature island nation said He added seemed likely referendum would needed make change
The Democratic Party leader Tina Browne respond request comment Tuesday
Mr Mataroa said fellow committee members seeking public opinion challenge given population spread across dozen islands two million square miles It going long expensive process said
Jack Begg contributed research

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Kirk Semple
The governments United States Canada warned people travel Haiti violent protests President Jovenel Moïse continued Friday capital cities Caribbean nation ninth straight day
Protesters demanded Mr Moïses ouster blocked roads burning tires metal fencing cinder blocks paralyzing transportation capital forcing closing businesses government offices schools causing shortages food fuel Clashes demonstrators police left several people dead spread fear throughout population
The sustained unrest month latest eruption public anger Moïse administration broadly Haitian government economic malaise rampant corruption
In travel advisory State Department urged American citizens travel Haiti due crime civil unrest In another advisory United States Embassy Haiti urged Americans strongly consider departing soon safely
The United States government also ordered departure nonemergency American personnel family members
The Canadian government starkly worded advisory Thursday said Avoid travel Haiti
The uprising month continuation protests began last year spurred social media campaign focusing allegations Haitis government misappropriated billions dollars intended reconstruction devastating earthquake 2010 The money come Venezuelasponsored oil program PetroCaribe sent discounted oil Haiti
An investigation Haitian Senate accused former government officials embezzled funds
While protests last year initially centered demands accounting missing money prosecutions responsible quickly evolved become referendum Moïse administration The anger fueled nations worsening economy suffered soaring inflation anemic growth flagging exports ballooning budget deficit
On Thursday night Mr Moïse presidency November 2016 lengthy electoral process marred allegations voter fraud made first public statements since current spate protests began Feb 7
Rejecting demands resignation president called dialogue opponents promised announce economic measures hope subduing discontent
I heard voice people said I know problems torment
But protesters unmollified took streets Friday Demonstrations erupted various neighborhoods around capital elsewhere country The police PortauPrince fired tear gas rubber bullets one contingent protesters
In travel advisory posted Thursday State Department painted grim security picture Haiti
Violent crime armed robbery common said Local police may lack resources respond effectively serious criminal incidents emergency response including ambulance service limited nonexistent
On Friday The Canadian Press reported 113 tourists Canada trapped unrest Haitian resort would evacuated helicopters PortauPrince airport flown country
This week international governmental group monitors Haiti called countrys leaders engage constructive inclusive dialogue resolve crisis
The group includes representatives United Nations European Union United States several countries also urged Haitian government accelerate structural reforms
Change must come ballot box violence group said
As protests gone Mr Moïse appears become isolated increasing number leaders civil society political class including allies urging engage dialogue opposition leaders even resign analysts said
You seen people close making statements expressing concern lack leadership lack comments lack plan address crisis said Jake Johnston research associate Center Economic Policy Research based Washington
Mr Johnston said conceivable Mr Moïse weather immediate crisis unless takes concrete action address economic malaise evidence corruption likelihood able maintain coalition support power difficult
Andre Paultre contributed reporting

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raphael Minder
Spains former leader told Supreme Court Wednesday Catalan separatist leaders bear full responsibility chaos clashes 2017 independence referendum insisting played part directing national police use force block people voting
Mariano Rajoy former prime minister prominent among many witnesses called testify landmark trial 12 former leaders Catalonia region Spain They facing prison sentences 25 years convicted charges staging rebellion botched attempt secede unilaterally rest Spain October 2017
In attempt turn tables Spains central government defense lawyer separatists showed Mr Rajoy television footage chaotic unconstitutional referendum October 2017 Spanish police officers filmed hitting voters truncheons
I sadly seen many images kind life Mr Rajoy told court What I would like say responsibility political leaders avoid events like seen If acted respecting law would seen images similar ones
I greatly regret images added
If people convened illegal referendum nobody would seen injuries people suffered members security forces Mr Rajoy said
He also insisted Catalan separatist leaders perfectly aware day one government would never allow referendum independence accept offers thirdparty mediation
There never negotiator Mr Rajoy said asked attempt leader Basque region help break deadlock Spain Spaniards want Spaniards
The result referendum passed overwhelmingly many abstentions immediately declared null void Spains judiciary Nevertheless separatist majority Catalan regional Parliament declared independence weeks later
That prompted Mr Rajoy impose direct rule Madrid restive region oust separatist government led Carles Puigdemont fled Brussels avoid prosecution Spain
Mr Rajoy said government imposed direct rule Catalonia following long debate
I believe prudent made effort get support everybody including giving chance change course believed made wrong decision said
The trial began two weeks ago expected last three months That means time Spaniards return polls April 28 Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez called snap general election
Mr Sánchez leads minority Socialist government called election losing support erstwhile Catalan allies Parliament suffering major defeat lawmakers rejected national budget
Catalonia expected feature heavily election campaign main opposition parties promise snuff ongoing secessionism challenge region elected Pablo Casado replaced Mr Rajoy leader conservative Popular Party recently accused Mr Sánchez treason holding unsuccessful talks current separatist leader Catalonia Quim Torra
Instead Popular Party antisecessionist party Ciudadanos want restore direct rule Catalonia unless Mr Torra fully abandons independence ambitions Going step Vox farright party wants put Spain back tight central control abolish system regional governments created part Spains return democracy death Gen Francisco Franco 1975
Vox hoping gain first seats national Parliament April following breakthrough regional election Andalusia December Lawyers Vox also seeking much longer prison sentences 12 defendants Supreme Court trial sought state prosecutors
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Adam Nossiter
PARIS For third successive week tens thousands people took streets capital cities across Algeria Friday protest fifth term countrys gravely ill president Abdelaziz Bouteflika new cracks opened longstanding authoritarian regime
Many protesters Friday started marching even end weekly prayers new development become wildfire popular revolt organized largely social media
The streets Algiers packed demonstrators movement inside crowds impossible observers reported At one point crowds forced barriers blocking access presidential palace Mouradia
The demonstrations largely nonviolent although clashes demonstrators police used tear gas The police detained 195 people Algerian state television reported
This revolutionary situation said Lahouari Addi Algeria specialist emeritus professor Institute Political Studies Lyon The protests huge Its whole population wants see go
As important ruling party members top business leaders even mouthpiece countrys powerful armed force began siding demonstrators
On Friday seven prominent members ruling National Liberation Front party successor liberation movement freed Algeria French rule resigned party express support protesters according Algerian media
Earlier week powerful organization former liberationwar combatants Moujahidin saluted civilized behavior antigovernment demonstrators denounced corruption heart power hierarchy Several chief executives resigned industry bosses league support protest well though head remains close Mr Bouteflika
Perhaps significant El Djeich magazine countrys powerful army published editorial Friday hinting support mainly youthful protesters
In veiled language typically used countrys nomenklatura editorial spoke Algerian armys common destiny people unity shared vision future hailed countrys youth less patriotic youth yesterday
The army person chief staff 79yearold Mohamed Gaïd Salah heart clique rules Algeria today Analysts said editorial El Djeich implications countrys future armys current posture
It shows sea Mr Addi said telephone interview Lyon They looking way saying people We
Mr Bouteflika publicly addressed country seven years Barely able talk stroke represented government rallies framed portrait known The Frame He currently undergoing treatment Switzerland Friday police arrested popular opposition activist Rachid Nekkaz demonstrating Mr Bouteflikas hospital
The antigovernment demonstrations began several weeks ago ruling party indicated despite presidents evident infirmity Mr Bouteflika would candidate fifth term office
That enough many Algerians abided awkwardly years rule absentee president around shared spoils power
Within days protesters took streets placards reading Game Over The demonstrations extraordinary authoritarian regime grown weekly since
With single figure opposition capable uniting protesters Mr Addi said impossible predict situation would resolve view shared seasoned Algeriawatchers
It could government national unity said It could committee public safety Nobody knows
Last weekend effort hold even bigger demonstrations government offered set early elections Mr Bouteflika win new term April outcome Algerians consider foregone conclusion appease street
In streets Algiers Friday protesters insisted determination keep marching goal achieved Mr Bouteflikas bowing election
This movement giving hope hope I lost said Meriem 54yearold university professor like others declined give last name fear government reprisals And hope protests organize Sure always afraid violence But better afraid die slow death And case I hope afraid today
Im demonstrating today made us hate lives said Samia 30yearold mother two lives suburbs Algiers Her children place play said Weve tried free years And still waiting
Mohamed Lamine 22yearold student said Its whole system I want get rid I know well I finish studies I future country
One countrys leading opposition figures Mohcine Belabbas predicted movement would continue And suggested larger goal overtaken original one Mr Bouteflikas ouster
The people determination fight system said Mr Belabbas head Rally Culture Democracy party joined protesters streets Algiers Friday There cant turning back
Its rejecting fifth term Bouteflika said
Its rejection whole system said We political moment like one preceding outbreak Algerian Revolution
Hadjer Guenanfa contributed reporting Algiers



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Theyve brought government Now could bring entire country
By Omar G Encarnación
Mr Encarnación professor expert Spanish politics
Anyone looking evidence irrational politics look Catalonia right
Earlier month Catalan separatists Spanish Parliament voted 2019 national budget proposal Socialist prime minister Pedro Sánchez forcing snap general election late April The separatists retaliating Mr Sánchez would agree referendum Catalan independence The last referendum organized October 2017 declared illegal Spains Constitutional Tribunal boycotted opposed independence plunged Spain deepest political crisis since death Gen Francisco Franco 1975
In forcing early elections potential fall Sánchez government came power June following vote confidence Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy conservative Popular Party Catalan separatists appear willing forfeit best chance decades advance Catalan autonomy The Sánchez government supported dialogue Catalan separatists appointed many Catalans prominent cabinet positions including Meritxell Batet responsible managing regional affairs agreed substantial increase public spending Catalonia 2019 It even consented talks amending Spanish Constitution expand autonomy Spains regions
Those gains could quickly erased Popular Party returned power something separatists apparently aware voted budget proposal The newspaper El País reported separatist leaders voted long faces knew likely contributing rise new government could reimpose direct control Madrid Catalonia Rajoy government 2017
Indeed chances new rightwing government Madrid would even intolerant Catalan separatism Mr Rajoy Since Mr Rajoys departure office Popular Party hardened stance Catalan separatism small measure rise Vox new farright party made splash regional elections Andalusia December 12 seats Andalusian Parliament platform combined antiimmigrant rhetoric hard line Catalonia crisis Vox gone far call abolishing altogether Spains system regional autonomy outlawing separatist political parties
Why would separatists possibly want outcome For simple reason viable path securing Catalan independence remains elusive Since 2011 conservative social democratic governments Madrid rejected statesanctioned independence referendum Catalonia So Catalan separatists banking political victimhood best strategy rebooting independence project To need depict Catalonia victim Madrids brutal oppression hopes would earn cause international support
Carles Puigdemont president Catalonia fled Belgium remains today escape prosecution Spanish authorities declared Catalonia independent republic exploiting violence around 2017 referendum demonstrate lengths Madrid go deny Catalans right selfdetermination On recent trip United States Quim Torra Mr Puigdemonts successor accused Spanish government violating civil political rights Catalonia holding political prisoners At home Catalan separatists framed trial began month 12 organizers illegal referendum charges rebellion sedition persecution Catalan nationalism
But victimhood strategy succeed separatists need better foil Madrid Mr Sánchez Socialist government Rather dialogue compromise separatists appear desire intolerance intransigence maybe even dose violence In words want Popular Party government supported Vox Ciudadanos centerright party Catalonia vehemently opposes Catalan independence Because fragmentation party system results election month away difficult predict But given recent polling easy imagine Popular Party support Ciudadanos Vox able oust Mr Sánchez
The consequences coalition government led Popular Party incorporating Vox would extend far beyond issue Catalonia It would first time far right made Spanish government since Francos death toll Spanish democracy would enormous It could bring assault hardwon rights women immigrants LGBT people It could also unleash wave nationalism seen Spain since Franco regime one would undermine regional home rule Catalonia also regions like Basque Country
Enabling rise far right government would also betrayal traditional values Catalan nationalist movement Since transition democracy movement placed Catalan autonomy ahead independence Its progressive wing represented Republican Left Catalonia political party founded 1930s proud history standing rights women workers sexual minorities
The separatists also need consider far clear rightwing government would bring region closer independence In fact result strategy victimization Catalonia could well diminish democracy Spain whole
Omar G Encarnación professor political studies Bard College author Democracy without Justice Spain The Politics Forgetting among books
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
Chinas vast detention program Muslims required police officers And recruits coming ethnic groups suppressed
Baimurat lives Kazakhstan says helped deliver hundreds fellow Muslims indoctrination camp Chinas Xinjiang region I came regret ever coming back China said That choice led awful thingsCreditCreditEmile Ducke The New York Times
Supported
By Austin Ramzy
ALMATY Kazakhstan The businesses started failed wife two children support So authorities Chinas far western Xinjiang region offered job auxiliary police Baimurat welcomed good pay benefits
For months stood roadside checkpoints looking people governments blacklist usually Muslim ethnic minorities As Kazakh Muslim sometimes felt uncomfortable work needed money
Then asked help bring 600 handcuffed people new facility stunned saw Officials called job training center basically prison toilets beds behind bars One detainee acquaintance barely recognized lost much weight
Mr Baimurat 39 suppressed emotions
There cameras everywhere recalled see look unhappy trouble
The Chinese government detained many million ethnic Uighurs Kazakhs Muslim minorities network indoctrination camps across Xinjiang provoking international condemnation In vastly expanded security apparatus sprawling strategically important region Chinas western frontier
This rapid buildup relied large part recruitment officers ethnic minorities authorities targeted dividing communities families forcing people like Mr Baimurat confront difficult choices
In series recent interviews Kazakhstan family fled last year Mr Baimurat offered rare firsthand glimpse workings Xinjiangs security forces dilemmas many employed grapple daily
Mr Baimurat goes one name said decided speak regretted working police Qitai county outside Urumqi regional capital He also described close came ending camp
I feel obligation I seen many people suffering camps said
Hua Chunying Foreign Ministry spokeswoman confirmed Mr Baimurat worked security Qitai months specified But said employed shopping center police accused lies
In several interviews though Mr Baimurats description experience remained consistent details match police recruitment notices accounts former camp detainees Auxiliary police China sometimes hired private contractors give police agencies flexibility add reduce staff
Since going public last month Mr Baimurat received anonymous telephone calls warning relatives China would placed camps recant said Serikzhan Bilash activist helps ethnic Kazakhs Xinjiang
Mr Baimurat immigrated Kazakhstan 2009 returned Xinjiang years later closer family After businesses opened selling fruit horse meat Kazakh specialty failed joined police 2017 said earning good salary 700 month decent benefits
His tasks included examining travelers vehicles IDs police checkpoints major roads He focused people government watch lists searching mobile phones content considered subversive
In particular officers told look images deadly ethnic riots Urumqi 2009 Mr Baimurat said
The authorities responded rioting security crackdown intensified deadly attacks 2013 2014 blamed Uighur separatists embrace radical Islam The government appointed new regional leader 2016 tightened controls blanketed Xinjiang surveillance
That recruitment auxiliary officers like Mr Baimurat took according James Leibold La Trobe University Australia Adrian Zenz European School Culture Theology Germany
By 2017 Xinjiangs police force five times size decade earlier according forthcoming paper Mr Zenz Mr Leibold The government recruited ethnic minorities particular part effort address simmering grievances providing jobs
Decades migration Han Chinas dominant ethnic group transformed Xinjiang fueling Uighur anxieties Uighurs majority 46 percent regions 22 people million people Han 40 percent Kazakhs 7 percent according government estimates
The Chinese government hoped economic development resourcerich region would ease tensions But many Uighurs Kazakhs complain left growth face discrimination hiring along stifling restrictions practice Islam cultures languages
Chinese officials quoted state media praised contributions minority police officers But join security forces often viewed suspicion authorities communities
Some typical degenerate traitors ethnic group said Dilxat Raxit Uighur activist Germany Some consciences wear uniform sake families safety
Tahir Imin Uighur activist Washington said four relatives worked police officers Xinjiang good jobs Uighurs
There big problems Uighur police ordinary people said People hate consider traitors call dogs Chinese
Mr Bilash Kazakh activist said ethnic Kazakhs fled Xinjiang hold Mr Baimurats work police
Nobody blames choice Mr Bilash said
Within police force Mr Baimurat said officers like scrutinized signs political disloyalty
He said required attend regular political indoctrination meetings memorize quotes Chinas president Xi Jinping Minority officers prohibited speaking anything Chinese added punished word Kazakh Uighur slipped
The worst experience said bringing people internment camp
The government presents camps part vocational training campaign steers Muslims away religious extremism halted violence Former inmates however say authorities hold people without charge force renounce religious beliefs
Evidence also emerged camps operating system forced labor
I came regret ever coming back China said That choice led awful things
Mr Baimurat another reason lament return The authorities discovered lived Kazakhstan obtained citizenship In recent years police come regard foreign ties grounds suspicion sending someone internment camp
Mr Baimurat decided get But family handed Kazakh passports returned China 2013 They trapped
I scared legs trembling recalled
Eventually contact another part China could call Kazakhstan without drawing attention able get Kazakh officials provide temporary travel documents said
At border police questioned family including young children hours letting Back Kazakh soil Mr Baimurat knelt thanks
We happy said It like come hell



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Its another sign President Trumps weakness
By David Leonhardt
Opinion Columnist
This article part David Leonhardts newsletter You sign receive weekday
President Trumps emergency declaration border wall based obvious falsehood There emergency USMexico border And goaded declaration Sean Hannity episode makes mockery federal government
But relative scheme Trumps misbehavior emergency declaration doesnt rank high Its corruption obstruction justice Its attempt undermine Americas alliance Western Europe And doesnt even matter much immigration policy If youre trying calibrate Trumprelated outrage take deep breath morning
A presidential declaration emergency order construct wall would stupid Lawfares Quinta Jurecic wrote It would wasteful It would test limits presidents authority law question But would step toward authoritarianism Heres longer version case
Listen The Argument podcast every Thursday morning Ross Douthat Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt
This challenged courts immediately pretty easy throw thing Neal Katyal former acting solicitor general predicted Lawrence ODonnells MSNBC show last night
Trumps fake emergency sign weakness strength tweeted The New Yorkers John Cassidy He ran wall two years Republican control Congress still couldnt get financed Weak president
And Philip Klein The Washington Examiner made conservative case declaration The hope limited government conservatives emergency declaration gets quickly enjoined eventually nixed federal court At least silver lining would legal precedent would set president attempt end around Congress
The China rivalry
Ive always thought Americans would come together realized faced dangerous foreign foe colleague David Brooks writes And lo behold one China Its become increasingly clear China grave economic technological intellectual threat United States world order
I agree United States complacent geopolitical challenge China poses
If subscriber newsletter subscribe You also join Twitter DLeonhardt Facebook
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
David Leonhardt former Washington bureau chief Times founding editor The Upshot head The 2020 Project future Times newsroom He 2011 Pulitzer Prize commentary columns financial crisis DLeonhardt Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Why American conservatism Trump may learn like state
By Ross Douthat
Opinion Columnist
Since conservatism became movement 1950s American right understood defending written American Constitution unwritten one well kind cultural social constitution deeply rooted national history checks balances official political system help sustain
Under constitution America three branches government great diversity power centers religious corporate familial philanthropic Under constitution important institutions national life arent political ones theyre institutions civil society flourished conservative argument goes precisely government kept within limits state hasnt coopted crushed rivals influence power
Thus conservatives preach virtues limited government isnt Herbert Hoovers rugged individual imagine defending They envision larger communitarian panoply civic associations religious denominations charities universities private schools needs protection jealousy centralizing state And tend assume keeping American corporation embedded communitarian system better way balance productivity innovation publicspiritedness trying regulate micromanage businesses good behavior
If wanted summarize intellectual uncertainties conservatives Trump era could say right trying figure whether unwritten American constitution imagines defending still exists And doesnt failing whether means limited government slogan strategy increasingly irrelevant comes shaping society conservatives would like America
The latter argument Donald Trump implicitly pressed optimistic opponents 2016 primaries They defenders American dream conservatives long defined dark conspiratorial tones businessman rival raised set uncomfortable questions Is America still nation thriving local communities energetic civic life Is America still deeply religious country strong churches growing denominations Are American businessmen basically public spirited eager compete equal terms government removes heavy hand natural allies political movement wedded patriotism religion
For years conservative critics sociologists intellectuals acknowledging answers might countrys oncerich associational civic religious life declining dissolving corporate America embraces conservative slogans keep taxes low unions weak otherwise seems postpatriotic performatively woke silent majority hardworking pious culturally conservative bluecollar families essentially defunct
Many best conservative books last decade Coming Apart Charles Murray The Fractured Republic Yuval Levin describe emerging America doesnt much resemble Tocquevillian familychurchcommunity landscape familiar past conservative descriptions American exceptionalism The latest example Alienated America Why Some Places Thrive While Others Collapse Tim Carney mix sociology shoeleather reporting convincingly situates rise Trump context Middle Americas communitarian collapse
But accounts like Carneys acknowledge role economic forces globalization trade deindustrialization dissolution family community also tend insist contra liberals new socialist vanguard also contra Trump cultural collapse isnt primarily driven economic policy decisions cant reversed public policies programs Instead tend suggest state interventions often replace community instead strengthening cast communitarian revival necessarily local project government play best supporting dontmakemattersworse kind role
These kind arguments still continuity basic conservative posture last generations But also increasingly partisans rupture right loose group statepower conservatives hint Tocquevillian dream dying cause limited government increasingly irrelevant turn would require conservatives become comfortable using power state engaged centralized policymaking specific social cultural ends mind
This argument visible controversy surrounding Tucker Carlsons monologue month ago stirred libertarian backlash calling Republicans use government policy make American life friendlier families particularly singleearner households It also informs difference Carneys book smart rightofcenter volume moment Oren Casss The Once Future Worker The two authors share certain common ground end Carney concludes current economic social ills solved even significantly ameliorated president central government Casss whole thesis wiser policymaking could make big difference unhappy heartlanders Carney profiles
But fullest case rupture declaring era limited government offered two recent essays conservative intellectual journals Dan McCarthys A New Conservative Agenda First Things Gladden Pappins Toward Party State American Affairs Both envision conservatism oriented less toward stateasenemy stateasdanger much toward stateasshaper stateasharmonizer For instance McCarthys account economic nationalism Donald Trump transmuted something less inchoate effective
Economic nationalism tariffs It less economic nationalism takes account different needs different walks life regions country serving whole serving parts drawing together In past challenge harmonize farmers urban capital labor The challenge balance groups postindustrial classes well strengthen productive economy largely fictional economy administrators clerks All sake prosperity raw dollar terms national economy provides basis healthy culture citizens families flourish
Pappin makes similar argument political coalitions especially right adapt current challenge illiberal postliberal forces populist socialist
Rather asking question What conservativesprogressives considerable advances made certain purely practical considerations How integrity national political community assured How commercial activity technological development continue turned toward common good toward strategic advantage What reins power state ensure common good citizens
The likely answers practical questions Pappin contends require conservatives make practical use administrative state rightwing ends rather constantly returning plaintive nostalgic counterproductive calls abolition
A hostile reader essays libertarian liberal might respond vision rightwing governments seek reshape culture mediate classes resembles nothing much early20th century fascism A sympathetic reader would say plenty space statefriendly conservative politics movement conservatism Mussolini McCarthy Pappin envisioning might better described blend American Hamiltonian tradition 21stcentury update French Gaullism
And subtle reader might say theyre trying provide theory move Republican Party power tends make anyway last two GOP presidents sense big government conservatives far without strategy seriousness selfconsciousness required make project success
I enough skepticism efficacy state power uncertain project succeed But postTrump conservatives likely drawn statepower conservatism theoretical ambition sense political necessity
The earlier conservative selfunderstanding right defending nongovernmental institutions power state tacitly depended assumption many nongovernmental institutions would friendly conservative values But civil society decayed recent decades remaining power centers also become increasingly leftwing
Alreadyliberal institutions universities Hollywood big foundations mass media uniformly allied left even recent past Corporate America happily donates Republicans fears Bernie Sanders presidency cultural issues big business courts younger customers progressive lobbying propaganda In religion Catholicism Pope Francis aspires scandals permitting ease way leftward well leaving evangelical Christianity isolated bastion little cultureshaping power
Yet conservatives still win White House Congress means one power center hope control one notionally organized limit administrative state
If assume people tend seek power devise justifications seeking power plausibly exercised statepower conservatives may need strongest intellectual arguments change way right thinks state Instead limited government conservatism may give way attempt improve Trumpism clearer blueprints smarter cadres reason changes often happen political ideology people whose thinking changing feel dont choice
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTOpinion Instagram join Facebook political discussion group Voting While Female
Ross Douthat Opinion columnist The Times since 2009 He author several books recently To Change Church Pope Francis Future Catholicism You follow Twitter DouthatNYT
You follow Twitter DouthatNYT
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Eurotunnel sued Department Transport handling contracts provide extra freight capacity
By Amie Tsang
LONDON Add list headaches faced Britains government frantically tries prepare Brexit 33 million pound 44 million payment settle lawsuit brought Eurotunnel company operates rail link France Britain
Eurotunnel sued Britains Department Transport handling contracts provide extra transportation capacity event country leaves European Union without deal place
The company accused British government limiting competition open bidding contracts worth millions dollars according court filings
In December Britains government signed contracts DFDS Danish shipping company Brittany Ferries French company supply extra freight capacity bring essential goods medicines country event nodeal Brexit
The government also signed contract Seaborne Freight ferry company later found BBC run ferry service The deal came heavy criticism one lawmaker calling shell company The firm also ridiculed echoing website terms conditions business specializing takeout meals Seaborne Freight pulled contract
The government settled case Eurotunnel avoid prolonged legal tussle tries make arrangements March 29 country scheduled exit European Union
Government departments Britains businesses furiously preparing case country leaves European Union without agreement setting terms separation There fears lack clarity port arrangements could lead gridlock roads problems getting food medicine people Britain
We taking steps ensure supply chains continue function whatever circumstances departure mitigation place avoid disruption borders Stephen Barclay Brexit secretary said statement Friday
Chris Grayling transport secretary added While disappointing Eurotunnel chose take legal action contracts place ensure smooth supply vital medicines I pleased agreement ensure Channel Tunnel ready postBrexit world
Eurotunnel agreed withdraw case take unspecified actions improve security traffic flow
Eurotunnel concluded outofcourt agreement secretary state transport ensure Channel Tunnel remains preferred route vital goods travel EU UK company said
Amie Tsang general assignment business reporter based London covered variety topics including gender pay gap aviation London Fatberg amietsang
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday Want email Sign
Bipartisan negotiations forge border security deal broke yesterday potentially setting federal government another shutdown ahead Friday deadline
What happened The impasse appears center Democratic demands limit number unauthorized immigrants already country could detained Immigration Customs Enforcement officers according aides familiar talks according NYT Republicans wanted exception cap criminals Democrats said proposed 16500bed cap left enough room
Whats stake The last shutdown longest US history cost American economy 11 billion tanked President Trumps political standing public Another shutdown could cause economic harm hitting IRS tax season starts
Whats next Lawmakers could pass another shortterm spending bill though many reluctant punt final budget agreement Meanwhile Mr Trump preparing hold rally supporters El Paso Many city arent happy But really two choices according Axios shut government declare national emergency get border wall money options horrible
The Amazon founder risked embarrassment going public said extortion attempt The National Enquirer So far hes scoring big points Saturday Night Live jokes aside
His disclosure gotten results Federal prosecutors reviewing extortion claim NYT reports citing unnamed sources If The Enquirers parent company broke law would violation nonprosecution agreement paying hush money help President Trump 2016 A lawyer publishers chairman said yesterday company committed crime
And hes winning PR battle At time billionaires reviled Maureen Dowd NYT writes richest dude earth managed come traumatic week inspiring admiration Glenn Greenwald The Intercept counters would odd Mr Bezos gain pity given Amazon critical partner US government building evermore invasive militarized sprawling surveillance state
Where The Enquirer go wrong Danny Westneat The Seattle Times points picked fight head company powerful got Seattle change tax policies 3 billion tax incentives New York office space You dont pressure Amazon It goes way around Mr Westneat writes
But Mr Bezos could still lose Jon Swartz Barrons notes Amazon shares fell 26 percent Friday His handson management considered crucial success company anything pulls attention away daytoday management least concern investors Mr Swartz writes
Fears Britains withdrawal EU could roil economies officially spread across Atlantic
Wall Street warned Brexits impact With less seven weeks go UK due leave EU several SP 500 groups first time put Wall Street formal notice risks London Brussels fail reach divorce deal FT reports Companies like Lockheed Martin McCormick Expedia Cadbury spoken
Driving concern fears depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable Britain costs imported British goods could rise Theres also fear broader effect Brexit global political economic stability
American banks also nervous While US banks want Britain maintain closest possible ties EU Brexit UK banks insurers anxious dont become beholden new laws made Brussels Bloomberg reports
More Brexit news The EUs chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said reopen existing Brexit deal open reworking political declaration accompanies The British government trying secure extra two weeks win concessions Europe promising lawmakers another vote Britains withdrawal options And Prime Minister Theresa May also offered concessions opposing Labour Party break current impasse Parliament
Americans getting rude surprise Their refunds appear getting smaller despite President Trump Republicans passing huge set tax cuts year ago
How big drop The average refund 1865 84 percent smaller average refund period last year Reuters reports citing figures IRS Heather Long WaPo adds number people receiving refund fallen nearly 25 percent far The IRS warns read much figures part data result delayed processing due government shutdown
Why happening Its actually sign Americans paying taxes People generally got piece tax cut last year gradually form lower withholding paychecks Joseph Rosenberg UrbanBrookings Tax Policy Center told WaPo
People angry nonetheless The WaPo reports People already taken social media using hashtag GOPTaxScam vent anger Many blame President Trump Republicans shrinking refunds Some Twitter even said wouldnt vote Trump seeing refunds slashed
The last class tech companies gained valuations 1 billion including Uber Airbnb remade entire industries Dont expect next wave nearly flashy according Erin Griffith NYT
Who They names like Benchling Checkr Zola many create software specific industries including data analysis systems farmers background checks gig workers
Why arent exciting predecessors Ms Griffith points Uber Airbnb peers built global empires simply taking existing businesses like taxis food delivery hotels making mobile Easy opportunities disrupt traditional businesses dried forcing new companies find smaller niches
But dont underestimate potential Maybe sexy companies first wave venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded NYT But Anand Sanwal data provider CB Insights said still growing fast adding If one highmomentum companies investors going beating door much interest investing next big winner
Christine Lagarde managing director International Monetary Fund warned yesterday global economy growing slowly anticipated
She sees four big risks Trade tensions tariff escalations financial tightening uncertainty related Brexit outcome spillover impact accelerated slowdown Chinese economy clouds horizon told World Government Summit Dubai
And could spell trouble When many clouds added takes one lighting bolt start storm
But IMF thinks Fed playing smart The fact Fed put pause raising rates going provide lot support economy Gita Gopinath IMFs top economist told FT We endorse Fed view datadriven approach
President Trump expected sign executive order today meant spur development regulation artificial intelligence Cade Metz NYT writes
The news Mr Trump introduce American AI Initiative aims better educate workers field improve access cloud computing services data needed build AI systems promote cooperation foreign powers
Context AI experts across industry academia government long called Trump administration make development artificial intelligence major priority Mr Metz writes adding concerned China could surpass United States development technologies
But The order set aside funds AI research development Mr Metz adds administration provided details put new policies effect
Steve Mandel stepped head hedge fund Lone Pine Capital
Among reasons Santander rescinded offer hire investment banker Andrea Orcel Reportedly desire attend World Economic Forum Davos Switzerland
Kristina Salen former chief financial officer shopping site Etsy joined Moda Operandi luxury fashion startup CFO
The English Premier League looking America successor CEO Richard Scudamore British candidates appear uninterested job
Deals
The aluminumparts maker Arconic plans break WSJ
Apollo Global Management reportedly near deal buy Cox Enterprisess 14 regional TV stations 3 billion Reuters
The medical equipment maker Smith Nephew reportedly held talks buy NuVasive maker medical instruments spinal surgeries 3 billion FT
TPG Capital closed seventh Asiafocused private equity fund 46 billion Reuters
Politics policy
Democratic lawmakers proposing steep new taxes superrich public loves NYT
Senator Michael Bennet Democrat Colorado potential presidential candidate says cutting private health insurance part Medicare bad opening offer Politico
President Trump succeeded dividing Democrats warning socialism Hill
The biggest star Clive Daviss exclusive preGrammys gala Speaker Nancy Pelosi AP
Trade
Trade talks US China resume today Beijing Straits Times
White House officials reportedly discussed summit meeting President Trump President Xi Jinping China MaraLago next month resolve trade fight Axios
The trade agreement replace Nafta faces uphill climb Congress Axios
Tech
Some Amazon executives reportedly reconsidering decision set campus New York opponents think might bluff WSJ Recode
Huawei threatened sue Czech Republic countrys cybersecurity agency rescind warning risk company poses nations critical infrastructure NYT
Sprint accused ATT false advertising saying rival incorrectly telling customers receiving 5G data service WSJ
Tesla may finally delivering Model 3s cant keep servicing WSJ
Best rest
A new activist hedge fund Impactive Capital rarity Its female minorityled WSJ
Household staples diapers baking soda may get expensive WSJ
US colleges raised 467 billion year ended last June led Harvard 14 billion Bloomberg
Heres rundown 100 sustainable US companies according Barrons Barrons
How Feds recent Uturn rates cascaded global markets NYT
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ivan Nechepurenko
MOSCOW Russian lawmakers moving restrict freedom speech passed bills Thursday would introduce jail terms fines insulting government online spreading socalled fake news
The bills seen effort preempt control public criticism Russias prolonged economic stagnation pushes Kremlins approval ratings They reflect nearly twodecadelong project President Vladimir V Putin put information flow state control push made difficult growth internet
The new measures await final passage upper chamber parliament Mr Putins signature He expressed support restrictions insulting state online
One set bills passed lower house Duma would subject private individuals fines 3000 15 days administrative arrest insulting government online Individuals would face fines 6000 posting termed fake news
Another bill would demand news media outlets websites remove information shows clear disrespect society state symbols Russian Constitution government Internet service providers website owners would one day remove insults face complete block
Lawmakers also passed bill would force websites immediately remove false publicly important information government watchdog deems threat public order
The measures stipulate clearly would considered fake news The authors said interviews would determined state prosecutors government communications watchdog
Critics said measures loosely defined allow government block information online finds undesirable
With bills wording vague possible Vladimir A Ryzhkov opposition politician said Facebook create possibilities widest possible arbitrariness law enforcement As result societys trust government fall public atmosphere poisoned
As Russians switch television largely controlled state Kremlin allies internet main source information government made keeping web control top priority
In February lawmakers proposed creating infrastructure separate Russia global internet altogether Last year state banned Telegram popular messaging app
The Russian government opened assault socalled fake news even United States accused Moscow engaging practice disinformation campaign intended sway 2016 American presidential election
The new bills passed Russians trust government agencies Mr Putin particular steadily declining For first time since annexation Crimea 2014 number Russians say country heading wrong direction surpassed say opposite The finding came poll conducted January independent pollster Levada
The share people approve Mr Putins work president declined 20 percentage points since reached postCrimea peak 86 percent 2015
Nikolai F Uskov editor Forbes Russia magazine frequent commentator said bills governments weapon media
The government clearly getting ready protest moods grow reflected publications social networks media said speaking Ekho Moskvy radio station I dont think save state added wave anger sweep away restrictions
Follow Ivan Nechepurenko Twitter INechepurenko


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By David Zucchino Fahim Abed
KABUL Afghanistan Afghanistans coalition government fired Tuesday commissioners directed fraudtainted parliamentary elections last fall country prepares presidential race summer watches leaders sidelines peace talks unfold Americans Taliban
The move follows push opposition politicians postpone election form interim government part peace deal could include Taliban President Ashraf Ghani fumed governments exclusion AmericanTaliban talks insisted election held time
The firings came series meetings government civil society groups political parties portrayed badly needed consensus electoral reform The commissioners called dismissal political decision officials hope serve new government
The election already pushed back April July The panel behind decision Independent Election Commission one two whose members removed Tuesday
Replacement commissioners named Mr Ghani coalition partner Abdullah Abdullah charged preparing presidential election feature men candidates
Mr Ghani said central government strong mandate negotiate behalf country The Taliban dealing directly Americans refused include Afghan government consider illegitimate
Zalmay Khalilizad leader American delegation said last week hoped secure peace deal July election He said last month United States Taliban agreed principle framework peace deal
The Afghan election commission widely accused sowing confusion disarray October parliamentary elections three years late tainted accusations voterigging bribery incompetence Winners certified third 250 seats Parliament
The attorney generals office prosecuted 313 people accused violations including forging selling election stickers national ID cards needed cast vote
In statement late Tuesday office said 12 commissioners two election bodies barred leaving country investigators appointed look charges abuse authority
The firings set legal confrontation dismissed members saying move violated election law
The amendment election law presidential decree president also candidate Constitution commissioners said joint statement This political decision legal constitutional one
Mr Ghanis deputy spokesman Shahhusain Murtazawi said election results remain place He said protests could lodged second affected commission called Independent Election Complaint Commission judicial groups The head commissions secretariat remains place acting director
Given officials administered election fired roughly 2000 losing candidates expected protest If results reexamined canceled would affect preparations presidential election already behind schedule assurance required funding place
One losing parliamentary candidate Fawad Aman said anyone seated Parliament would remain cloud suspicion And commissioners punished said Afghans could lose faith electoral process refrain voting
If dismissed prosecuted means political game president influence election commissions presidential election Mr Aman said
Nayim Ayubzada head Transparent Election Foundation Afghanistan independent election monitoring group said firings made hastily government paid little attention legal process addressing fraud accusations
We worry decision president candidate may things turn things favor Mr Ayubzada said If decides hastily election issues raise questions transparency elections
Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah appoint new heads members commissions selected candidates put forward civil society groups political parties within next week
Supporters firings said necessary make commissioners accountable bungling expensive election process secured Afghan forces amid raging war Each Afghan election bankrolled international donations proved least problematic last
The 2014 presidential election fraudulent two leading candidates claimed victory nearly tore country apart prompted Western officials step mediators John Kerry secretary state negotiated powersharing government top two candidates Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah promise would prioritize election reforms avoid another fiasco
The two men slow make progress reforms given infighting government war Taliban Now Mr Ghani Mr Abdullah get name new commissioners oversee election peak summer fighting season peace process plays
Those challenges left many Afghans skeptical new commissioners Mr Ayubzada election observer said doubted presidential election would even held year process overshadowed ongoing peace talks political dealing
Mujib Mashal contributed reporting Kandahar Afghanistan




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Tuesday Want email Sign
Democratic Republican negotiators said last night agreement principle border security funding could keep federal government open
The deal includes 138 billion pay 55 miles new fencing technology staffing border protection Its 57 billion President Trump demanded build 200mile wall Democrats waived demand limits detention capacity immigrants
But theres guarantee go The House Senate would vote pact Mr Trump would sign I think everyone say Good work Representative Kay Granger Texas one Republican negotiators said Still rally Texas last night Mr Trump insisted build wall And influential Republican commentators like Fox News host Sean Hannity called deal garbage compromise
The remaining alternatives hugely unattractive Politico notes potential White House plan redirect unspent federal funds toward wall would create firestorm And another government shutdown could hit US economy endanger aviation safety
The British prime minister scheduled update lawmakers later today progress negotiations withdrawing EU
She big favor ask Mrs May focused making changes socalled backstop exit deal designed prevent hard border Ireland Northern Ireland She made little headway Bloomberg explains plan today
Mrs May update Parliament progress talks EU outline motion shell put MPs debate Thursday office said
She expected ask Parliament restate demand remove backstop Withdrawal Agreement promise vote hasnt brought renegotiated deal back Parliament Feb 27
The aim reassure members across House Commons concerned May deliberately running clock risking potentially disastrous nodeal divorce
But EU still isnt budging Its chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said yesterday something give British side
Yet Mrs May could force plan Parliament Bloomberg explains though also admits lot could go wrong
More Brexit news Britain weakest economic growth six years last year It signed trade deal Switzerland biggest since 2016 Brexit referendum And government sued awarding contract freight shipments nodeal Brexit ferry company boats
The former Fed chairman recently sat Ray Dalio Bridgewater Capital wideranging conversation topics state US principles good government Dont time watch Here highlights
On Washington Mr Volcker lamented condition US government repeating past criticisms Youve got presidents dont seem mind either personal behavior making outrageous statements true told Mr Dalio You Congress thats unable function effectively
On Civil Service For former Fed chairman important problem solve make government work appear honorable Public administrations bad word told Mr Dalio leaving important government departments without effective leaders
What Mr Volcker He set Volcker Alliance meant help schools train future government officials Its great trick Mr Volcker said How get expertise leadership need still respect popular desire
Optimism personal finances hasnt high 16 years according study Gallup
Sixtynine percent Americans expect better time next year That two percentage points alltime high 71 percent recorded March 1998 according Gallup Thats survey carried Jan 2 Jan 10 middle government shutdown
Half respondents say theyre better year ago That figure consistently half since 2007 Gallup says
The optimism hard overstate Only 11 times 109 polls stretching back 1976 least half polled said better financial shape year prior Gallup notes Only 114 polls going back 1977 Americans optimistic personal finances coming year today
Europe sleepwalking oblivion people Europe need wake late George Soros writes opinion piece Project Syndicate
Neither leaders ordinary citizens seem understand experiencing revolutionary moment range possibilities broad eventual outcome thus highly uncertain
The next inflection point elections European Parliament May 2019 Unfortunately antiEuropean forces enjoy competitive advantage balloting
The first step defending Europe enemies internal external recognize magnitude threat present The second awaken sleeping proEuropean majority mobilize defend values EU founded
The firm said yesterday would buy Solium Capital manages stock paid corporate employees 900 million Its biggest deal major Wall Street firm since financial crisis whats rationale
The bank wants millennial wealth Soliums clients include startups like Instacart Stripe could go public multibilliondollar valuations making employees rich
Wall Street approves strategy Analysts Evercore ISI wrote yesterday Solium gives Morgan Stanley real path towards organic growth next generation clients many investors questioning Matthew Klein Barrons wrote last week millennials could hold key improving American productivity wealth
And banks seem newly hungry deals Days Morgan Stanleys acquisition BBT agreed buy SunTrust biggest bank merger since 2008 crisis Banking chiefs seem heartened loosened regulations sector eager capitalize acquisitions Wed like James Gorman Morgan Stanleys CEO told WSJ And JPMorgan Chase reportedly considered buying asset manager WisdomTree according Bloomberg
Its eight months Mario Draghis finishes nonrenewable term president European Central Bank Choosing successor important difficult WSJ reports
Investors trusted Mr Draghi WSJ says navigate toxic mix risks Europe Brexit trade wars
At least five unofficial candidates appear running replace according European officials two Frenchmen two Finns German The candidates different economic philosophies clear frontrunner
The winner might chosen balance nationalities EUs leadership rather purely merit The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo chief executive Centre European Policy Studies Brussels think tank risks Its systemically important job Europe man controls show said It go badly wrong
WSJ reporters scoured fourthquarter results US companies attempt better understand slowing Chinas economic growth
What found Many companies struggling weaker demand export manufacturers China pulling back amid fears trade tensions worsen Austen Hufford Theo Francis WSJ report Retailers companies catering Chinese consumers face signs weakness among countrys growing middle class They buying fewer cars phones traveling less
The conclusion The indications slowing growth broad still modest Mr Hufford Mr Francis write
Just half PGEs directors stand reelection year utility filed bankruptcy amid California wildfires
ColgatePalmolive named Noel Wallace COO chief executive replacing Ian Cook
GV venture capital arm Alphabet hired David Schenkein former CEO Agios Pharmaceuticals cohead life sciences
Apple named Frank Casanova longtime iPhone executive first head marketing augmented reality
Sony appointed Jim Ryan CEO PlayStation business
Deals
Colony Capital investment firm founded real estate mogul Tom Barrack explore selling assets activist hedge fund Blackwells Capital took stake Colony
SoftBanks Vision Fund led 940 million investment Nuro driverless delivery startup FT
Amazon agreed buy Eero makes wireless routers advance smarthome ambitions Reuters
Peloton makes videostreaming stationary bikes treadmills reportedly interviewing banks prepare IPO WSJ
DoorDash delivery startup reportedly process raising 500 million 6 billion valuation WSJ
Reddit raised 150 million Tencent users fear censorship Verge
Politics policy
President Trump Gov Andrew Cuomo New York meet today discuss revising cap deductions state local taxes Bloomberg
Democratic presidential contenders see small donors rather traditional wealthy backers test viability 2020 race WaPo
Contrary popular belief Mr Trumps presidency hurt Americas gun lobby NYT editorial
Trade
President Trump reportedly eager meet President Xi Jinping China discuss trade deal Bloomberg
American tariffs Chinese goods reduced two countries trade imbalance without helping US companies Axios
Chinese investments Israeli tech companies raising security concerns WSJ
Tech
Whats like contractor one Apples less glamorous offices Not much fun Bloomberg
Mars One Ventures promised oneway trips red planet bankrupt Verge
If New York doesnt want new Amazon campus Newark Bloomberg
Alphabet Microsoft discreetly warning AI could harm brands Wired
The Jeff Bezos saga
The American Media Inc lawyer reportedly sought deal Mr Bezoss private photos Amazon Kindle executive WSJ
American Media reportedly asked Justice Department whether needed register foreign agent ties Saudi Arabia WSJ
The WaPo found tricky situation reporting owners fight The National Enquirer cause battle NYT
Best rest
Could leveraged loans sink US economy FT
For two years Goldman Sachs bet companies strong balance sheets Not anymore CNBC
The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says theres mania share buybacks hes worried social consequences CNBC
Toys R Us planning comeback later year NYT
Is corporate America headed toward earnings recession DealBook
Thanks reading Well see tomorrow
Wed love feedback Please email thoughts suggestions businessnytimescom
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Chinas openingup policies led improvements life business

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role posts creation
Advertisement
Supported
New Zealands prime minister moved swiftly ban weapons mass killing gunman attacked two mosques
By The Editorial Board
The editorial board represents opinions board editor publisher It separate newsroom OpEd section
The murder 50 Muslim worshipers New Zealand allegedly 28yearold Australian white supremacist long scrutinized way violent hatreds spawned staged social media internet But world learn way Jacinda Ardern New Zealands prime minister responded horror
Almost immediately last Fridays killings Ms Ardern listened constituents outrage declared within days government would introduce new controls militarystyle weapons Christchurch shooter many mass killers United States used rampages And delivered
On Thursday Ms Ardern announced ban militarystyle semiautomatic automatic weapons parts used turn rifles weapons highcapacity ammunition magazines Its us said national interest safety
Earlier week told Parliament social media sites must address ease internet used spew hate images violence We simply sit back accept platforms exist said responsibility place published said It case profit responsibility
Ms Ardern didnt propose immediate measures limit reach Facebook Twitter internet publishers obvious could done without trampling freedom speech But made clear believed social media platforms like gun manufacturers dealers bore responsibility carnage visited Christchurch many communities recent years
The new gun proposal require considerable finetuning defining becomes law New Zealands existing laws relatively lenient large percentage estimated 12 million 15 million firearms owned 250000 people registered It known many become illegal new laws
But display one deranged man weapons designed combat seemed persuade majority New Zealanders strong majority Parliament need ban rapidfiring weapons
That attitude stood stark contrast way National Rifle Association political allies United States resisted restrictions weapons like AR15 semiautomatic rifle used several mass killings
In New Zealand took one mass shooting awaken government In United States even string mass killings 26 dead school Newtown Conn 49 nightclub Orlando 58 concert Las Vegas 17 school Parkland Fla enough Nor fact 73 percent Americans say needs done curb gun violence according recent polling
The ban terrorists weapon choice one areas Ms Ardern showed leadership looks like time crisis In lieu trite messages donned black head scarf led group politicians visit victims families speaking without script school victims attended urged pupils let New Zealand place tolerance racism Ever She told grieving families We know grief walk every stage
And striking gesture refused utter name suspected killer He may sought notoriety New Zealand give nothing said Not even name
After atrocity worlds leaders unite clearly condemning racism sharing grief victims stripping haters weapons Ms Ardern shown way
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Get 3D view Chinas government plans 2019

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role posts creation
Advertisement
Supported
The journalist Maria Ressa facing criminal charges social media threats
By Kara Swisher
Ms Swisher covers technology contributing opinion writer
Harassing journalists one Rodrigo Dutertes specialties Mr Duterte strongman president Philippines going Maria Ressa former CNN reporter founder online news site Rappler two years The campaign combines criminal charges Facebook smears intended tarnish reputation spread lies work
Last week Ms Ressa spent night jail charge cyberlibel 2012 article Rappler published allegations corrupt ties businessman judge
When spoke Skype Thursday attempts silence said I adjust normal even nothing normal She added It scare meant scare everyone else
Technically spent night conference room rather cell National Bureau Investigation agents trying nice told
It perhaps small gracious act relentless assault Ms Ressa Rappler
Kara Swisher answered questions Twitter
Rappler President Dutertes brutal regime publishing articles extrajudicial killings human rights abuses In mid2017 State Union speech president struck back criticizing Rappler owned Americans investors indeed United States He attempted get license revoked Ms Ressa charged tax evasion Then arrest cyberlibel considered criminal act
While seemed tired legal roadblocks undaunted even funny spoke I think I paid bail Imelda Marcos said referring shoeloving wife longtime ruler Philippines went ignominy
It morning Manila journalism Instead adding security Rapplers offices protect 100 employees forking money pay lawyers Legal fees already account quarter operating budget said
She also contending relentless manipulation social media says governmentfriendly sources spread false information Rappler These trolls focus Facebook Filipinos get news She called foreign agent troublemaker tax cheat traitor ugly
Last week two people Ms Ressa suspects working government managed slip Rapplers building broadcast video Facebook Live outside door urging protests social media attacks Among comments feed Hang Ressa Bomb Ressa Behead
Government officials said enjoying attention She Ms Ressa reported video Facebook She already provided company copious evidence way platform abused Mr Dutertes troll army This time Facebook responded blocking user posted video 30 days may popped Facebook Singapore though
Its catandmouse game Ms Ressa said Facebook haphazard enforcing rules While individual executives helpful Ms Ressa said shes hard time dealing Facebook responded slowly
Facebook worlds largest distributor news yet refused gatekeeper told recent onstage interview And allow lies actually get playing field facts taints entire public sphere At point said Facebook take lies
As noted Thursday night A lie told million times truth On social media though like billion times
Ms Ressa said wished tried stop online abuse sooner We ignored far long lesson I learned
She said would continue try work Facebook social media outlets Looking social media feed impossible since I cant defend I watch reputation dragged said Lately Ms Ressa said attacks Twitter worsened And I weirdly pummeled platform users calling Ms Ressa con artist since I posted I speaking
To try deal Ms Ressa said thinks lot Reinhold Niebuhrs Serenity Prayer I look stuff area control like making sure staff safe business able continue said weary sigh I dont want story
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor Wed like hear think articles Here tips And heres email lettersnytimescom
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter NYTopinion Instagram sign Opinion Today newsletter
Kara Swisher editor large technology news website Recode producer Recode Decode podcast Code Conference contributing opinion writer karaswisher Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Charlotte GrahamMcLay
WELLINGTON New Zealand In New Zealand members public accustomed seeing top government officials grocery store street unencumbered security guards common parts world
The countrys prime minister Jacinda Ardern even jokingly recounted Stephen Colbert The Late Show approached chatty strangers shopped maternity bras
But Thursday morning government minister attacked walking work alone capital city leading Ms Ardern warn New Zealanders unusual level access countrys lawmakers taken granted
We environment New Zealand politicians accessible thats something feel proud Ms Ardern said We serve people But todays events really show take granted
The victim James Shaw 45 coleader leftleaning Green Party minister climate change told police grabbed hit Thursday morning attack leaving black eye cuts face After treated scene went attend meeting Parliament admitting examination hospital remained Thursday afternoon
Pete Huggins Green Party spokesman said Mr Shaw told police assailant knew name although officers said whether believe attack planned motivated
The episode rattled New Zealand Mr Huggins described closeknit community open society
Unlike many countries including United States Britain prime minister lawmaker accompanied roundtheclock security personnel government ministers lawmakers Residents Wellington New Zealands capital regularly see elected officials walking cycling streets alone politicians opt take public transportation rather using government vehicles
I would hate see go Marama Davidson lawmaker leads Green Party Mr Shaw said news conference Thursday
It would shame lose way people approach us access us country added Thats one things I value way politics New Zealand
The police arrested charged 47yearold man attack Mr Shaw The man police identify appear Wellington District Court Friday
Lawmakers across political spectrum joined condemning attack Wellingtons mayor Justin Lester wrote social media assailants behavior outrageous New Zealanders lucky unparalleled access elected representatives
Members public also expressed shock One Twitter user branded attack Mr Shaw assault democracy Another said hoped attack awful one canary coal mine moment New Zealand
Bryce Edwards veteran New Zealand political commentator said downtoearth qualities commanded respect New Zealanders We like politicians one us us said
While clear whether attack politically motivated lawmakers took opportunity denounce said trend toward overthetop reactions people disagreed politicians
David Parker trade minister lawmaker centerleft Labour Party cited called extreme opinion feeding political biases causing instability people fed social media platforms
Ms Ardern stopped short saying security beefed lawmakers The episode took place innercity area Wellington minutes Ms Arderns residence
Violence New Zealand lawmakers rare The last one make global headlines recent years 2016 government minister Steven Joyce hit face sex toy thrown protester episode caused mirth fury


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur
SHANGHAI The Chinese electronics giant Huawei preparing sue United States government barring federal agencies using companys products according two people familiar matter
The lawsuit filed Eastern District Texas Huawei American headquarters according people requested anonymity discuss confidential plans The company plans announce suit week
The move could aimed forcing United States government make case Chinese equipment maker publicly It part broad push Huawei defend campaign led United States undermine company Washington sees security threat Executives spoken strongly Americas actions new marketing campaigns aimed mending companys image among consumers
For many years United States officials said Beijing could use Huaweis telecommunication equipment spy disrupt communication networks The company denied allegations major wireless carriers ATT Verizon effectively prevented using Huaweis equipment result
Over past year Washington ramped pressure firm preparing take major role construction nextgeneration wireless networks around world American officials urged governments ban use Huaweis products This year Justice Department filed criminal charges company chief financial officer connection evading American sanctions Iran
A hearing set begin week Canada determine whether companys finance chief Meng Wanzhou extradited United States face charges Ms Mengs lawyers sued Canadian government police arguing circumstances arrest detention December violated rights
Many Canadians see Ms Mengs case example foreign moneys influence Vancouver
The criminal case Ms Meng United States could complicated comments President Trump White House engaged trade negotiations China While criminal cases traditionally independent matters Mr Trump indicated Huaweis fate could bargaining chip
During meeting Oval Office delegation Chinese officials last month Mr Trump said Well making decision asked would drop criminal charges Huawei part trade deal He added Well talking attorney general
A lawsuit Huawei United States expected challenge section defense spending authorization law approved last year The provision blocks executive agencies using telecom equipment made Huawei another Chinese company ZTE
According one people familiar matter Huawei likely argue provision bill attainder legislative act singles person group punishment without trial The Constitution forbids Congress pass bills
Huaweis plans final It could still decide change course file lawsuit
The United States Embassy Beijing immediately respond request comment A call placed outside business hours United States Court House Plano Tex Huaweis American headquarters answered
China announced espionage accusations former Canadian diplomat Monday days Ms Mengs extradition hearing set take place
In many ways Huawei case echoes another company aroused security concerns United States Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab
Around two years ago American officials began expressing worries Moscow could use companys software gather intelligence The company denied allegations But September 2017 Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies begin removing companys products government systems Congress codified ban spending law
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits response arguing prohibition amounted bill attainder In May judge District Columbia dismissed suits ruling Congress motivated legitimate desire protect government computer networks Russian intrusion The judge also said Kasperskys sales American government small fraction companys business ban especially harsh
An appeals court upheld ruling months later Banning Kaspersky prophylactic punitive measure judge appeal David S Tatel wrote
Given insignificant probability Kasperskys products could compromised federal systems magnitude harm intrusion could wrought Congresss decision remove Kaspersky federal networks represents reasonable balanced response Judge Tatel wrote
Raymond Zhong reported Shanghai Paul Mozur Hong Kong Alan Rappeport contributed reporting Washington
Follow Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur Twitter zhonggg paulmozur




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
It ’ another sign President Trump ’ weakness .
By David Leonhardt
Opinion Columnist
This article part David Leonhardt ’ newsletter . You sign receive weekday .
President Trump ’ emergency declaration border wall based obvious falsehood : There emergency U.S.-Mexico border . And goaded declaration Sean Hannity , episode makes mockery federal government .
But relative scheme Trump ’ misbehavior , emergency declaration ’ rank high . It ’ corruption obstruction justice . It ’ attempt undermine America ’ alliance Western Europe . And ’ even matter much immigration policy . If ’ trying calibrate Trump-related outrage , take deep breath morning .
“ A presidential declaration emergency order construct wall would stupid , ” Lawfare ’ Quinta Jurecic wrote . “ It would wasteful . It would test limits president ’ authority law question . But would , , step toward authoritarianism. ” ( Here ’ longer version case . )
[ Listen “ The Argument ” podcast every Thursday morning , Ross Douthat , Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt . ]
“ This challenged courts immediately , pretty easy throw thing , ” Neal Katyal , former acting solicitor general , predicted Lawrence O ’ Donnell ’ MSNBC show last night .
“ Trump ’ fake emergency sign weakness strength , ” tweeted The New Yorker ’ John Cassidy . “ He ran wall , two years Republican control Congress , still ’ get financed . Weak president . ”
And Philip Klein The Washington Examiner made conservative case declaration : “ The hope limited government conservatives emergency declaration gets quickly enjoined , eventually nixed , federal court . At least , silver lining would legal precedent would set president attempt end around Congress . ”
The China rivalry
“ I ’ always thought Americans would come together realized faced dangerous foreign foe , ” colleague David Brooks writes . “ And lo behold , one : China . It ’ become increasingly clear China grave economic , technological intellectual threat United States world order . ”
I agree United States complacent geopolitical challenge China poses .
If subscriber newsletter , subscribe . You also join Twitter ( @ DLeonhardt ) Facebook .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram .
David Leonhardt former Washington bureau chief Times , founding editor The Upshot head The 2020 Project , future Times newsroom . He 2011 Pulitzer Prize commentary , columns financial crisis . @ DLeonhardt • Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Why American conservatism Trump may learn like state .
By Ross Douthat
Opinion Columnist
Since conservatism became movement 1950s , American right understood defending written American Constitution unwritten one well — kind cultural social constitution , deeply rooted national history , checks balances official political system help sustain .
Under constitution America three branches government great diversity power centers — religious corporate , familial philanthropic . Under constitution important institutions national life ’ political ones ; ’ institutions civil society , flourished — conservative argument goes — precisely government kept within limits , state ’ co-opted crushed rivals influence power .
Thus conservatives preach virtues “ limited government , ” ’ Herbert Hoover ’ rugged individual imagine defending . They envision larger communitarian panoply — civic associations , religious denominations , charities universities private schools — needs protection jealousy centralizing state . And tend assume keeping American corporation embedded communitarian system better way balance productivity innovation public-spiritedness trying regulate micromanage businesses good behavior .
If wanted summarize intellectual uncertainties conservatives Trump era , could say right trying figure whether unwritten American constitution imagines defending still exists . And ’ , ’ failing , whether means “ limited government ” slogan strategy increasingly irrelevant comes shaping society conservatives would like America .
The latter argument Donald Trump implicitly pressed optimistic opponents 2016 primaries . They defenders American dream conservatives long defined , dark , conspiratorial tones businessman rival raised set uncomfortable questions . Is America still nation thriving local communities energetic civic life ? Is America still deeply religious country , strong churches growing denominations ? Are American businessmen basically public spirited , eager compete equal terms government removes heavy hand , natural allies political movement wedded patriotism religion ?
For years conservative critics sociologists intellectuals acknowledging answers might — country ’ once-rich associational civic religious life declining dissolving , corporate America embraces conservative slogans keep taxes low unions weak otherwise seems post-patriotic performatively woke , “ silent majority ” hardworking , pious , culturally conservative blue-collar families essentially defunct .
Many best conservative books last decade , “ Coming Apart ” Charles Murray “ The Fractured Republic ” Yuval Levin , describe emerging America ’ much resemble Tocquevillian family-church-community landscape familiar past conservative descriptions American exceptionalism . The latest example “ Alienated America : Why Some Places Thrive While Others Collapse ” Tim Carney , mix sociology shoe-leather reporting convincingly situates rise Trump context Middle America ’ communitarian collapse .
But accounts like Carney ’ acknowledge role economic forces — globalization , trade , deindustrialization — dissolution family community , also tend insist , contra liberals new socialist vanguard ( also contra Trump ) , cultural collapse ’ primarily driven economic policy decisions ’ reversed public policies programs . Instead tend suggest state interventions often replace community instead strengthening cast communitarian revival necessarily local project , government play best supporting , ’ t-make-matters-worse kind role .
These kind arguments still continuity , , basic conservative posture last generations . But also increasingly partisans rupture right , loose group state-power conservatives hint Tocquevillian dream dying cause “ limited government ” increasingly irrelevant — turn would require conservatives become comfortable using power state , engaged centralized policymaking specific social cultural ends mind .
This argument visible controversy surrounding Tucker Carlson ’ monologue month ago , stirred libertarian backlash calling Republicans use government policy make American life friendlier families , particularly single-earner households . It also informs difference Carney ’ book smart right-of-center volume moment , Oren Cass ’ “ The Once Future Worker. ” The two authors share certain common ground , end Carney concludes “ current economic social ills … solved even significantly ameliorated president , central government , ” Cass ’ whole thesis wiser policymaking could make big difference unhappy heartlanders Carney profiles .
But fullest case rupture , declaring “ era limited government , ” offered two recent essays conservative intellectual journals — Dan McCarthy ’ “ A New Conservative Agenda ” First Things , Gladden Pappin ’ “ Toward Party State ” American Affairs . Both envision conservatism oriented less toward state-as-enemy state-as-danger much toward state-as-shaper state-as-harmonizer . For instance , McCarthy ’ account economic nationalism Donald Trump transmuted something less inchoate effective :
Economic nationalism tariffs . It less “ economic ” “ nationalism ” — , takes account different needs different walks life regions country , serving whole serving parts drawing ­together . In past , challenge harmonize farmers , urban capital labor . The challenge balance groups postindustrial classes well , strengthen productive economy largely fictional economy administrators clerks . All sake prosperity , raw dollar terms , national economy provides basis healthy culture citizens families flourish .
Pappin makes similar argument political coalitions , especially right , adapt current challenge “ illiberal ” “ post-liberal ” forces , populist socialist :
Rather asking question “ What conservatives/progressives ? ” considerable advances made certain purely practical considerations : “ How integrity national political community assured ? ” “ How commercial activity technological development continue turned toward common good , toward strategic advantage ? ” “ What reins power , , state , ensure common good citizens ? ”
The likely answers “ practical ” questions , Pappin contends , require conservatives make practical “ use administrative state ” right-wing ends , rather constantly returning “ plaintive , nostalgic counterproductive calls abolition . ”
A hostile reader essays , libertarian liberal , might respond vision right-wing governments seek reshape culture mediate classes resembles nothing much early-20th century fascism . A sympathetic reader would say , plenty space state-friendly conservative politics movement conservatism Mussolini , McCarthy Pappin envisioning might better described blend American Hamiltonian tradition 21st-century update French Gaullism .
And subtle reader might say ’ trying provide theory move Republican Party power tends make anyway — last two G.O.P . presidents , sense , “ big government conservatives ” — far without strategy , seriousness self-consciousness required make project success .
I enough skepticism efficacy state power uncertain project succeed . But post-Trump conservatives likely drawn state-power conservatism theoretical ambition sense political necessity .
The earlier conservative self-understanding , right defending nongovernmental institutions power state , tacitly depended assumption many nongovernmental institutions would friendly conservative values . But civil society decayed recent decades , remaining power centers also become increasingly left-wing .
Already-liberal institutions — universities , Hollywood , big foundations mass media — uniformly allied left even recent past . Corporate America happily donates Republicans fears Bernie Sanders presidency , cultural issues big business courts younger customers progressive lobbying propaganda . In religion , Catholicism Pope Francis aspires ( scandals permitting ) ease way leftward well , leaving evangelical Christianity isolated bastion little culture-shaping power .
Yet conservatives still win White House Congress , means one power center hope control one notionally organized limit — administrative state .
If assume people tend seek power , devise justifications seeking power , plausibly exercised , state-power conservatives may need strongest intellectual arguments change way right thinks state . Instead limited government conservatism may give way attempt improve Trumpism clearer blueprints smarter cadres reason changes often happen political ideology — people whose thinking changing feel ’ choice .
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTOpinion ) Instagram , join Facebook political discussion group , Voting While Female .
Ross Douthat Opinion columnist The Times since 2009 . He author several books , recently , “ To Change Church : Pope Francis Future Catholicism. ” You follow Twitter : @ DouthatNYT
You follow Twitter : @ DouthatNYT
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Eurotunnel sued Department Transport handling contracts provide extra freight capacity .
By Amie Tsang
LONDON — Add list headaches faced Britain ’ government frantically tries prepare Brexit : 33 million pound ( $ 44 million ) payment settle lawsuit brought Eurotunnel , company operates rail link France Britain .
Eurotunnel sued Britain ’ Department Transport handling contracts provide extra transportation capacity event country leaves European Union without deal place .
The company accused British government limiting competition open bidding contracts , worth millions dollars , according court filings .
In December , Britain ’ government signed contracts DFDS , Danish shipping company , Brittany Ferries , French company , supply extra freight capacity bring essential goods medicines country event no-deal Brexit .
The government also signed contract Seaborne Freight , ferry company later found BBC run ferry service . The deal came heavy criticism , one lawmaker calling “ shell company. ” The firm also ridiculed echoing website terms conditions business specializing takeout meals . Seaborne Freight pulled contract .
The government settled case Eurotunnel avoid prolonged legal tussle tries make arrangements March 29 , country scheduled exit European Union .
Government departments Britain ’ businesses furiously preparing case country leaves European Union without agreement setting terms separation . There fears lack clarity port arrangements could lead gridlock roads problems getting food medicine people Britain .
“ We taking steps ensure supply chains continue function , whatever circumstances departure , mitigation place avoid disruption borders , ” Stephen Barclay , Brexit secretary , said statement Friday .
Chris Grayling , transport secretary , added , “ While disappointing Eurotunnel chose take legal action contracts place ensure smooth supply vital medicines , I pleased agreement ensure Channel Tunnel ready post-Brexit world . ”
Eurotunnel agreed withdraw case take unspecified actions improve security traffic flow .
“ Eurotunnel concluded out-of-court agreement secretary state transport ensure Channel Tunnel remains preferred route vital goods travel E.U . U.K. , ” company said .
​Amie Tsang general assignment business reporter based London , covered variety topics , including gender pay gap , aviation London Fatberg . @ amietsang
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday . Want email ? Sign .
Bipartisan negotiations forge border security deal broke yesterday , potentially setting federal government another shutdown ahead Friday deadline .
What happened ? “ The impasse appears center Democratic demands limit number unauthorized immigrants already country could detained Immigration Customs Enforcement officers , according aides familiar talks , ” according NYT . Republicans wanted exception cap criminals ; Democrats said proposed 16,500-bed cap left enough room .
What ’ stake ? The last shutdown , longest U.S. history , cost American economy $ 11 billion tanked President Trump ’ political standing public . Another shutdown could cause economic harm , hitting I.R.S . tax season starts .
What ’ next ? Lawmakers could pass another short-term spending bill , though many reluctant punt final budget agreement . Meanwhile , Mr. Trump preparing hold rally supporters El Paso . ( Many city ’ happy . ) But really two choices , according Axios : shut government declare national emergency get border wall money , “ options horrible . ”
The Amazon founder risked embarrassment going public said extortion attempt The National Enquirer . So far , ’ scoring big points ( “ Saturday Night Live ” jokes aside ) .
His disclosure gotten results . Federal prosecutors reviewing extortion claim , NYT reports , citing unnamed sources . If The Enquirer ’ parent company broke law , would violation nonprosecution agreement paying hush money help President Trump 2016 . ( A lawyer publisher ’ chairman said yesterday company committed crime . )
And ’ winning P.R . battle . At time billionaires reviled , Maureen Dowd NYT writes , “ richest dude earth managed come traumatic week inspiring admiration. ” ( Glenn Greenwald The Intercept counters would odd Mr. Bezos gain pity , given Amazon “ critical partner U.S. government building ever-more invasive , militarized sprawling surveillance state . ” )
Where The Enquirer go wrong ? Danny Westneat The Seattle Times points picked fight head company powerful got Seattle change tax policies $ 3 billion tax incentives New York office space . “ You ’ pressure Amazon . It goes way around , ” Mr. Westneat writes .
But Mr. Bezos could still lose . Jon Swartz Barron ’ notes Amazon shares fell 2.6 percent Friday . “ His hands-on management considered crucial success company anything pulls attention away day-to-day management least concern investors , ” Mr. Swartz writes .
Fears Britain ’ withdrawal E.U . could roil economies officially spread across Atlantic .
Wall Street warned Brexit ’ impact . “ With less seven weeks go U.K. due leave E.U. , several S & P 500 groups first time put Wall Street formal notice risks London Brussels fail reach divorce deal , ” FT reports . Companies like Lockheed Martin , McCormick , Expedia Cadbury spoken .
Driving concern fears depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable Britain , costs imported British goods could rise . There ’ also fear broader effect Brexit global political economic stability .
American banks also nervous . “ While U.S. banks want Britain maintain closest possible ties EU Brexit , U.K. banks insurers anxious ’ become beholden new laws made Brussels , ” Bloomberg reports .
More Brexit news : The E.U. ’ chief Brexit negotiator , Michel Barnier , said “ reopen ” existing Brexit deal , open reworking political declaration accompanies . The British government trying secure extra two weeks win concessions Europe promising lawmakers another vote Britain ’ withdrawal options . And Prime Minister Theresa May also offered concessions opposing Labour Party break current impasse Parliament .
Americans getting rude surprise : Their refunds appear getting smaller , despite President Trump Republicans passing huge set tax cuts year ago .
How big drop ? “ The average refund $ 1,865 8.4 percent smaller average refund period last year , ” Reuters reports , citing figures I.R.S . Heather Long WaPo adds number people receiving refund fallen nearly 25 percent far . ( The I.R.S . warns read much figures , part data — result delayed processing due government shutdown . )
Why happening ? It ’ actually sign Americans paying taxes . “ People generally got piece tax cut last year gradually form lower withholding paychecks , ” Joseph Rosenberg Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center told WaPo .
People angry nonetheless . The WaPo reports : “ People already taken social media , using hashtag # GOPTaxScam , vent anger . Many blame President Trump Republicans shrinking refunds . Some Twitter even said ’ vote Trump seeing refunds slashed . ”
The last class tech companies gained valuations $ 1 billion , including Uber Airbnb , remade entire industries . Don ’ expect next wave nearly flashy , according Erin Griffith NYT .
Who ? They names like Benchling , Checkr Zola , many create software specific industries — including data analysis systems farmers background checks gig workers .
Why ’ exciting predecessors ? Ms. Griffith points Uber , Airbnb peers “ built global empires simply taking existing businesses — like taxis , food delivery hotels — making mobile. ” Easy opportunities disrupt traditional businesses dried , forcing new companies find smaller niches .
But ’ underestimate potential . “ Maybe ’ sexy companies first wave , ” venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded NYT . But Anand Sanwal data provider CB Insights said still growing fast , adding , “ If one high-momentum companies , investors going beating door much interest investing next big winner . ”
Christine Lagarde , managing director International Monetary Fund , warned yesterday global economy “ growing slowly anticipated . ”
She sees four big risks . “ Trade tensions tariff escalations , financial tightening , uncertainty related Brexit outcome spillover impact accelerated slowdown Chinese economy ” “ clouds ” horizon , told World Government Summit Dubai .
And could spell trouble . “ When many clouds , ” added , takes one lighting bolt “ start storm . ”
But I.M.F . thinks Fed playing smart . “ The fact Fed put pause raising rates going provide lot support economy , ” Gita Gopinath , I.M.F. ’ top economist , told FT. “ We endorse Fed view data-driven approach . ”
President Trump expected sign executive order today meant spur development regulation artificial intelligence , Cade Metz NYT writes .
The news : Mr. Trump introduce “ American A.I . Initiative , ” aims better educate workers field , improve access cloud computing services data needed build A.I . systems , promote cooperation foreign powers .
Context : “ A.I . experts across industry , academia government long called Trump administration make development artificial intelligence major priority , ” Mr. Metz writes , adding “ concerned China could surpass United States ” development technologies .
But : “ The order set aside funds A.I . research development , ” Mr. Metz adds , “ administration provided details put new policies effect . ”
Steve Mandel stepped head hedge fund Lone Pine Capital .
Among reasons Santander rescinded offer hire investment banker Andrea Orcel ? Reportedly desire attend World Economic Forum Davos , Switzerland .
Kristina Salen , former chief financial officer shopping site Etsy , joined Moda Operandi , luxury fashion start-up , C.F.O .
The English Premier League looking America successor C.E.O. , Richard Scudamore . British candidates appear uninterested job .
Deals
• The aluminum-parts maker Arconic plans break . ( WSJ )
• Apollo Global Management reportedly near deal buy Cox Enterprises ’ 14 regional TV stations $ 3 billion . ( Reuters )
• The medical equipment maker Smith & Nephew reportedly held talks buy NuVasive , maker medical instruments spinal surgeries , $ 3 billion . ( FT )
• TPG Capital closed seventh Asia-focused private equity fund $ 4.6 billion . ( Reuters )
Politics policy
• Democratic lawmakers proposing steep new taxes superrich — public loves . ( NYT )
• Senator Michael Bennet , Democrat Colorado potential presidential candidate , says cutting private health insurance part Medicare “ bad opening offer. ” ( Politico )
• President Trump succeeded dividing Democrats warning socialism . ( Hill )
• The biggest star Clive Davis ’ exclusive pre-Grammys gala ? Speaker Nancy Pelosi . ( AP )
Trade
• Trade talks U.S. China resume today Beijing . ( Straits Times )
• White House officials reportedly discussed summit meeting President Trump President Xi Jinping China Mar-a-Lago next month resolve trade fight . ( Axios )
• The trade agreement replace Nafta faces uphill climb Congress . ( Axios )
Tech
• Some Amazon executives reportedly reconsidering decision set campus New York , opponents think might bluff . ( WSJ , Recode )
• Huawei threatened sue Czech Republic country ’ cybersecurity agency rescind warning risk company poses nation ’ critical infrastructure . ( NYT )
• Sprint accused AT & T false advertising , saying rival incorrectly telling customers receiving 5G data service . ( WSJ )
• Tesla may finally delivering Model 3s , ’ keep servicing . ( WSJ )
Best rest
• A new activist hedge fund , Impactive Capital , rarity : It ’ female- minority-led . ( WSJ )
• Household staples , diapers baking soda , may get expensive . ( WSJ )
• U.S. colleges raised $ 46.7 billion year ended last June , led Harvard $ 1.4 billion . ( Bloomberg )
• Here ’ rundown 100 sustainable U.S. companies , according Barron ’ . ( Barron ’ )
• How Fed ’ recent U-turn rates cascaded global markets . ( NYT )
Thanks reading ! We ’ see tomorrow .
We ’ love feedback . Please email thoughts suggestions business @ nytimes.com .
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ivan Nechepurenko
MOSCOW — Russian lawmakers , moving restrict freedom speech , passed bills Thursday would introduce jail terms fines insulting government online spreading so-called fake news .
The bills seen effort pre-empt control public criticism Russia ’ prolonged economic stagnation pushes Kremlin ’ approval ratings . They reflect nearly two-decade-long project President Vladimir V. Putin put information flow state control , push made difficult growth internet .
The new measures await final passage upper chamber parliament Mr. Putin ’ signature . He expressed support restrictions insulting state online .
One set bills passed lower house , Duma , would subject private individuals fines $ 3,000 15 days administrative arrest insulting government online . Individuals would face fines $ 6,000 posting termed fake news .
Another bill would demand news media outlets websites remove information shows “ clear disrespect ” society , state symbols , Russian Constitution government . Internet service providers website owners would one day remove insults , face complete block .
Lawmakers also passed bill would force websites immediately remove “ false , publicly important information ” government watchdog deems threat public order .
The measures stipulate clearly would considered fake news . The authors said interviews would determined state prosecutors government communications watchdog .
Critics said measures loosely defined allow government block information online finds undesirable .
With bills ’ wording “ vague possible , ” Vladimir A. Ryzhkov , opposition politician , said Facebook , “ create possibilities widest possible arbitrariness law enforcement . As result , society ’ trust government fall public atmosphere poisoned . ”
As Russians switch television — largely controlled state Kremlin allies — internet main source information , government made keeping web control top priority .
In February , lawmakers proposed creating infrastructure separate Russia global internet altogether . Last year , state banned Telegram , popular messaging app .
The Russian government opened assault so-called fake news even United States accused Moscow engaging practice , disinformation campaign intended sway 2016 American presidential election .
The new bills passed Russians ’ trust government agencies Mr. Putin particular steadily declining . For first time since annexation Crimea 2014 , number Russians say country heading wrong direction surpassed say opposite . The finding came poll conducted January independent pollster Levada .
The share people approve Mr. Putin ’ work president declined 20 percentage points since reached post-Crimea peak 86 percent 2015 .
Nikolai F. Uskov , editor Forbes Russia magazine frequent commentator , said bills government ’ “ weapon media . ”
“ The government clearly getting ready protest moods grow reflected publications social networks media , ” said , speaking Ekho Moskvy , radio station . “ I ’ think save state , ” added , “ wave anger sweep away restrictions . ”
Follow Ivan Nechepurenko Twitter : @ INechepurenko .


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By David Zucchino Fahim Abed
KABUL , Afghanistan — Afghanistan ’ coalition government fired Tuesday commissioners directed fraud-tainted parliamentary elections last fall , country prepares presidential race summer watches , leaders sidelines , peace talks unfold Americans Taliban .
The move follows push opposition politicians postpone election form interim government , part peace deal , could include Taliban . President Ashraf Ghani , fumed government ’ exclusion American-Taliban talks , insisted election held time .
The firings , came series meetings government , civil society groups political parties , portrayed badly needed consensus electoral reform . The commissioners called dismissal political decision officials hope serve new government .
The election already pushed back April July . The panel behind decision , Independent Election Commission , one two whose members removed Tuesday .
Replacement commissioners named Mr. Ghani coalition partner , Abdullah Abdullah , charged preparing presidential election feature men candidates .
Mr. Ghani said central government strong mandate negotiate behalf country . The Taliban , dealing directly Americans , refused include Afghan government consider illegitimate .
Zalmay Khalilizad , leader American delegation , said last week hoped secure peace deal July election . He said last month United States Taliban agreed principle framework peace deal .
The Afghan election commission widely accused sowing confusion disarray October parliamentary elections , three years late tainted accusations vote-rigging , bribery incompetence . Winners certified third 250 seats Parliament .
The attorney general ’ office prosecuted 313 people accused violations including forging selling election stickers national ID cards needed cast vote .
In statement late Tuesday , office said 12 commissioners two election bodies barred leaving country , investigators appointed look charges abuse authority .
The firings set legal confrontation , dismissed members saying move violated election law .
“ The amendment election law presidential decree president also candidate Constitution , ” commissioners said joint statement . “ This political decision , legal constitutional one . ”
Mr. Ghani ’ deputy spokesman , Shahhusain Murtazawi , said election results remain place . He said protests could lodged second affected commission , called Independent Election Complaint Commission , judicial groups . The head commission ’ secretariat remains place acting director .
Given officials administered election fired , roughly 2,000 losing candidates expected protest . If results re-examined canceled , would affect preparations presidential election already behind schedule — assurance required funding place .
One losing parliamentary candidate , Fawad Aman , said anyone seated Parliament would remain cloud suspicion . And commissioners punished , said , Afghans could lose faith electoral process refrain voting .
“ If dismissed prosecuted , means political game president influence election commissions presidential election , ” Mr. Aman said .
Nayim Ayubzada , head Transparent Election Foundation Afghanistan , independent election monitoring group , said firings made hastily government paid little attention legal process addressing fraud accusations .
“ We worry decision president candidate may things turn things favor , ” Mr. Ayubzada said . “ If decides hastily election issues , raise questions transparency elections . ”
Mr. Ghani Mr. Abdullah appoint new heads members commissions , selected candidates put forward civil society groups political parties within next week .
Supporters firings said necessary make commissioners accountable bungling expensive election process secured Afghan forces amid raging war . Each Afghan election , bankrolled international donations , proved least problematic last .
The 2014 presidential election fraudulent , two leading candidates claimed victory , nearly tore country apart prompted Western officials step mediators . John Kerry , secretary state , negotiated power-sharing government top two candidates , Mr. Ghani Mr. Abdullah , promise would prioritize election reforms avoid another fiasco .
The two men slow make progress reforms , given infighting government war Taliban . Now Mr. Ghani Mr. Abdullah get name new commissioners oversee election peak summer fighting season peace process plays .
Those challenges left many Afghans skeptical new commissioners . Mr. Ayubzada , election observer , said doubted presidential election would even held year , process “ overshadowed ongoing peace talks political dealing . ”
Mujib Mashal contributed reporting Kandahar , Afghanistan .




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Tuesday . Want email ? Sign .
Democratic Republican negotiators said last night “ agreement principle ” border security funding could keep federal government open .
The deal includes $ 1.38 billion pay 55 miles new fencing , technology staffing border protection . It ’ $ 5.7 billion President Trump demanded build 200-mile wall . Democrats waived demand limits detention capacity immigrants .
But ’ guarantee go . The House Senate would vote pact , Mr. Trump would sign . “ I think everyone say , ‘ Good work , ’ ” Representative Kay Granger Texas , one Republican negotiators , said . Still , rally Texas last night , Mr. Trump insisted build wall . And influential Republican commentators like Fox News host Sean Hannity called deal “ garbage compromise . ”
The remaining alternatives hugely unattractive . Politico notes potential White House plan redirect unspent federal funds toward wall would “ create firestorm. ” And another government shutdown could hit U.S. economy endanger aviation safety .
The British prime minister scheduled update lawmakers later today progress negotiations withdrawing E.U .
She big favor ask . Mrs. May focused making changes so-called backstop exit deal , designed prevent hard border Ireland Northern Ireland . She made little headway . Bloomberg explains plan today :
• Mrs. May “ update Parliament progress talks E.U . outline motion ’ put M.P.s debate Thursday , office said . ”
• She “ expected ask Parliament restate demand remove backstop Withdrawal Agreement promise vote ’ brought renegotiated deal back Parliament Feb. 27 . ”
• The aim “ reassure members across House Commons concerned May deliberately running clock risking potentially disastrous no-deal divorce . ”
But E.U . still ’ budging . Its chief Brexit negotiator , Michel Barnier , said yesterday “ something give British side . ”
Yet Mrs. May could force plan Parliament . Bloomberg explains , though also admits “ lot could go wrong . ”
More Brexit news : Britain weakest economic growth six years last year . It signed trade deal Switzerland , biggest since 2016 Brexit referendum . And government sued awarding contract freight shipments no-deal Brexit ferry company boats .
The former Fed chairman recently sat Ray Dalio Bridgewater Capital wide-ranging conversation , topics state U.S. principles good government . Don ’ time watch ? Here highlights :
On Washington : Mr. Volcker lamented condition U.S. government , repeating past criticisms . “ You ’ got presidents ’ seem mind either personal behavior making outrageous statements , true , ” told Mr. Dalio . “ You Congress ’ unable function effectively . ”
On Civil Service : For former Fed chairman , important problem solve make government work appear honorable . “ Public administration ’ bad word , ” told Mr. Dalio , leaving important government departments without effective leaders .
What Mr. Volcker : He set Volcker Alliance , meant help schools train future government officials . “ It ’ great trick , ” Mr. Volcker said . “ How get expertise leadership need still respect popular desire ? ”
Optimism personal finances ’ high 16 years , according study Gallup .
Sixty-nine percent Americans expect better time next year . That “ two percentage points all-time high 71 percent , recorded March 1998 , ” according Gallup . That ’ survey carried Jan. 2 Jan. 10 , middle government shutdown .
Half respondents say ’ better year ago . That figure consistently half since 2007 , Gallup says .
The optimism hard overstate . “ Only 11 times 109 polls stretching back 1976 least half polled said better financial shape year prior , ” Gallup notes . “ Only 114 polls going back 1977 Americans optimistic personal finances coming year today . ”
“ Europe sleepwalking oblivion , people Europe need wake late , ” George Soros writes opinion piece Project Syndicate :
• “ Neither leaders ordinary citizens seem understand experiencing revolutionary moment , range possibilities broad , eventual outcome thus highly uncertain . ”
• “ The next inflection point elections European Parliament May 2019 . Unfortunately , anti-European forces enjoy competitive advantage balloting . ”
• “ The first step defending Europe enemies , internal external , recognize magnitude threat present . The second awaken sleeping pro-European majority mobilize defend values E.U . founded . ”
The firm said yesterday would buy Solium Capital , manages stock paid corporate employees , $ 900 million . It ’ biggest deal major Wall Street firm since financial crisis — ’ rationale ?
The bank wants millennial wealth . Solium ’ clients include start-ups , like Instacart Stripe , could go public multibillion-dollar valuations — making employees rich .
Wall Street approves strategy . Analysts Evercore ISI wrote yesterday Solium gives Morgan Stanley “ real path towards organic growth next generation clients many investors questioning. ” Matthew Klein Barron ’ wrote last week millennials could hold key improving American productivity — wealth .
And banks seem newly hungry deals . Days Morgan Stanley ’ acquisition , BB & T agreed buy SunTrust biggest bank merger since 2008 crisis . Banking chiefs seem heartened loosened regulations sector — eager capitalize acquisitions . “ We ’ like , ” James Gorman , Morgan Stanley ’ C.E.O. , told WSJ . ( And JPMorgan Chase reportedly considered buying asset manager WisdomTree , according Bloomberg . )
It ’ eight months Mario Draghi ’ finishes nonrenewable term president European Central Bank . Choosing successor important difficult , WSJ reports :
• Investors trusted Mr. Draghi , WSJ says , navigate “ toxic mix risks Europe , Brexit trade wars . ”
• “ At least five unofficial candidates appear running replace , according European officials : two Frenchmen , two Finns German . The candidates different economic philosophies , clear front-runner . ”
• The winner might chosen balance nationalities E.U. ’ leadership , rather purely merit . The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo , chief executive Centre European Policy Studies , Brussels think tank , risks . “ It ’ systemically important job Europe , man controls show , ” said . “ It go badly wrong . ”
WSJ reporters scoured fourth-quarter results U.S. companies attempt better understand slowing China ’ economic growth .
What found : Many companies “ struggling weaker demand export manufacturers China , pulling back amid fears trade tensions worsen , ” Austen Hufford Theo Francis WSJ report . “ Retailers companies catering Chinese consumers face signs weakness among country ’ growing middle class . They buying fewer cars , phones traveling less . ”
The conclusion : “ The indications slowing growth broad , still modest , ” Mr. Hufford Mr. Francis write .
Just half PG & E ’ directors stand re-election year utility filed bankruptcy amid California wildfires .
Colgate-Palmolive named Noel Wallace , C.O.O. , chief executive , replacing Ian Cook .
GV , venture capital arm Alphabet , hired David Schenkein , former C.E.O . Agios Pharmaceuticals , co-head life sciences .
Apple named Frank Casanova , longtime iPhone executive , first head marketing augmented reality .
Sony appointed Jim Ryan C.E.O . PlayStation business .
Deals
• Colony Capital , investment firm founded real estate mogul Tom Barrack , explore selling assets activist hedge fund , Blackwells Capital , took stake . ( Colony )
• SoftBank ’ Vision Fund led $ 940 million investment Nuro , driverless delivery start-up . ( FT )
• Amazon agreed buy Eero , makes wireless routers , advance smart-home ambitions . ( Reuters )
• Peloton , makes video-streaming stationary bikes treadmills , reportedly interviewing banks prepare I.P.O . ( WSJ )
• DoorDash , delivery start-up , reportedly process raising $ 500 million $ 6 billion valuation . ( WSJ )
• Reddit raised $ 150 million Tencent — users fear censorship . ( Verge )
Politics policy
• President Trump Gov . Andrew Cuomo New York meet today discuss revising cap deductions state local taxes . ( Bloomberg )
• Democratic presidential contenders see small donors , rather traditional wealthy backers , test viability 2020 race . ( WaPo )
• Contrary popular belief , Mr. Trump ’ presidency hurt America ’ gun lobby . ( NYT editorial )
Trade
• President Trump reportedly eager meet President Xi Jinping China discuss trade deal . ( Bloomberg )
• American tariffs Chinese goods reduced two countries ’ trade imbalance — without helping U.S. companies . ( Axios )
• Chinese investments Israeli tech companies raising security concerns . ( WSJ )
Tech
• What ’ like contractor one Apple ’ less glamorous offices ? Not much fun . ( Bloomberg )
• Mars One Ventures , promised one-way trips red planet , bankrupt . ( Verge )
• If New York ’ want new Amazon campus , Newark . ( Bloomberg )
• Alphabet Microsoft discreetly warning A.I . could harm brands . ( Wired )
The Jeff Bezos saga
• The American Media Inc. lawyer reportedly sought deal Mr. Bezos ’ private photos Amazon Kindle executive . ( WSJ )
• American Media reportedly asked Justice Department whether needed register foreign agent ties Saudi Arabia . ( WSJ )
• The WaPo found tricky situation : reporting owner ’ fight The National Enquirer , cause battle . ( NYT )
Best rest
• Could leveraged loans sink U.S. economy ? ( FT )
• For two years , Goldman Sachs bet companies strong balance sheets . Not anymore . ( CNBC )
• The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says ’ “ mania ” share buybacks , ’ worried social consequences . ( CNBC )
• Toys ‘ R ’ Us planning comeback later year . ( NYT )
• Is corporate America headed toward earnings recession ? ( DealBook )
Thanks reading ! We ’ see tomorrow .
We ’ love feedback . Please email thoughts suggestions business @ nytimes.com .
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
China ’ opening-up policies led improvements life business .

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role post ’ creation .
Advertisement
Supported
New Zealand ’ prime minister moved swiftly ban weapons mass killing gunman attacked two mosques .
By The Editorial Board
The editorial board represents opinions board , editor publisher . It separate newsroom Op-Ed section .
The murder 50 Muslim worshipers New Zealand , allegedly 28-year-old Australian white supremacist , long scrutinized way violent hatreds spawned staged social media internet . But world learn way Jacinda Ardern , New Zealand ’ prime minister , responded horror .
Almost immediately last Friday ’ killings , Ms. Ardern listened constituents ’ outrage declared within days government would introduce new controls military-style weapons Christchurch shooter many mass killers United States used rampages . And delivered .
On Thursday , Ms. Ardern announced ban military-style semiautomatic automatic weapons , parts used turn rifles weapons high-capacity ammunition magazines . “ It ’ us , ” said , “ ’ national interest ’ safety . ”
Earlier week , told Parliament social media sites must address ease internet used spew hate images violence . “ We simply sit back accept platforms exist said responsibility place published , ” said . “ It case profit , responsibility . ”
Ms. Ardern ’ propose immediate measures limit reach Facebook , Twitter internet publishers , ’ obvious could done without trampling freedom speech . But made clear believed social media platforms , like gun manufacturers dealers , bore responsibility carnage visited Christchurch many communities recent years .
The new gun proposal require considerable fine-tuning defining becomes law . New Zealand ’ existing laws relatively lenient , large percentage estimated 1.2 million 1.5 million firearms owned 250,000 people registered . It known many become illegal new laws .
But display one deranged man weapons designed combat seemed persuade majority New Zealanders , strong majority Parliament , need ban rapid-firing weapons .
That attitude stood stark contrast way National Rifle Association political allies United States resisted restrictions weapons like AR-15 , semiautomatic rifle used several mass killings .
In New Zealand , took one mass shooting awaken government . In United States , even string mass killings — 26 dead school Newtown , Conn. ; 49 nightclub Orlando ; 58 concert Las Vegas ; 17 school Parkland , Fla. — enough . Nor fact 73 percent Americans say needs done curb gun violence , according recent polling .
The ban terrorists ’ weapon choice one areas Ms. Ardern showed leadership looks like time crisis . In lieu trite messages , donned black head scarf led group politicians visit victims ’ families ; speaking without script school victims attended , urged pupils “ let New Zealand place tolerance racism . Ever. ” She told grieving families , “ We know grief , walk every stage . ”
And striking gesture , refused utter name suspected killer . “ He may sought notoriety , New Zealand give nothing , ” said . “ Not even name . ”
After atrocity , world ’ leaders unite clearly condemning racism , sharing grief victims stripping haters weapons . Ms. Ardern shown way .
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram .
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Get 3D view China ’ government plans 2019 .

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role post ’ creation .
Advertisement
Supported
The journalist Maria Ressa facing criminal charges social media threats .
By Kara Swisher
Ms. Swisher covers technology contributing opinion writer .
Harassing journalists one Rodrigo Duterte ’ specialties . Mr. Duterte , strongman president Philippines , going Maria Ressa , former CNN reporter founder online news site Rappler , two years . The campaign combines criminal charges Facebook smears intended tarnish reputation spread lies work .
Last week , Ms. Ressa spent night jail charge “ cyberlibel ” 2012 article Rappler published allegations corrupt ties businessman judge .
When spoke Skype Thursday attempts silence , said , “ I adjust normal , even nothing normal this. ” She added , “ It scare , meant scare everyone else . ”
Technically , spent night conference room , rather cell — National Bureau Investigation agents trying “ nice , ” told .
It perhaps small gracious act relentless assault Ms. Ressa Rappler .
[ Kara Swisher answered questions Twitter . ]
Rappler President Duterte ’ brutal regime , publishing articles extrajudicial killings human rights abuses . In mid-2017 , State Union speech , president struck back criticizing Rappler owned Americans ( investors indeed United States ) . He attempted get license revoked . Ms. Ressa charged tax evasion . Then arrest cyberlibel , considered criminal act .
While seemed tired legal roadblocks , undaunted even funny spoke . “ I think I paid bail Imelda Marcos , ” said , referring shoe-loving wife longtime ruler Philippines went ignominy .
It morning Manila , journalism . Instead , adding security Rappler ’ offices protect 100 employees forking money pay lawyers . Legal fees already account quarter operating budget , said .
She also contending relentless manipulation social media says government-friendly sources spread false information Rappler . These trolls focus Facebook , Filipinos get news . She called foreign agent , troublemaker , tax cheat , traitor ugly .
Last week , two people Ms. Ressa suspects working government managed slip Rappler ’ building broadcast video Facebook Live outside door urging protests social media attacks . Among comments feed : “ Hang Ressa , ” “ Bomb Ressa ” “ Behead . ”
Government officials said “ enjoying ” attention . She , Ms. Ressa reported video Facebook . She already provided company copious evidence way platform abused Mr. Duterte ’ troll army . This time Facebook responded blocking user posted video 30 days ( may popped Facebook Singapore , though ) .
It ’ cat-and-mouse game , Ms. Ressa said Facebook haphazard enforcing rules . While individual executives helpful , Ms. Ressa said , ’ hard time dealing Facebook , responded slowly .
“ Facebook world ’ largest distributor news yet refused gatekeeper , ” told recent onstage interview . “ And , allow lies actually get playing field facts , taints entire public sphere. ” At point , said , Facebook “ take lies . ”
As noted Thursday night , “ A lie told million times truth. ” On social media , though , like billion times .
Ms. Ressa said wished tried stop online abuse sooner : “ We ignored far long lesson I learned . ”
She said would continue try work Facebook social media outlets . “ Looking social media feed impossible , since I ’ defend I watch reputation dragged , ” said . Lately , Ms. Ressa said , attacks Twitter worsened . And I weirdly pummeled platform users calling Ms. Ressa con artist since I posted I speaking .
To try deal , Ms. Ressa said , thinks lot Reinhold Niebuhr ’ Serenity Prayer . “ I look stuff area control , like making sure staff safe business able continue , ” said , weary sigh . “ I ’ want story . ”
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram , sign Opinion Today newsletter .
Kara Swisher , editor large technology news website Recode producer Recode Decode podcast Code Conference , contributing opinion writer . @ karaswisher • Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Charlotte Graham-McLay
WELLINGTON , New Zealand — In New Zealand , members public accustomed seeing top government officials grocery store street , unencumbered security guards common parts world .
The country ’ prime minister , Jacinda Ardern , even jokingly recounted Stephen Colbert “ The Late Show ” approached chatty strangers shopped maternity bras .
But Thursday morning , government minister attacked walking work alone capital city , leading Ms. Ardern warn New Zealanders ’ unusual level access country ’ lawmakers taken granted .
“ We environment New Zealand politicians accessible , ’ something feel proud , ” Ms Ardern said . “ We , , serve people . But today ’ events really show take granted . ”
The victim , James Shaw , 45 , co-leader left-leaning Green Party minister climate change , told police grabbed hit Thursday morning attack , leaving black eye cuts face . After treated scene , went attend meeting Parliament admitting examination hospital , remained Thursday afternoon .
Pete Huggins , Green Party spokesman , said Mr. Shaw told police assailant knew name , although officers said whether believe attack planned , motivated .
The episode rattled New Zealand , Mr. Huggins described “ close-knit community open society . ”
Unlike many countries , including United States Britain , prime minister lawmaker accompanied round-the-clock security personnel ; government ministers lawmakers . Residents Wellington , New Zealand ’ capital , regularly see elected officials walking cycling streets alone , politicians opt take public transportation rather using government vehicles .
“ I would hate see go , ” Marama Davidson , lawmaker leads Green Party Mr. Shaw , said news conference Thursday .
“ It would shame lose way people approach us access us country , ” added . “ That ’ one things I value way politics New Zealand . ”
The police arrested charged 47-year-old man attack Mr. Shaw . The man , police identify , appear Wellington District Court Friday .
Lawmakers across political spectrum joined condemning attack . Wellington ’ mayor , Justin Lester , wrote social media assailant ’ behavior “ outrageous ” New Zealanders “ lucky unparalleled access ” elected representatives .
Members public also expressed shock . One Twitter user branded attack Mr. Shaw “ assault democracy. ” Another said hoped attack “ awful one canary coal mine moment ” New Zealand .
Bryce Edwards , veteran New Zealand political commentator , said down-to-earth qualities commanded respect New Zealanders . “ We like politicians ‘ one us ’ ‘ us , ’ ” said .
While clear whether attack politically motivated , lawmakers took opportunity denounce said trend toward over-the-top reactions people disagreed politicians .
David Parker , trade minister lawmaker center-left Labour Party , cited called “ extreme opinion feeding political biases causing instability people ” “ fed social media platforms . ”
Ms. Ardern stopped short saying security beefed lawmakers . The episode took place inner-city area Wellington , minutes Ms. Ardern ’ residence .
Violence New Zealand lawmakers rare . The last one make global headlines recent years 2016 , government minister , Steven Joyce , hit face sex toy thrown protester , episode caused mirth fury .


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur
SHANGHAI — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei preparing sue United States government barring federal agencies using company ’ products , according two people familiar matter .
The lawsuit filed Eastern District Texas , Huawei American headquarters , according people , requested anonymity discuss confidential plans . The company plans announce suit week .
The move could aimed forcing United States government make case Chinese equipment maker publicly . It part broad push Huawei defend campaign led United States undermine company , Washington sees security threat . Executives spoken strongly America ’ actions , new marketing campaigns aimed mending company ’ image among consumers .
For many years , United States officials said Beijing could use Huawei ’ telecommunication equipment spy disrupt communication networks . The company denied allegations , major wireless carriers AT & T Verizon effectively prevented using Huawei ’ equipment result .
Over past year , Washington ramped pressure firm , preparing take major role construction next-generation wireless networks around world . American officials urged governments ban use Huawei ’ products . This year , Justice Department filed criminal charges company chief financial officer connection evading American sanctions Iran .
A hearing set begin week Canada determine whether company ’ finance chief , Meng Wanzhou , extradited United States face charges . Ms. Meng ’ lawyers sued Canadian government police , arguing circumstances arrest detention December violated rights .
[ Many Canadians see Ms. Meng ’ case example foreign money ’ influence Vancouver . ]
The criminal case Ms. Meng United States could complicated comments President Trump White House engaged trade negotiations China . While criminal cases traditionally independent matters , Mr. Trump indicated Huawei ’ fate could bargaining chip .
During meeting Oval Office delegation Chinese officials last month , Mr. Trump said , “ We ’ making decision , ” asked would drop criminal charges Huawei part trade deal . He added , “ We ’ talking attorney general . ”
A lawsuit Huawei United States expected challenge section defense spending authorization law approved last year . The provision blocks executive agencies using telecom equipment made Huawei another Chinese company , ZTE .
According one people familiar matter , Huawei likely argue provision “ bill attainder , ” legislative act singles person group punishment without trial . The Constitution forbids Congress pass bills .
Huawei ’ plans final . It could still decide change course , file lawsuit .
The United States Embassy Beijing immediately respond request comment . A call placed outside business hours United States Court House Plano , Tex. , Huawei ’ American headquarters , answered .
[ China announced espionage accusations former Canadian diplomat Monday , days Ms. Meng ’ extradition hearing set take place . ]
In many ways , Huawei case echoes another company aroused security concerns United States : Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab .
Around two years ago , American officials began expressing worries Moscow could use company ’ software gather intelligence . The company denied allegations . But September 2017 , Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies begin removing company ’ products government systems . Congress codified ban spending law .
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits response , arguing prohibition amounted bill attainder . In May , judge District Columbia dismissed suits , ruling Congress motivated legitimate desire protect government computer networks Russian intrusion . The judge also said Kaspersky ’ sales American government small fraction company ’ business ban especially harsh .
An appeals court upheld ruling months later . Banning Kaspersky “ prophylactic , punitive , ” measure , judge appeal , David S. Tatel , wrote .
“ Given insignificant probability Kaspersky ’ products could compromised federal systems magnitude harm intrusion could wrought , Congress ’ decision remove Kaspersky federal networks represents reasonable balanced response , ” Judge Tatel wrote .
Raymond Zhong reported Shanghai , Paul Mozur Hong Kong . Alan Rappeport contributed reporting Washington .
Follow Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur Twitter : @ zhonggg @ paulmozur .




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Azam Ahmed Kirk Semple
MEXICO CITY — Mexican officials carrying Trump administration ’ immigration agenda across wide stretches border , undercutting Mexican government ’ promises defend migrants support search better life .
The Mexican authorities blocking groups migrants border towns , refusing allow onto international bridges apply asylum United States , intercepting unaccompanied minors reach American soil , helping manage lists asylum seekers behalf American authorities limit number people crossing border .
Breaking decades asylum practice , Mexican government also allowed Trump administration send 120 men , women children Tijuana await decisions asylum applications United States . The program could expanded border crossings soon next week .
Officials inside administration Mexico ’ new president , Andrés Manuel López Obrador , called stance migrants strategic decision anger President Trump .
He ’ believe change Mr. Trump ’ mind , contend . Furthermore , officials say , Mr. López Obrador wanted jeopardize aspects deeply interconnected relationship two countries , ranging elaborate regional trading arrangements information sharing border security , transnational crime terrorism . So avoided bruising potentially costly public fight issue .
A lifelong defender poor , Mr. López Obrador often refers plans Mexico grand transformation , placing ambitions nation par great leaders .
He burnished everyman credentials cutting government salaries , flying coach around country opening opulent presidential palace public . He also vastly reduced number Central American migrants Mexico deports soil .
But everything transformed .
Exhibit A Migrant Protection Protocols , Trump administration ’ policy require asylum seekers remain Mexican side border await decisions fate . Rights groups contend dumps migrants increasingly violent Mexico impairs access legal counsel family support United States .
Mr. López Obrador ’ administration , came office saying would cooperate Mr. Trump ’ anti-immigration agenda , gone along several fronts , including accepting women children despite earlier promises take adult male asylum seekers .
The Mexican government argued policy requiring asylum seekers wait Mexico imposed United States consented humanitarian reasons .
It also true Mr. López Obrador , giving Mr. Trump ’ border demands rarely saying word American president daily press briefings carries little political cost home .
[ Read latest edition Crossing Border , limited-run newsletter life United States Mexico meet . Sign receive next issue inbox . ]
To many Mexicans , fate migrants secondary domestic concerns jobs , security corruption . Mr. López Obrador retains 80 percent approval rating , despite government ’ willingness take back migrants applying asylum United States .
“ If accept handful people back Mexico , ’ really problem us , even politically , ” said one official authorized discuss internal deliberations . “ What really want avoid public fight Trump . ”
But effort avoid cross-border fight , Mexican government chosen politics humanitarian ideals , critics contend .
“ Mexico continuing play role U.S. thinks , contain migrant influx , period , ” said Melissa Vertiz Hernández , coordinates Working Group Immigration Policy , network civil society rights groups Mexico .
The delicate balance United States left Mexican government without clear , consistent immigration policy , Mexican states municipalities along border often position fending pressure American counterparts .
In Mexican border city Reynosa , instance , almost one allowed cross bridge apply asylum neighboring McAllen , Texas . They typically blocked apprehended Mexican officials , forcing migrants try luck towns .
In city Piedras Negras , officials rounded hundreds migrants arrived caravan recent weeks kept tight watch shelter limited access outsiders , advocates say . After public outcry , center closed many bused cities towns along border .
The mayor Ciudad Juárez , meanwhile , threatened sue neighboring governor shipping migrants town . It become game political hot potato , desperate Central Americans fleeing poverty violence caught middle .
Elsewhere along border , shelter officials say manage lists asylum applicants name , nationality , age documentation assist Mexican officials complying American border patrol mandates .
The Mexican government resisting Mr. Trump ways , official Mr. López Obrador ’ government insisted . Even acquiescing Trump administration Migrant Protection Protocols done strategically , according official two others briefed plan .
By allowing program start San Diego Tijuana , Mexican officials argued , legal challenges United States go federal courts Northern District California , generally seen liberal . This matters time many Americans focused beat Mr. Trump 2020 elections , particular leveraging Mexican-American vote .
But many activists far confident legal challenge put end program .
“ I think ’ incredibly risky move , ” said Stephanie Leutert , director Mexico Security Initiative University Texas Austin . “ I ’ think put country ’ foreign migratory policy hands civil society organization another country . ”
On Feb. 14 , civil society organization , American Civil Liberties Union , several advocacy groups filed lawsuit challenging Trump administration ’ policy . A decision temporary restraining order expected coming days .
The lawsuit , filed behalf 11 asylum seekers returned Mexico recent weeks , accuses Trump administration violating federal international migration human rights laws .
Advocates contend forcibly sending asylum seekers Tijuana , Trump administration plunged unfamiliar dangerous environment lives may jeopardy .
Killings Tijuana skyrocketed recent years turf war local drug market . In 2018 , city posted deadliest year record , 2,500 killings .
The Trump administration first announced new policy December , Jan. 28 head Mexico ’ migration agency said Mexican government imposed restrictions enactment .
But Mexican officials backed many initial restrictions , including refusal accept women children . Trump administration officials said plan expand program ports entry along border . The López Obrador administration said little publicly changes .
In Tijuana , several returnees — three single men , single woman , two mothers traveling three children — described confusion dismay finding Mexico .
“ I idea I ’ going survive , ” said Yanira , 34-year-old migrant El Salvador feared pursued people said fleeing home country .
Yanira said left El Salvador three children — ages 8 , 11 12 — local gang tried recruit middle child threatened violence unless agreed .
When stepped onto Mexican soil led back across border American officials , broke .
“ I cried cried , ” recalled .
Mexican officials said provide shelter care returnees , essentially leaving network community groups Tijuana elsewhere state Baja California .
But shelter network extraordinary pressure almost-continual arrival migrants traveling caravans , pushed centers beyond capacity .
Sister Salomé Limas , social worker Instituto Madre Asunta migrant shelter Tijuana , said currently housing 120 women children — space designed 44 .
Among migrants several families seeking asylum United States returned recent weeks Trump policy .
Sister Salomé said shelter house families first court date United States , late March . After , sure .
“ What ’ going happen ? ” said . “ We ’ know . ”
Paulina Villegas contributed reporting Mexico City .
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday . ( Want email ? Sign . )
In wake two fatal crashes involving 737 Max 8 airplane shared similarities , Boeing finds prosecutors regulators inspecting development processes safety assessments .
• A grand jury Washington , D.C. , issued subpoena dated March 11 — day Ethiopian Airlines crash — seeking documents least one person involved development 737 Max jets , WSJ reports .
• The Transportation Department inspector general ’ office also reportedly examining plane ’ design certification second deadly crash .
• An investigation The Seattle Times found F.A.A . delegated wide responsibility 737 Max safety assessment Boeing . The resulting analysis included “ crucial flaws , ” according investigation .
• And Bloomberg reports early seven years ago , F.A.A . employees warned Boeing “ much sway safety approvals new aircraft . ”
Boeing said statement Sunday “ aircraft certification processes well established consistently produced safe aircraft designs. ” It added “ 737 Max certification program followed F.A.A. ’ standard certification process . ”
The ride-hailing company start road show I.P.O . today New York City . It ’ short ambition : Lyft hopes achieve valuation much $ 23 billion .
In updated prospectus , Lyft said hopes raise nearly $ 2.4 billion I.P.O . That figure close $ 2.16 billion revenue generated last year .
At high end proposed stock price , $ 68 , company would valued $ 23 billion . That would make stakes held company ’ founders , Logan Green John Zimmer , worth hundreds millions dollars apiece . The company expected price offering March 28 , would trade Nasdaq next day .
Lyft poised become one biggest market debuts tech company since Alibaba Group ’ I.P.O . 2014 . ( Until Uber goes public later year , least . )
But I.P.O . without controversy . It ’ facing backlash investors ’ happy dual-class stock structure . Paul Singer , head activist hedge fund Elliott Management , one , writing FT op-ed :
“ Those insight daring found business deserve respect . But sell vast majority company public , allowed run forever without shareholder input . Public ownership must mean public accountability . ”
The two German lenders announced yesterday formally begin merger talks . Now must convince critics combining good thing .
Deutsche Bank said reviewing “ strategic options ” shoring profitability growth . Christian Sewing , firm ’ C.E.O. , told employees , “ I consistently stressed consolidation German European banking sector important topic us . ”
The combined bank would one Europe ’ biggest , $ 2 trillion assets one-fifth private customers Germany .
Going public signals deal political backing . Germany ’ finance minister argued country needs strong national champion compete foreign banks . ( Here FT ’ list key decision-makers deal . )
But opposition merger strong . German unions criticized plan , fearing tens thousands job cuts . And Elisa Martinuzzi Bloomberg Opinion warns ’ fix bigger problems German banking system .
The Trump administration ’ campaign prevent countries using Huawei equipment 5G wireless networks faltered , Julian E. Barnes Adam Satariano NYT write .
American officials pressuring threatening nations shun Huawei . The push rooted U.S. concerns Chinese telecom companies significant security threat , could help Beijing spy nations .
But ’ really working . Britain , Germany , India United Arab Emirates signaled unlikely follow America ’ lead .
The U.S. campaign criticized lack evidence . American intelligence briefings reportedly failed clearly show Chinese government used Huawei steal information . ( Read five experts two senators say whether threat . ) Some European Asian officials also believe President Trump may fully support fight .
American officials want find ways curb Huawei ’ rise , Mr. Barnes Mr. Satariano write , “ including possibly restricting American companies supplying Huawei key components needs build 5G networks across world . ”
More : Huawei built operating system smartphones computers , used company longer use software developed Google Microsoft .
The financial sector ’ felt impact # MeToo much industries . But David Gelles NYT reports , lawsuit asset manager TCW could change .
• Sara Tirschwell , created distressed-debt fund TCW fired 2017 , sued firm ; former boss , Jess Ravich ; C.E.O. , David Lippman . She claimed dismissal retaliation reporting sexual harassment claim Mr. Ravich , gender discrimination breach contract .
• Ms. Tirschwell alleges Mr. Ravich pressured sex several times tenure firm . The first encounter made feel , according lawsuit , “ rejection would mean end Ravich ’ crucial support . ”
• TCW , Mr. Ravich Mr. Lippman denied allegations . “ I Sara ’ biggest supporter TCW role decision fire , ” Mr. Ravich said .
• So far , ’ talk settlement . Mr. Gelles writes , “ Days court rare movement — rarer still Wall Street , grievances typically dealt private , wire transfer , dealt . ”
Despite delivering disappointing returns investors , many C.E.O.s saw compensation climb last year , according WSJ .
• “ Median compensation 132 chief executives S & P 500 companies reached $ 12.4 million 2018 , $ 11.7 million group 2017 , ” WSJ calculates .
• “ Most C.E.O.s received substantial raises — median 6.4 percent — even though December stock-market swoon meant companies finished year posting sluggish shareholder returns . ”
• “ Markets pretty well , companies well , economy held , ” Robin Ferracone , executive-pay consultant , told WSJ .
• But also said boards may thinking forward economic slowdown , adding , “ They know ’ going bring bloom ’ rose . ”
The shooting mosque Christchurch , New Zealand , designed go viral internet . What ?
“ The attack teased Twitter , announced online message board 8chan broadcast live Facebook , ” Kevin Roose NYT writes . “ The footage replayed endlessly YouTube , Twitter Reddit , platforms scrambled take clips nearly fast new copies popped replace . ”
“ Online extremism regular extremism steroids . There offline equivalent experience algorithmically nudged toward strident version existing beliefs , ” Mr. Roose adds . “ People become fluent culture online extremism , make consume edgy memes , cluster harden . And , one erupts . ”
But telling terrorists trolls ’ easy tech companies , Christopher Mims WSJ argues . Knowing online extremists erupt act violence virtually impossible , broadcasts sudden acts violence hard automatically block .
More needs done . “ We need understand address poisonous pipeline extremism emerged past several years , whose ultimate effects impossible quantify clearly far big ignore , ” Mr. Roose writes . “ It ’ going away , ’ particularly getting better . ”
PG & E reportedly close naming Bill Johnson , outgoing head Tennessee Valley Authority , next C.E.O .
Google named Scott Beaumont , head greater China Korea operations , chief Asia-Pacific team .
Stuart Benson resigned C.F.O . MoviePass .
Princeville Capital , venture capital firm invests climate technology , recruited Leonardo DiCaprio adviser .
Deals
• Fidelity National Information Services agreed buy international payments processor , Worldpay , $ 34 billion . ( The companies )
• Caesars Entertainment Eldorado Resorts reportedly early merger talks . ( Reuters )
• Private equity firms like KKR CVC Capital Partners reportedly interested buying Bayer ’ animal-health division . ( Bloomberg )
• PagerDuty , popular start-up alerts I.T . workers tech problems need fixing , publicly filed I.P.O . ( Business Insider )
Politics policy
• Investors eagerly await Treasury Department ’ rules investing tax-advantaged opportunity zones . ( NYT )
• Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro monologue questioning Muslim lawmaker ’ loyalty U.S. — President Trump unhappy move . ( NYT )
• Cindy Yang , former owner massage parlor busted prostitution ring , come scrutiny political activities , including donations president ’ re-election campaign . ( NYT )
Brexit
• Prime Minister Theresa May expected put Brexit deal third parliamentary vote week , likely contingent gaining backing Democratic Unionist Party . ( FT )
• Meanwhile , Labour Party appears set support plan would seek public vote Mrs. May ’ deal approved lawmakers . ( Reuters )
Trade
• The U.S. China pushing meeting late April complete trade deal , negotiators still grappling details . ( NYT )
• The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska sued U.S. Treasury Department sanctions placed last year . ( CNBC )
• President Xi Jinping China starts series state visits Europe week bid bolster trade continent . ( Bloomberg )
Tech
• Marc Andreessen , Facebook board member , reportedly met Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Chris Wylie 2016 . If true , would suggest understood extent company ’ harvesting Facebook data . He denies claim . ( Observer , Business Insider )
• In related news , academic behind Cambridge Analytica ’ data mining sued Facebook defamation . ( NYT )
• Apple making billion-dollar bet take Netflix . Will work ? ( NYT )
• Tech investors including # MeToo clauses start-up deals . ( FT )
• Breaking tech giants suddenly become populist concept — San Francisco . ( NYT , Bloomberg )
Best rest
• In wake admissions scandal , colleges rethinking athletic special admissions . ( WSJ )
• The Fed likely say later week little appetite interest rate rises year . ( WSJ )
• Why successful joint ventures turn sour ? It ’ often success breeds desire control venture sought avoid . ( Economist )
• The European Central Bank unhappy E.U. ’ plans increasing supervision clearing houses . ( FT )
Thanks reading ! We ’ see tomorrow .
We ’ love feedback . Please email thoughts suggestions business @ nytimes.com .
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Andrew Higgins Mujib Mashal
MOSCOW — Thirty years last Soviet troops retreated Afghanistan , Russia Tuesday reasserted player region , hosting talks Taliban senior Afghan politicians aimed speeding exit another superpower — time United States .
The talks , held Moscow ’ President Hotel , owned Kremlin , offered clearer view Taliban see end 18-year war . In room dripping chandeliers , 50 delegates — many flowing robes , Western suits ties , nearly old sometimes violent rivals — faced across large , circular conference table .
While Afghan politicians , part delegation led former President Hamid Karzai , spoke protecting hard gains past two decades , Taliban denounced new Afghan Constitution lays system governance built enormous cost .
The Taliban representatives also offered rare look see role women . While barred women public life time power , said believed women ’ rights , including education work — claim met skepticism women Afghanistan .
The Moscow gathering , included Taliban delegation led chief negotiator , Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai , represented significant contact senior Afghan politicians Taliban since United States toppled hard-line Islamist group power end 2001 .
Absent talks , however , American-backed Afghan government President Ashraf Ghani , strongly criticized meeting affront designed undermine office ’ authority Afghan state .
Mr. Ghani uncomfortable position , odds American backers , sees moving quickly reach deal , also others country ’ political elite rallying around American-led effort .
“ What agreeing , ? Where implementing power ? ” Mr. Ghani told Afghan channel ToloNews Tuesday , dismissing talks . “ They could hold hundred meetings , Afghan government , Afghan Parliament , legal institutions Afghanistan approve , agreements paper . ”
The delegation headed Mr. Karzai consisted entirely former officials , representatives political parties — many involved country ’ bloody civil war — current members Parliament . There two women group .
Afghans social media critical delegation , questioning whether represented Afghanistan .
“ Those meeting Moscow , pushed aside , ” said Khaled Abedy , 31 , works private company Kabul , Afghan capital . “ They want build business . The country ’ important . I think sort meeting ’ help peace process . ”
But Atta Muhammad Noor , one Afghan politicians delegation Moscow , said participants considered representative Afghanistan Mr. Ghani ’ government .
“ We fighting 40 years , people influence , Ghani , ” said Mr. Noor , longtime governor Balkh Province Mr. Ghani dismissed last year .
Speaking sidelines event , said foreign forces , including around 14,000 American troops , must leave Afghanistan . But cautioned withdrawn gradually , avoid repeat chaos engulfed Afghanistan abrupt Soviet pullout 1989 .
The talks , scheduled last two days , opened week American diplomats Taliban representatives ended six days negotiations Doha , capital Qatar . Each side said negotiations made progress toward ending conflict began United States invaded Afghanistan 2001 , long terror attacks Sept. 11 .
Both sides said agreed , principle , framework two issues : Taliban guarantee Afghan soil would never used terrorist groups like Al Qaeda , pledge United States withdraw troops . But many Afghans concerned Americans might eager strike deal .
The organizer Moscow talks ostensibly Afghan diaspora Russia , Russian government . But Afghan officials Taliban members said Kremlin playing major role orchestrating meeting behind scenes .
Russia , chastened damage done Soviet Union occupation Afghanistan , shown interest getting involved militarily , least directly . But positioned force reckoned , relishing Washington ’ agonies hands Taliban insurgents .
Russia designated Taliban terrorist organization 2003 , first strongly supported American efforts purge Afghanistan extremist Islamist groups , President Vladimir V. Putin described threat Russia ’ security .
But amid rising Cold War-style rivalry Moscow Washington , Russia hedged bets opening channels Taliban . Moscow allowed 10-member delegation Taliban , still officially barred terrorists , enter Russia Moscow talks .
On Tuesday Afghanistan , violence continued unabated . The Taliban attacked police army outposts around northern city Kunduz dawn , killing least 23 members Afghan security forces . In Takhar Province , gunmen attacked women ’ radio station , killing two staff members .
Mr. Karzai made appeal end bloodshed , saying Afghan soldiers Taliban fighters buried next .
“ All around graveyards regular Afghans — graves plenty , ” Mr. Karzai said . “ The dream every mother , hope every father buried . ”
Mr. Karzai first installed Afghanistan ’ leader United States late 2001 , relationship soured . He visited Russia often since leaving office 2014 , meetings Mr. Putin officials aligned Moscow ’ view United States must leave Afghanistan , Soviet Union .
Mr. Stanekzai , Taliban ’ chief negotiator , said speech lasting half hour group seek monopolize power inside Afghanistan . He said pursuing Islamist government , “ consultation Afghans , ” group recognize country ’ current Constitution , calling copied West .
Perhaps revealing part speech came described Taliban ’ view future role Afghan women . When power , group sent religious police patrol streets , giving lashes women , among things , showing ankles .
“ We committed rights given women Islam , ” Mr. Stanekzai said . “ Islam given women fundamental rights — trade , ownership , inheritance , education , work choice partner , security education , good life . ”
Considering group ’ history , Afghan women immediately questioned statement ’ sincerity .
But Fawzia Koofi , female member Afghan Parliament one two women attendance , said happy heard Taliban promise women would stripped rights would allowed serve prime minister — though president .
However , cautioned , “ We gained much last 18 years , whatever problems , want go back Taliban period . ”
Andrew Higgins reported Moscow , Mujib Mashal Kabul , Afghanistan . Najim Rahim contributed reporting Mazar-i-Sharif , Afghanistan ; Fahim Abed Fatima Faizi Kabul ; Taimoor Shah Kandahar , Afghanistan .




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Christine Hauser
It like online matchmaking service . Horse lovers want adopt wild mustang western United States browse dozens headshots .
From drop-down menus , choose gender , color age : 4-year-old chestnut mare , example , 9-year-old gray gelding . Some horses training , others might “ gentled , ” experience handled .
This Wild Horses Online , part federal Bureau Land Management ’ online adoption service . Starting month , bureau trying make wild mustang adoptions attractive paying $ 1,000 take animals , gathered public land western United States part efforts manage population .
The adoption program , began March 12 , intended encourage potential owners take leap adopting wild horses , whose access pasture water challenged factors including rising population droughts , said Deborah Collins , bureau ’ outreach officer .
Ms. Collins said government hoped people would “ take fresh look ” owning wild horse say : “ I got little help . I go find trainer . ”
The program first incentive type Bureau Land Management offered since Wild Free-Roaming Horses Burros Act 1971 detailed agency ’ duties legal custodian wild horses burros United States .
Previously , people adopted wild mustang paying $ 125 . Now , paid $ 500 front receive $ 500 balance prove owned animal responsibly year , Ms. Collins said .
Carrie Jim Pacileo Powell , Wyo. , drove six hours March 15 adoption event Rock Springs . The couple already adopted two mustangs , one completely trained partly trained , wanted .
“ I told husband I wanted try train completely wild , ” Ms. Pacileo said .
They came home two mustangs : 9-month-old Remmi 11-month-old Stormy .
“ Being younger , thought maybe would easier , ” Ms. Pacileo said .
She said money receive adopting horses would invested equipment hay production 40 acres .
“ I wanted , like ultimate symbol America , ” said .
More 66,000 wild horses 15,000 burros roam 26 million acres 10 states , bureau ’ latest data shows . The ideal level populations combined 26,690 , according bureau .
The challenge bureau balance population animals available resources public private lands . Some found rambling along highways foraging backyards , discovered open range , emaciated dying thirst , Ms. Collins said .
The main method population control simply move . From July February , helicopters chase wild horses corrals facilities made available adoption , sold adopted .
Last year , 11,000 horses burros removed public lands , nearly decade , bureau figures show . As last month , 50,000 horses available adoption corrals off-range pastures long-term , Ms. Collins said .
Some bureau ’ measures attracted controversy use helicopters chase animals removal horses open range primary method population control . Some worried wild horses could end slaughterhouses abroad .
The American Wild Horse Campaign , advocacy group , said statement criticizing bureaus ’ new adoption program agency employ population control measures , fertility methods . “ The B.L.M . adopt way situation faces stockpiling 50,000 horses holding facilities , ” said Suzanne Roy , group ’ executive director .
Ms. Collins said bureau tried fertility measures , including sending volunteers administer birth control vaccinations mares wild . But effects vaccinations last year 18 months , results adequately addressed overpopulation , said .
The bureau ’ push make adoptions enticing focused training . The agency working nonprofit Mustang Heritage Foundation , started Extreme Mustang Makeover , national competition trainers 100 days turn wild mustang well-behaved steed .
Wild mustangs also trained federal prisons rehabilitation programs coordinated bureau .
The $ 1,000 adoption payout costs bureau half would keep animal year , Ms. Collins said . For owners , mustangs cost less keep breeds , thoroughbreds quarter horses , said Mary Santagata , adopts buys mustangs All Kings Horses , rescue organization Northford , Conn .
Adopted mustangs current vaccinations , Ms. Santagata said , annual veterinary care could cost $ 300 “ problems. ” About $ 50 every eight 10 weeks goes toward hooves professionally trimmed . Many owners feed mustangs hay , similar diet open range , rather expensive grain hay , said .
“ They hardy , ” Ms. Santagata said . “ They built survive . ”
Other costs include adapting corrals six-foot-high paneled fencing wild horses escape , providing open-sided sheds enter need shelter , easily led .
The expensive part owning wild horse , Ms. Santagata said , paying experienced trainers . At 41 , around horses life , said could handle basic “ gentling ” wild mustang . When horses corrals , uses soft opening , approaching retreating , get accustomed .
“ You walk around see reacts , ” said . “ I mustangs would look months . ”
She gradually introduces halters led around , able accomplish three months , said . For advanced skills like riding , sends mustangs professionals , grown know .
“ I look like I adopting living legend , ” Ms. Santagata said . “ They mystical creature wild , lucky ones find . ”




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Casey
BOGOTÁ , Colombia — Jorge Ramos , news anchor television network Univision , said detained Venezuelan government confrontational interview President Nicolás Maduro Monday evening Miraflores Palace Caracas .
“ He ’ like things asking lack democracy Venezuela , torture political prisoners , ” Mr. Ramos recounted Univision broadcast , said released government .
Mr. Ramos said detained “ two hours ” let go allowed return hotel . He said government confiscated crew ’ equipment , including phones memory cards .
“ We ’ anything , ” said . “ They interviews . ”
On Monday night , Kimberly Breier , assistant secretary state Western Hemisphere State Department , said Mr. Ramos detained called government release immediately .
“ The world watching , ” wrote Twitter .
Venezuela ’ government dispute account Mr. Ramos temporarily held , appeared lay blame anchor .
“ We ’ lend cheap shows , ” said Jorge Rodríguez , government communications minister .
He added , “ Hundreds journalists come received decent treatment always give journalistic work . ”
Mr. Ramos , Mexico-born American journalist , known confrontational questions , particularly leaders attacked press . In 2015 , tangled Donald J. Trump , presidential candidate , news conference Mr. Trump eventually guards force room .
“ Go back Univision , ” Mr. Trump said .
Univision largest Spanish-language television network United States .
Mr. Maduro recently stuck friendly interviews state television outlets .
But since current crisis , faces major challenge Venezuela ’ opposition , whose leader , Juan Guaidó also claims presidency , Mr. Maduro conducted number interviews international media outlets including BBC , Eurovision ABC , also conducted interview Monday .
In ABC interview , Mr. Maduro defended criticism blocking aid shipments , opposition White House demanded let pass Venezuela ’ borders Colombia Brazil .
“ Everything United States government done doomed failure , ” Mr. Maduro said . “ They ’ trying fabricate crisis justify political escalation military intervention Venezuela bring war South America . ”
Mr. Ramos said showing images children eating dumpster Mr. Maduro , common sight Venezuela , president presided shortages food medicine .
“ He got interview , ” Mr. Ramos said . “ Immediately afterward , one ministers , Jorge Rodríguez , came say interview ’ authorized . ”
Then , Mr. Ramos said , detained .
Later Monday night , Mr. Ramos , writes column syndicated New York Times Licensing Group , told Reuters crew would deported Tuesday .


video

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Best Late Night
By Giovanni Russonello
Welcome Best Late Night , rundown previous night ’ highlights lets sleep — lets us get paid watch comedy . If ’ interested hearing The Times regularly great TV , sign Watching newsletter get recommendations straight inbox .
Stephen Colbert admitted ’ happy see President Trump Congress apparently nearing border security deal , would help avert government shutdown . But said wished could press reset political conversation .
“ We ’ supposed care whether Trump Nancy lost , Trump caved Nancy ’ dancing end zone , ” said . “ But nothing — nothing — happened government 2019 affected anyone . Where ’ infrastructure bill ? Where ’ immigration bill ? Where ’ fix health care ? We celebrating — supposed celebrating — ’ close deal achieve absolute minimum : government ! ”
Colbert pointed reports preparations possible border wall already damaged butterfly habitats Texas . He argued Trump ought sympathy insects .
“ After , ’ got lot common butterflies . They ’ fragile creatures bright , iridescent coloring paper-thin skin . It ’ Trump never left larval stage. ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
Colbert also tweaked Democrats showed clip Representative Nita Lowey insisting lawmakers agreed fund partial “ barrier , ” “ wall . ”
“ Oh , wall , barrier ! A clinching legal argument first made landmark case Potato v. Potato. ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
Jimmy Kimmel ’ excited recent news sequel film “ Frozen ” come fall .
“ Just ‘ Baby Shark ’ song ’ finally starting get heads , ’ new batch ‘ Frozen ’ songs way . For ’ kids , ‘ Frozen ’ street-legal drug children ’ 10 times addictive ‘ Paw Patrol ’ gummy worms combined . In one , Disney finally answer question , ‘ What made bunch money ? ’ ” — JIMMY KIMMEL
Trevor Noah excited Howard Schultz ’ middle-of-the-road potential candidacy . He criticized Schultz , former chief executive Starbucks , saying CNN town hall ’ “ see race . ”
“ It would , like , ‘ How going solve black unemployment ? ’ And guy would like , ‘ What mean black unemployment ? All I see staggering unemployment among people named Jamal . Anyway , ’ February , happy History Month ! ’ ” — TREVOR NOAH
“ Tomorrow Valentine ’ Day . St. Valentine , course , patron saint seasonal marketing. ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
“ Tomorrow , Auntie Anne ’ offering special heart-shaped pretzels . It ’ great deal hopeless romantics taking dates La Guardia. ” — JIMMY FALLON
Samantha Bee went bat ambitious Green New Deal plan Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez unveiled month .
On “ Conan , ” Kay Jewelers Tinder Collection featured bejeweled inscriptions “ Please Don ’ Murder Me ” “ What ’ Your Last Name ? ”
Bradley Cooper , director star “ A Star Is Born , ” “ The Late Show ” Thursday . With Oscars 10 days away , anticipation probably hang air .
Aubrey Plaza hosting Film Independent Spirit Awards month . She ’ die-hard fan independent cinema , looking forward bringing back “ intimate vibe ” awards show televised .
Plus , Ideas What Watch Tonight :
The 50 Best Movies Netflix Right Now
The 25 Best Films 21st Century
The Best Movies Amazon Prime Video Right Now
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
It ’ another sign President Trump ’ weakness .
By David Leonhardt
Opinion Columnist
This article part David Leonhardt ’ newsletter . You sign receive weekday .
President Trump ’ emergency declaration border wall based obvious falsehood : There emergency U.S.-Mexico border . And goaded declaration Sean Hannity , episode makes mockery federal government .
But relative scheme Trump ’ misbehavior , emergency declaration ’ rank high . It ’ corruption obstruction justice . It ’ attempt undermine America ’ alliance Western Europe . And ’ even matter much immigration policy . If ’ trying calibrate Trump-related outrage , take deep breath morning .
“ A presidential declaration emergency order construct wall would stupid , ” Lawfare ’ Quinta Jurecic wrote . “ It would wasteful . It would test limits president ’ authority law question . But would , , step toward authoritarianism. ” ( Here ’ longer version case . )
[ Listen “ The Argument ” podcast every Thursday morning , Ross Douthat , Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt . ]
“ This challenged courts immediately , pretty easy throw thing , ” Neal Katyal , former acting solicitor general , predicted Lawrence O ’ Donnell ’ MSNBC show last night .
“ Trump ’ fake emergency sign weakness strength , ” tweeted The New Yorker ’ John Cassidy . “ He ran wall , two years Republican control Congress , still ’ get financed . Weak president . ”
And Philip Klein The Washington Examiner made conservative case declaration : “ The hope limited government conservatives emergency declaration gets quickly enjoined , eventually nixed , federal court . At least , silver lining would legal precedent would set president attempt end around Congress . ”
The China rivalry
“ I ’ always thought Americans would come together realized faced dangerous foreign foe , ” colleague David Brooks writes . “ And lo behold , one : China . It ’ become increasingly clear China grave economic , technological intellectual threat United States world order . ”
I agree United States complacent geopolitical challenge China poses .
If subscriber newsletter , subscribe . You also join Twitter ( @ DLeonhardt ) Facebook .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram .
David Leonhardt former Washington bureau chief Times , founding editor The Upshot head The 2020 Project , future Times newsroom . He 2011 Pulitzer Prize commentary , columns financial crisis . @ DLeonhardt • Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Why American conservatism Trump may learn like state .
By Ross Douthat
Opinion Columnist
Since conservatism became movement 1950s , American right understood defending written American Constitution unwritten one well — kind cultural social constitution , deeply rooted national history , checks balances official political system help sustain .
Under constitution America three branches government great diversity power centers — religious corporate , familial philanthropic . Under constitution important institutions national life ’ political ones ; ’ institutions civil society , flourished — conservative argument goes — precisely government kept within limits , state ’ co-opted crushed rivals influence power .
Thus conservatives preach virtues “ limited government , ” ’ Herbert Hoover ’ rugged individual imagine defending . They envision larger communitarian panoply — civic associations , religious denominations , charities universities private schools — needs protection jealousy centralizing state . And tend assume keeping American corporation embedded communitarian system better way balance productivity innovation public-spiritedness trying regulate micromanage businesses good behavior .
If wanted summarize intellectual uncertainties conservatives Trump era , could say right trying figure whether unwritten American constitution imagines defending still exists . And ’ , ’ failing , whether means “ limited government ” slogan strategy increasingly irrelevant comes shaping society conservatives would like America .
The latter argument Donald Trump implicitly pressed optimistic opponents 2016 primaries . They defenders American dream conservatives long defined , dark , conspiratorial tones businessman rival raised set uncomfortable questions . Is America still nation thriving local communities energetic civic life ? Is America still deeply religious country , strong churches growing denominations ? Are American businessmen basically public spirited , eager compete equal terms government removes heavy hand , natural allies political movement wedded patriotism religion ?
For years conservative critics sociologists intellectuals acknowledging answers might — country ’ once-rich associational civic religious life declining dissolving , corporate America embraces conservative slogans keep taxes low unions weak otherwise seems post-patriotic performatively woke , “ silent majority ” hardworking , pious , culturally conservative blue-collar families essentially defunct .
Many best conservative books last decade , “ Coming Apart ” Charles Murray “ The Fractured Republic ” Yuval Levin , describe emerging America ’ much resemble Tocquevillian family-church-community landscape familiar past conservative descriptions American exceptionalism . The latest example “ Alienated America : Why Some Places Thrive While Others Collapse ” Tim Carney , mix sociology shoe-leather reporting convincingly situates rise Trump context Middle America ’ communitarian collapse .
But accounts like Carney ’ acknowledge role economic forces — globalization , trade , deindustrialization — dissolution family community , also tend insist , contra liberals new socialist vanguard ( also contra Trump ) , cultural collapse ’ primarily driven economic policy decisions ’ reversed public policies programs . Instead tend suggest state interventions often replace community instead strengthening cast communitarian revival necessarily local project , government play best supporting , ’ t-make-matters-worse kind role .
These kind arguments still continuity , , basic conservative posture last generations . But also increasingly partisans rupture right , loose group state-power conservatives hint Tocquevillian dream dying cause “ limited government ” increasingly irrelevant — turn would require conservatives become comfortable using power state , engaged centralized policymaking specific social cultural ends mind .
This argument visible controversy surrounding Tucker Carlson ’ monologue month ago , stirred libertarian backlash calling Republicans use government policy make American life friendlier families , particularly single-earner households . It also informs difference Carney ’ book smart right-of-center volume moment , Oren Cass ’ “ The Once Future Worker. ” The two authors share certain common ground , end Carney concludes “ current economic social ills … solved even significantly ameliorated president , central government , ” Cass ’ whole thesis wiser policymaking could make big difference unhappy heartlanders Carney profiles .
But fullest case rupture , declaring “ era limited government , ” offered two recent essays conservative intellectual journals — Dan McCarthy ’ “ A New Conservative Agenda ” First Things , Gladden Pappin ’ “ Toward Party State ” American Affairs . Both envision conservatism oriented less toward state-as-enemy state-as-danger much toward state-as-shaper state-as-harmonizer . For instance , McCarthy ’ account economic nationalism Donald Trump transmuted something less inchoate effective :
Economic nationalism tariffs . It less “ economic ” “ nationalism ” — , takes account different needs different walks life regions country , serving whole serving parts drawing ­together . In past , challenge harmonize farmers , urban capital labor . The challenge balance groups postindustrial classes well , strengthen productive economy largely fictional economy administrators clerks . All sake prosperity , raw dollar terms , national economy provides basis healthy culture citizens families flourish .
Pappin makes similar argument political coalitions , especially right , adapt current challenge “ illiberal ” “ post-liberal ” forces , populist socialist :
Rather asking question “ What conservatives/progressives ? ” considerable advances made certain purely practical considerations : “ How integrity national political community assured ? ” “ How commercial activity technological development continue turned toward common good , toward strategic advantage ? ” “ What reins power , , state , ensure common good citizens ? ”
The likely answers “ practical ” questions , Pappin contends , require conservatives make practical “ use administrative state ” right-wing ends , rather constantly returning “ plaintive , nostalgic counterproductive calls abolition . ”
A hostile reader essays , libertarian liberal , might respond vision right-wing governments seek reshape culture mediate classes resembles nothing much early-20th century fascism . A sympathetic reader would say , plenty space state-friendly conservative politics movement conservatism Mussolini , McCarthy Pappin envisioning might better described blend American Hamiltonian tradition 21st-century update French Gaullism .
And subtle reader might say ’ trying provide theory move Republican Party power tends make anyway — last two G.O.P . presidents , sense , “ big government conservatives ” — far without strategy , seriousness self-consciousness required make project success .
I enough skepticism efficacy state power uncertain project succeed . But post-Trump conservatives likely drawn state-power conservatism theoretical ambition sense political necessity .
The earlier conservative self-understanding , right defending nongovernmental institutions power state , tacitly depended assumption many nongovernmental institutions would friendly conservative values . But civil society decayed recent decades , remaining power centers also become increasingly left-wing .
Already-liberal institutions — universities , Hollywood , big foundations mass media — uniformly allied left even recent past . Corporate America happily donates Republicans fears Bernie Sanders presidency , cultural issues big business courts younger customers progressive lobbying propaganda . In religion , Catholicism Pope Francis aspires ( scandals permitting ) ease way leftward well , leaving evangelical Christianity isolated bastion little culture-shaping power .
Yet conservatives still win White House Congress , means one power center hope control one notionally organized limit — administrative state .
If assume people tend seek power , devise justifications seeking power , plausibly exercised , state-power conservatives may need strongest intellectual arguments change way right thinks state . Instead limited government conservatism may give way attempt improve Trumpism clearer blueprints smarter cadres reason changes often happen political ideology — people whose thinking changing feel ’ choice .
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTOpinion ) Instagram , join Facebook political discussion group , Voting While Female .
Ross Douthat Opinion columnist The Times since 2009 . He author several books , recently , “ To Change Church : Pope Francis Future Catholicism. ” You follow Twitter : @ DouthatNYT
You follow Twitter : @ DouthatNYT
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Eurotunnel sued Department Transport handling contracts provide extra freight capacity .
By Amie Tsang
LONDON — Add list headaches faced Britain ’ government frantically tries prepare Brexit : 33 million pound ( $ 44 million ) payment settle lawsuit brought Eurotunnel , company operates rail link France Britain .
Eurotunnel sued Britain ’ Department Transport handling contracts provide extra transportation capacity event country leaves European Union without deal place .
The company accused British government limiting competition open bidding contracts , worth millions dollars , according court filings .
In December , Britain ’ government signed contracts DFDS , Danish shipping company , Brittany Ferries , French company , supply extra freight capacity bring essential goods medicines country event no-deal Brexit .
The government also signed contract Seaborne Freight , ferry company later found BBC run ferry service . The deal came heavy criticism , one lawmaker calling “ shell company. ” The firm also ridiculed echoing website terms conditions business specializing takeout meals . Seaborne Freight pulled contract .
The government settled case Eurotunnel avoid prolonged legal tussle tries make arrangements March 29 , country scheduled exit European Union .
Government departments Britain ’ businesses furiously preparing case country leaves European Union without agreement setting terms separation . There fears lack clarity port arrangements could lead gridlock roads problems getting food medicine people Britain .
“ We taking steps ensure supply chains continue function , whatever circumstances departure , mitigation place avoid disruption borders , ” Stephen Barclay , Brexit secretary , said statement Friday .
Chris Grayling , transport secretary , added , “ While disappointing Eurotunnel chose take legal action contracts place ensure smooth supply vital medicines , I pleased agreement ensure Channel Tunnel ready post-Brexit world . ”
Eurotunnel agreed withdraw case take unspecified actions improve security traffic flow .
“ Eurotunnel concluded out-of-court agreement secretary state transport ensure Channel Tunnel remains preferred route vital goods travel E.U . U.K. , ” company said .
​Amie Tsang general assignment business reporter based London , covered variety topics , including gender pay gap , aviation London Fatberg . @ amietsang
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday . Want email ? Sign .
Bipartisan negotiations forge border security deal broke yesterday , potentially setting federal government another shutdown ahead Friday deadline .
What happened ? “ The impasse appears center Democratic demands limit number unauthorized immigrants already country could detained Immigration Customs Enforcement officers , according aides familiar talks , ” according NYT . Republicans wanted exception cap criminals ; Democrats said proposed 16,500-bed cap left enough room .
What ’ stake ? The last shutdown , longest U.S. history , cost American economy $ 11 billion tanked President Trump ’ political standing public . Another shutdown could cause economic harm , hitting I.R.S . tax season starts .
What ’ next ? Lawmakers could pass another short-term spending bill , though many reluctant punt final budget agreement . Meanwhile , Mr. Trump preparing hold rally supporters El Paso . ( Many city ’ happy . ) But really two choices , according Axios : shut government declare national emergency get border wall money , “ options horrible . ”
The Amazon founder risked embarrassment going public said extortion attempt The National Enquirer . So far , ’ scoring big points ( “ Saturday Night Live ” jokes aside ) .
His disclosure gotten results . Federal prosecutors reviewing extortion claim , NYT reports , citing unnamed sources . If The Enquirer ’ parent company broke law , would violation nonprosecution agreement paying hush money help President Trump 2016 . ( A lawyer publisher ’ chairman said yesterday company committed crime . )
And ’ winning P.R . battle . At time billionaires reviled , Maureen Dowd NYT writes , “ richest dude earth managed come traumatic week inspiring admiration. ” ( Glenn Greenwald The Intercept counters would odd Mr. Bezos gain pity , given Amazon “ critical partner U.S. government building ever-more invasive , militarized sprawling surveillance state . ” )
Where The Enquirer go wrong ? Danny Westneat The Seattle Times points picked fight head company powerful got Seattle change tax policies $ 3 billion tax incentives New York office space . “ You ’ pressure Amazon . It goes way around , ” Mr. Westneat writes .
But Mr. Bezos could still lose . Jon Swartz Barron ’ notes Amazon shares fell 2.6 percent Friday . “ His hands-on management considered crucial success company anything pulls attention away day-to-day management least concern investors , ” Mr. Swartz writes .
Fears Britain ’ withdrawal E.U . could roil economies officially spread across Atlantic .
Wall Street warned Brexit ’ impact . “ With less seven weeks go U.K. due leave E.U. , several S & P 500 groups first time put Wall Street formal notice risks London Brussels fail reach divorce deal , ” FT reports . Companies like Lockheed Martin , McCormick , Expedia Cadbury spoken .
Driving concern fears depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable Britain , costs imported British goods could rise . There ’ also fear broader effect Brexit global political economic stability .
American banks also nervous . “ While U.S. banks want Britain maintain closest possible ties EU Brexit , U.K. banks insurers anxious ’ become beholden new laws made Brussels , ” Bloomberg reports .
More Brexit news : The E.U. ’ chief Brexit negotiator , Michel Barnier , said “ reopen ” existing Brexit deal , open reworking political declaration accompanies . The British government trying secure extra two weeks win concessions Europe promising lawmakers another vote Britain ’ withdrawal options . And Prime Minister Theresa May also offered concessions opposing Labour Party break current impasse Parliament .
Americans getting rude surprise : Their refunds appear getting smaller , despite President Trump Republicans passing huge set tax cuts year ago .
How big drop ? “ The average refund $ 1,865 8.4 percent smaller average refund period last year , ” Reuters reports , citing figures I.R.S . Heather Long WaPo adds number people receiving refund fallen nearly 25 percent far . ( The I.R.S . warns read much figures , part data — result delayed processing due government shutdown . )
Why happening ? It ’ actually sign Americans paying taxes . “ People generally got piece tax cut last year gradually form lower withholding paychecks , ” Joseph Rosenberg Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center told WaPo .
People angry nonetheless . The WaPo reports : “ People already taken social media , using hashtag # GOPTaxScam , vent anger . Many blame President Trump Republicans shrinking refunds . Some Twitter even said ’ vote Trump seeing refunds slashed . ”
The last class tech companies gained valuations $ 1 billion , including Uber Airbnb , remade entire industries . Don ’ expect next wave nearly flashy , according Erin Griffith NYT .
Who ? They names like Benchling , Checkr Zola , many create software specific industries — including data analysis systems farmers background checks gig workers .
Why ’ exciting predecessors ? Ms. Griffith points Uber , Airbnb peers “ built global empires simply taking existing businesses — like taxis , food delivery hotels — making mobile. ” Easy opportunities disrupt traditional businesses dried , forcing new companies find smaller niches .
But ’ underestimate potential . “ Maybe ’ sexy companies first wave , ” venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded NYT . But Anand Sanwal data provider CB Insights said still growing fast , adding , “ If one high-momentum companies , investors going beating door much interest investing next big winner . ”
Christine Lagarde , managing director International Monetary Fund , warned yesterday global economy “ growing slowly anticipated . ”
She sees four big risks . “ Trade tensions tariff escalations , financial tightening , uncertainty related Brexit outcome spillover impact accelerated slowdown Chinese economy ” “ clouds ” horizon , told World Government Summit Dubai .
And could spell trouble . “ When many clouds , ” added , takes one lighting bolt “ start storm . ”
But I.M.F . thinks Fed playing smart . “ The fact Fed put pause raising rates going provide lot support economy , ” Gita Gopinath , I.M.F. ’ top economist , told FT. “ We endorse Fed view data-driven approach . ”
President Trump expected sign executive order today meant spur development regulation artificial intelligence , Cade Metz NYT writes .
The news : Mr. Trump introduce “ American A.I . Initiative , ” aims better educate workers field , improve access cloud computing services data needed build A.I . systems , promote cooperation foreign powers .
Context : “ A.I . experts across industry , academia government long called Trump administration make development artificial intelligence major priority , ” Mr. Metz writes , adding “ concerned China could surpass United States ” development technologies .
But : “ The order set aside funds A.I . research development , ” Mr. Metz adds , “ administration provided details put new policies effect . ”
Steve Mandel stepped head hedge fund Lone Pine Capital .
Among reasons Santander rescinded offer hire investment banker Andrea Orcel ? Reportedly desire attend World Economic Forum Davos , Switzerland .
Kristina Salen , former chief financial officer shopping site Etsy , joined Moda Operandi , luxury fashion start-up , C.F.O .
The English Premier League looking America successor C.E.O. , Richard Scudamore . British candidates appear uninterested job .
Deals
• The aluminum-parts maker Arconic plans break . ( WSJ )
• Apollo Global Management reportedly near deal buy Cox Enterprises ’ 14 regional TV stations $ 3 billion . ( Reuters )
• The medical equipment maker Smith & Nephew reportedly held talks buy NuVasive , maker medical instruments spinal surgeries , $ 3 billion . ( FT )
• TPG Capital closed seventh Asia-focused private equity fund $ 4.6 billion . ( Reuters )
Politics policy
• Democratic lawmakers proposing steep new taxes superrich — public loves . ( NYT )
• Senator Michael Bennet , Democrat Colorado potential presidential candidate , says cutting private health insurance part Medicare “ bad opening offer. ” ( Politico )
• President Trump succeeded dividing Democrats warning socialism . ( Hill )
• The biggest star Clive Davis ’ exclusive pre-Grammys gala ? Speaker Nancy Pelosi . ( AP )
Trade
• Trade talks U.S. China resume today Beijing . ( Straits Times )
• White House officials reportedly discussed summit meeting President Trump President Xi Jinping China Mar-a-Lago next month resolve trade fight . ( Axios )
• The trade agreement replace Nafta faces uphill climb Congress . ( Axios )
Tech
• Some Amazon executives reportedly reconsidering decision set campus New York , opponents think might bluff . ( WSJ , Recode )
• Huawei threatened sue Czech Republic country ’ cybersecurity agency rescind warning risk company poses nation ’ critical infrastructure . ( NYT )
• Sprint accused AT & T false advertising , saying rival incorrectly telling customers receiving 5G data service . ( WSJ )
• Tesla may finally delivering Model 3s , ’ keep servicing . ( WSJ )
Best rest
• A new activist hedge fund , Impactive Capital , rarity : It ’ female- minority-led . ( WSJ )
• Household staples , diapers baking soda , may get expensive . ( WSJ )
• U.S. colleges raised $ 46.7 billion year ended last June , led Harvard $ 1.4 billion . ( Bloomberg )
• Here ’ rundown 100 sustainable U.S. companies , according Barron ’ . ( Barron ’ )
• How Fed ’ recent U-turn rates cascaded global markets . ( NYT )
Thanks reading ! We ’ see tomorrow .
We ’ love feedback . Please email thoughts suggestions business @ nytimes.com .
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ivan Nechepurenko
MOSCOW — Russian lawmakers , moving restrict freedom speech , passed bills Thursday would introduce jail terms fines insulting government online spreading so-called fake news .
The bills seen effort pre-empt control public criticism Russia ’ prolonged economic stagnation pushes Kremlin ’ approval ratings . They reflect nearly two-decade-long project President Vladimir V. Putin put information flow state control , push made difficult growth internet .
The new measures await final passage upper chamber parliament Mr. Putin ’ signature . He expressed support restrictions insulting state online .
One set bills passed lower house , Duma , would subject private individuals fines $ 3,000 15 days administrative arrest insulting government online . Individuals would face fines $ 6,000 posting termed fake news .
Another bill would demand news media outlets websites remove information shows “ clear disrespect ” society , state symbols , Russian Constitution government . Internet service providers website owners would one day remove insults , face complete block .
Lawmakers also passed bill would force websites immediately remove “ false , publicly important information ” government watchdog deems threat public order .
The measures stipulate clearly would considered fake news . The authors said interviews would determined state prosecutors government communications watchdog .
Critics said measures loosely defined allow government block information online finds undesirable .
With bills ’ wording “ vague possible , ” Vladimir A. Ryzhkov , opposition politician , said Facebook , “ create possibilities widest possible arbitrariness law enforcement . As result , society ’ trust government fall public atmosphere poisoned . ”
As Russians switch television — largely controlled state Kremlin allies — internet main source information , government made keeping web control top priority .
In February , lawmakers proposed creating infrastructure separate Russia global internet altogether . Last year , state banned Telegram , popular messaging app .
The Russian government opened assault so-called fake news even United States accused Moscow engaging practice , disinformation campaign intended sway 2016 American presidential election .
The new bills passed Russians ’ trust government agencies Mr. Putin particular steadily declining . For first time since annexation Crimea 2014 , number Russians say country heading wrong direction surpassed say opposite . The finding came poll conducted January independent pollster Levada .
The share people approve Mr. Putin ’ work president declined 20 percentage points since reached post-Crimea peak 86 percent 2015 .
Nikolai F. Uskov , editor Forbes Russia magazine frequent commentator , said bills government ’ “ weapon media . ”
“ The government clearly getting ready protest moods grow reflected publications social networks media , ” said , speaking Ekho Moskvy , radio station . “ I ’ think save state , ” added , “ wave anger sweep away restrictions . ”
Follow Ivan Nechepurenko Twitter : @ INechepurenko .


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By David Zucchino Fahim Abed
KABUL , Afghanistan — Afghanistan ’ coalition government fired Tuesday commissioners directed fraud-tainted parliamentary elections last fall , country prepares presidential race summer watches , leaders sidelines , peace talks unfold Americans Taliban .
The move follows push opposition politicians postpone election form interim government , part peace deal , could include Taliban . President Ashraf Ghani , fumed government ’ exclusion American-Taliban talks , insisted election held time .
The firings , came series meetings government , civil society groups political parties , portrayed badly needed consensus electoral reform . The commissioners called dismissal political decision officials hope serve new government .
The election already pushed back April July . The panel behind decision , Independent Election Commission , one two whose members removed Tuesday .
Replacement commissioners named Mr. Ghani coalition partner , Abdullah Abdullah , charged preparing presidential election feature men candidates .
Mr. Ghani said central government strong mandate negotiate behalf country . The Taliban , dealing directly Americans , refused include Afghan government consider illegitimate .
Zalmay Khalilizad , leader American delegation , said last week hoped secure peace deal July election . He said last month United States Taliban agreed principle framework peace deal .
The Afghan election commission widely accused sowing confusion disarray October parliamentary elections , three years late tainted accusations vote-rigging , bribery incompetence . Winners certified third 250 seats Parliament .
The attorney general ’ office prosecuted 313 people accused violations including forging selling election stickers national ID cards needed cast vote .
In statement late Tuesday , office said 12 commissioners two election bodies barred leaving country , investigators appointed look charges abuse authority .
The firings set legal confrontation , dismissed members saying move violated election law .
“ The amendment election law presidential decree president also candidate Constitution , ” commissioners said joint statement . “ This political decision , legal constitutional one . ”
Mr. Ghani ’ deputy spokesman , Shahhusain Murtazawi , said election results remain place . He said protests could lodged second affected commission , called Independent Election Complaint Commission , judicial groups . The head commission ’ secretariat remains place acting director .
Given officials administered election fired , roughly 2,000 losing candidates expected protest . If results re-examined canceled , would affect preparations presidential election already behind schedule — assurance required funding place .
One losing parliamentary candidate , Fawad Aman , said anyone seated Parliament would remain cloud suspicion . And commissioners punished , said , Afghans could lose faith electoral process refrain voting .
“ If dismissed prosecuted , means political game president influence election commissions presidential election , ” Mr. Aman said .
Nayim Ayubzada , head Transparent Election Foundation Afghanistan , independent election monitoring group , said firings made hastily government paid little attention legal process addressing fraud accusations .
“ We worry decision president candidate may things turn things favor , ” Mr. Ayubzada said . “ If decides hastily election issues , raise questions transparency elections . ”
Mr. Ghani Mr. Abdullah appoint new heads members commissions , selected candidates put forward civil society groups political parties within next week .
Supporters firings said necessary make commissioners accountable bungling expensive election process secured Afghan forces amid raging war . Each Afghan election , bankrolled international donations , proved least problematic last .
The 2014 presidential election fraudulent , two leading candidates claimed victory , nearly tore country apart prompted Western officials step mediators . John Kerry , secretary state , negotiated power-sharing government top two candidates , Mr. Ghani Mr. Abdullah , promise would prioritize election reforms avoid another fiasco .
The two men slow make progress reforms , given infighting government war Taliban . Now Mr. Ghani Mr. Abdullah get name new commissioners oversee election peak summer fighting season peace process plays .
Those challenges left many Afghans skeptical new commissioners . Mr. Ayubzada , election observer , said doubted presidential election would even held year , process “ overshadowed ongoing peace talks political dealing . ”
Mujib Mashal contributed reporting Kandahar , Afghanistan .




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Tuesday . Want email ? Sign .
Democratic Republican negotiators said last night “ agreement principle ” border security funding could keep federal government open .
The deal includes $ 1.38 billion pay 55 miles new fencing , technology staffing border protection . It ’ $ 5.7 billion President Trump demanded build 200-mile wall . Democrats waived demand limits detention capacity immigrants .
But ’ guarantee go . The House Senate would vote pact , Mr. Trump would sign . “ I think everyone say , ‘ Good work , ’ ” Representative Kay Granger Texas , one Republican negotiators , said . Still , rally Texas last night , Mr. Trump insisted build wall . And influential Republican commentators like Fox News host Sean Hannity called deal “ garbage compromise . ”
The remaining alternatives hugely unattractive . Politico notes potential White House plan redirect unspent federal funds toward wall would “ create firestorm. ” And another government shutdown could hit U.S. economy endanger aviation safety .
The British prime minister scheduled update lawmakers later today progress negotiations withdrawing E.U .
She big favor ask . Mrs. May focused making changes so-called backstop exit deal , designed prevent hard border Ireland Northern Ireland . She made little headway . Bloomberg explains plan today :
• Mrs. May “ update Parliament progress talks E.U . outline motion ’ put M.P.s debate Thursday , office said . ”
• She “ expected ask Parliament restate demand remove backstop Withdrawal Agreement promise vote ’ brought renegotiated deal back Parliament Feb. 27 . ”
• The aim “ reassure members across House Commons concerned May deliberately running clock risking potentially disastrous no-deal divorce . ”
But E.U . still ’ budging . Its chief Brexit negotiator , Michel Barnier , said yesterday “ something give British side . ”
Yet Mrs. May could force plan Parliament . Bloomberg explains , though also admits “ lot could go wrong . ”
More Brexit news : Britain weakest economic growth six years last year . It signed trade deal Switzerland , biggest since 2016 Brexit referendum . And government sued awarding contract freight shipments no-deal Brexit ferry company boats .
The former Fed chairman recently sat Ray Dalio Bridgewater Capital wide-ranging conversation , topics state U.S. principles good government . Don ’ time watch ? Here highlights :
On Washington : Mr. Volcker lamented condition U.S. government , repeating past criticisms . “ You ’ got presidents ’ seem mind either personal behavior making outrageous statements , true , ” told Mr. Dalio . “ You Congress ’ unable function effectively . ”
On Civil Service : For former Fed chairman , important problem solve make government work appear honorable . “ Public administration ’ bad word , ” told Mr. Dalio , leaving important government departments without effective leaders .
What Mr. Volcker : He set Volcker Alliance , meant help schools train future government officials . “ It ’ great trick , ” Mr. Volcker said . “ How get expertise leadership need still respect popular desire ? ”
Optimism personal finances ’ high 16 years , according study Gallup .
Sixty-nine percent Americans expect better time next year . That “ two percentage points all-time high 71 percent , recorded March 1998 , ” according Gallup . That ’ survey carried Jan. 2 Jan. 10 , middle government shutdown .
Half respondents say ’ better year ago . That figure consistently half since 2007 , Gallup says .
The optimism hard overstate . “ Only 11 times 109 polls stretching back 1976 least half polled said better financial shape year prior , ” Gallup notes . “ Only 114 polls going back 1977 Americans optimistic personal finances coming year today . ”
“ Europe sleepwalking oblivion , people Europe need wake late , ” George Soros writes opinion piece Project Syndicate :
• “ Neither leaders ordinary citizens seem understand experiencing revolutionary moment , range possibilities broad , eventual outcome thus highly uncertain . ”
• “ The next inflection point elections European Parliament May 2019 . Unfortunately , anti-European forces enjoy competitive advantage balloting . ”
• “ The first step defending Europe enemies , internal external , recognize magnitude threat present . The second awaken sleeping pro-European majority mobilize defend values E.U . founded . ”
The firm said yesterday would buy Solium Capital , manages stock paid corporate employees , $ 900 million . It ’ biggest deal major Wall Street firm since financial crisis — ’ rationale ?
The bank wants millennial wealth . Solium ’ clients include start-ups , like Instacart Stripe , could go public multibillion-dollar valuations — making employees rich .
Wall Street approves strategy . Analysts Evercore ISI wrote yesterday Solium gives Morgan Stanley “ real path towards organic growth next generation clients many investors questioning. ” Matthew Klein Barron ’ wrote last week millennials could hold key improving American productivity — wealth .
And banks seem newly hungry deals . Days Morgan Stanley ’ acquisition , BB & T agreed buy SunTrust biggest bank merger since 2008 crisis . Banking chiefs seem heartened loosened regulations sector — eager capitalize acquisitions . “ We ’ like , ” James Gorman , Morgan Stanley ’ C.E.O. , told WSJ . ( And JPMorgan Chase reportedly considered buying asset manager WisdomTree , according Bloomberg . )
It ’ eight months Mario Draghi ’ finishes nonrenewable term president European Central Bank . Choosing successor important difficult , WSJ reports :
• Investors trusted Mr. Draghi , WSJ says , navigate “ toxic mix risks Europe , Brexit trade wars . ”
• “ At least five unofficial candidates appear running replace , according European officials : two Frenchmen , two Finns German . The candidates different economic philosophies , clear front-runner . ”
• The winner might chosen balance nationalities E.U. ’ leadership , rather purely merit . The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo , chief executive Centre European Policy Studies , Brussels think tank , risks . “ It ’ systemically important job Europe , man controls show , ” said . “ It go badly wrong . ”
WSJ reporters scoured fourth-quarter results U.S. companies attempt better understand slowing China ’ economic growth .
What found : Many companies “ struggling weaker demand export manufacturers China , pulling back amid fears trade tensions worsen , ” Austen Hufford Theo Francis WSJ report . “ Retailers companies catering Chinese consumers face signs weakness among country ’ growing middle class . They buying fewer cars , phones traveling less . ”
The conclusion : “ The indications slowing growth broad , still modest , ” Mr. Hufford Mr. Francis write .
Just half PG & E ’ directors stand re-election year utility filed bankruptcy amid California wildfires .
Colgate-Palmolive named Noel Wallace , C.O.O. , chief executive , replacing Ian Cook .
GV , venture capital arm Alphabet , hired David Schenkein , former C.E.O . Agios Pharmaceuticals , co-head life sciences .
Apple named Frank Casanova , longtime iPhone executive , first head marketing augmented reality .
Sony appointed Jim Ryan C.E.O . PlayStation business .
Deals
• Colony Capital , investment firm founded real estate mogul Tom Barrack , explore selling assets activist hedge fund , Blackwells Capital , took stake . ( Colony )
• SoftBank ’ Vision Fund led $ 940 million investment Nuro , driverless delivery start-up . ( FT )
• Amazon agreed buy Eero , makes wireless routers , advance smart-home ambitions . ( Reuters )
• Peloton , makes video-streaming stationary bikes treadmills , reportedly interviewing banks prepare I.P.O . ( WSJ )
• DoorDash , delivery start-up , reportedly process raising $ 500 million $ 6 billion valuation . ( WSJ )
• Reddit raised $ 150 million Tencent — users fear censorship . ( Verge )
Politics policy
• President Trump Gov . Andrew Cuomo New York meet today discuss revising cap deductions state local taxes . ( Bloomberg )
• Democratic presidential contenders see small donors , rather traditional wealthy backers , test viability 2020 race . ( WaPo )
• Contrary popular belief , Mr. Trump ’ presidency hurt America ’ gun lobby . ( NYT editorial )
Trade
• President Trump reportedly eager meet President Xi Jinping China discuss trade deal . ( Bloomberg )
• American tariffs Chinese goods reduced two countries ’ trade imbalance — without helping U.S. companies . ( Axios )
• Chinese investments Israeli tech companies raising security concerns . ( WSJ )
Tech
• What ’ like contractor one Apple ’ less glamorous offices ? Not much fun . ( Bloomberg )
• Mars One Ventures , promised one-way trips red planet , bankrupt . ( Verge )
• If New York ’ want new Amazon campus , Newark . ( Bloomberg )
• Alphabet Microsoft discreetly warning A.I . could harm brands . ( Wired )
The Jeff Bezos saga
• The American Media Inc. lawyer reportedly sought deal Mr. Bezos ’ private photos Amazon Kindle executive . ( WSJ )
• American Media reportedly asked Justice Department whether needed register foreign agent ties Saudi Arabia . ( WSJ )
• The WaPo found tricky situation : reporting owner ’ fight The National Enquirer , cause battle . ( NYT )
Best rest
• Could leveraged loans sink U.S. economy ? ( FT )
• For two years , Goldman Sachs bet companies strong balance sheets . Not anymore . ( CNBC )
• The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says ’ “ mania ” share buybacks , ’ worried social consequences . ( CNBC )
• Toys ‘ R ’ Us planning comeback later year . ( NYT )
• Is corporate America headed toward earnings recession ? ( DealBook )
Thanks reading ! We ’ see tomorrow .
We ’ love feedback . Please email thoughts suggestions business @ nytimes.com .
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
China ’ opening-up policies led improvements life business .

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role post ’ creation .
Advertisement
Supported
New Zealand ’ prime minister moved swiftly ban weapons mass killing gunman attacked two mosques .
By The Editorial Board
The editorial board represents opinions board , editor publisher . It separate newsroom Op-Ed section .
The murder 50 Muslim worshipers New Zealand , allegedly 28-year-old Australian white supremacist , long scrutinized way violent hatreds spawned staged social media internet . But world learn way Jacinda Ardern , New Zealand ’ prime minister , responded horror .
Almost immediately last Friday ’ killings , Ms. Ardern listened constituents ’ outrage declared within days government would introduce new controls military-style weapons Christchurch shooter many mass killers United States used rampages . And delivered .
On Thursday , Ms. Ardern announced ban military-style semiautomatic automatic weapons , parts used turn rifles weapons high-capacity ammunition magazines . “ It ’ us , ” said , “ ’ national interest ’ safety . ”
Earlier week , told Parliament social media sites must address ease internet used spew hate images violence . “ We simply sit back accept platforms exist said responsibility place published , ” said . “ It case profit , responsibility . ”
Ms. Ardern ’ propose immediate measures limit reach Facebook , Twitter internet publishers , ’ obvious could done without trampling freedom speech . But made clear believed social media platforms , like gun manufacturers dealers , bore responsibility carnage visited Christchurch many communities recent years .
The new gun proposal require considerable fine-tuning defining becomes law . New Zealand ’ existing laws relatively lenient , large percentage estimated 1.2 million 1.5 million firearms owned 250,000 people registered . It known many become illegal new laws .
But display one deranged man weapons designed combat seemed persuade majority New Zealanders , strong majority Parliament , need ban rapid-firing weapons .
That attitude stood stark contrast way National Rifle Association political allies United States resisted restrictions weapons like AR-15 , semiautomatic rifle used several mass killings .
In New Zealand , took one mass shooting awaken government . In United States , even string mass killings — 26 dead school Newtown , Conn. ; 49 nightclub Orlando ; 58 concert Las Vegas ; 17 school Parkland , Fla. — enough . Nor fact 73 percent Americans say needs done curb gun violence , according recent polling .
The ban terrorists ’ weapon choice one areas Ms. Ardern showed leadership looks like time crisis . In lieu trite messages , donned black head scarf led group politicians visit victims ’ families ; speaking without script school victims attended , urged pupils “ let New Zealand place tolerance racism . Ever. ” She told grieving families , “ We know grief , walk every stage . ”
And striking gesture , refused utter name suspected killer . “ He may sought notoriety , New Zealand give nothing , ” said . “ Not even name . ”
After atrocity , world ’ leaders unite clearly condemning racism , sharing grief victims stripping haters weapons . Ms. Ardern shown way .
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram .
Advertisement
China Daily
Advertisement
Share
Get 3D view China ’ government plans 2019 .

The news editorial staffs The New York Times role post ’ creation .
Advertisement
Supported
The journalist Maria Ressa facing criminal charges social media threats .
By Kara Swisher
Ms. Swisher covers technology contributing opinion writer .
Harassing journalists one Rodrigo Duterte ’ specialties . Mr. Duterte , strongman president Philippines , going Maria Ressa , former CNN reporter founder online news site Rappler , two years . The campaign combines criminal charges Facebook smears intended tarnish reputation spread lies work .
Last week , Ms. Ressa spent night jail charge “ cyberlibel ” 2012 article Rappler published allegations corrupt ties businessman judge .
When spoke Skype Thursday attempts silence , said , “ I adjust normal , even nothing normal this. ” She added , “ It scare , meant scare everyone else . ”
Technically , spent night conference room , rather cell — National Bureau Investigation agents trying “ nice , ” told .
It perhaps small gracious act relentless assault Ms. Ressa Rappler .
[ Kara Swisher answered questions Twitter . ]
Rappler President Duterte ’ brutal regime , publishing articles extrajudicial killings human rights abuses . In mid-2017 , State Union speech , president struck back criticizing Rappler owned Americans ( investors indeed United States ) . He attempted get license revoked . Ms. Ressa charged tax evasion . Then arrest cyberlibel , considered criminal act .
While seemed tired legal roadblocks , undaunted even funny spoke . “ I think I paid bail Imelda Marcos , ” said , referring shoe-loving wife longtime ruler Philippines went ignominy .
It morning Manila , journalism . Instead , adding security Rappler ’ offices protect 100 employees forking money pay lawyers . Legal fees already account quarter operating budget , said .
She also contending relentless manipulation social media says government-friendly sources spread false information Rappler . These trolls focus Facebook , Filipinos get news . She called foreign agent , troublemaker , tax cheat , traitor ugly .
Last week , two people Ms. Ressa suspects working government managed slip Rappler ’ building broadcast video Facebook Live outside door urging protests social media attacks . Among comments feed : “ Hang Ressa , ” “ Bomb Ressa ” “ Behead . ”
Government officials said “ enjoying ” attention . She , Ms. Ressa reported video Facebook . She already provided company copious evidence way platform abused Mr. Duterte ’ troll army . This time Facebook responded blocking user posted video 30 days ( may popped Facebook Singapore , though ) .
It ’ cat-and-mouse game , Ms. Ressa said Facebook haphazard enforcing rules . While individual executives helpful , Ms. Ressa said , ’ hard time dealing Facebook , responded slowly .
“ Facebook world ’ largest distributor news yet refused gatekeeper , ” told recent onstage interview . “ And , allow lies actually get playing field facts , taints entire public sphere. ” At point , said , Facebook “ take lies . ”
As noted Thursday night , “ A lie told million times truth. ” On social media , though , like billion times .
Ms. Ressa said wished tried stop online abuse sooner : “ We ignored far long lesson I learned . ”
She said would continue try work Facebook social media outlets . “ Looking social media feed impossible , since I ’ defend I watch reputation dragged , ” said . Lately , Ms. Ressa said , attacks Twitter worsened . And I weirdly pummeled platform users calling Ms. Ressa con artist since I posted I speaking .
To try deal , Ms. Ressa said , thinks lot Reinhold Niebuhr ’ Serenity Prayer . “ I look stuff area control , like making sure staff safe business able continue , ” said , weary sigh . “ I ’ want story . ”
The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram , sign Opinion Today newsletter .
Kara Swisher , editor large technology news website Recode producer Recode Decode podcast Code Conference , contributing opinion writer . @ karaswisher • Facebook
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Charlotte Graham-McLay
WELLINGTON , New Zealand — In New Zealand , members public accustomed seeing top government officials grocery store street , unencumbered security guards common parts world .
The country ’ prime minister , Jacinda Ardern , even jokingly recounted Stephen Colbert “ The Late Show ” approached chatty strangers shopped maternity bras .
But Thursday morning , government minister attacked walking work alone capital city , leading Ms. Ardern warn New Zealanders ’ unusual level access country ’ lawmakers taken granted .
“ We environment New Zealand politicians accessible , ’ something feel proud , ” Ms Ardern said . “ We , , serve people . But today ’ events really show take granted . ”
The victim , James Shaw , 45 , co-leader left-leaning Green Party minister climate change , told police grabbed hit Thursday morning attack , leaving black eye cuts face . After treated scene , went attend meeting Parliament admitting examination hospital , remained Thursday afternoon .
Pete Huggins , Green Party spokesman , said Mr. Shaw told police assailant knew name , although officers said whether believe attack planned , motivated .
The episode rattled New Zealand , Mr. Huggins described “ close-knit community open society . ”
Unlike many countries , including United States Britain , prime minister lawmaker accompanied round-the-clock security personnel ; government ministers lawmakers . Residents Wellington , New Zealand ’ capital , regularly see elected officials walking cycling streets alone , politicians opt take public transportation rather using government vehicles .
“ I would hate see go , ” Marama Davidson , lawmaker leads Green Party Mr. Shaw , said news conference Thursday .
“ It would shame lose way people approach us access us country , ” added . “ That ’ one things I value way politics New Zealand . ”
The police arrested charged 47-year-old man attack Mr. Shaw . The man , police identify , appear Wellington District Court Friday .
Lawmakers across political spectrum joined condemning attack . Wellington ’ mayor , Justin Lester , wrote social media assailant ’ behavior “ outrageous ” New Zealanders “ lucky unparalleled access ” elected representatives .
Members public also expressed shock . One Twitter user branded attack Mr. Shaw “ assault democracy. ” Another said hoped attack “ awful one canary coal mine moment ” New Zealand .
Bryce Edwards , veteran New Zealand political commentator , said down-to-earth qualities commanded respect New Zealanders . “ We like politicians ‘ one us ’ ‘ us , ’ ” said .
While clear whether attack politically motivated , lawmakers took opportunity denounce said trend toward over-the-top reactions people disagreed politicians .
David Parker , trade minister lawmaker center-left Labour Party , cited called “ extreme opinion feeding political biases causing instability people ” “ fed social media platforms . ”
Ms. Ardern stopped short saying security beefed lawmakers . The episode took place inner-city area Wellington , minutes Ms. Ardern ’ residence .
Violence New Zealand lawmakers rare . The last one make global headlines recent years 2016 , government minister , Steven Joyce , hit face sex toy thrown protester , episode caused mirth fury .


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur
SHANGHAI — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei preparing sue United States government barring federal agencies using company ’ products , according two people familiar matter .
The lawsuit filed Eastern District Texas , Huawei American headquarters , according people , requested anonymity discuss confidential plans . The company plans announce suit week .
The move could aimed forcing United States government make case Chinese equipment maker publicly . It part broad push Huawei defend campaign led United States undermine company , Washington sees security threat . Executives spoken strongly America ’ actions , new marketing campaigns aimed mending company ’ image among consumers .
For many years , United States officials said Beijing could use Huawei ’ telecommunication equipment spy disrupt communication networks . The company denied allegations , major wireless carriers AT & T Verizon effectively prevented using Huawei ’ equipment result .
Over past year , Washington ramped pressure firm , preparing take major role construction next-generation wireless networks around world . American officials urged governments ban use Huawei ’ products . This year , Justice Department filed criminal charges company chief financial officer connection evading American sanctions Iran .
A hearing set begin week Canada determine whether company ’ finance chief , Meng Wanzhou , extradited United States face charges . Ms. Meng ’ lawyers sued Canadian government police , arguing circumstances arrest detention December violated rights .
[ Many Canadians see Ms. Meng ’ case example foreign money ’ influence Vancouver . ]
The criminal case Ms. Meng United States could complicated comments President Trump White House engaged trade negotiations China . While criminal cases traditionally independent matters , Mr. Trump indicated Huawei ’ fate could bargaining chip .
During meeting Oval Office delegation Chinese officials last month , Mr. Trump said , “ We ’ making decision , ” asked would drop criminal charges Huawei part trade deal . He added , “ We ’ talking attorney general . ”
A lawsuit Huawei United States expected challenge section defense spending authorization law approved last year . The provision blocks executive agencies using telecom equipment made Huawei another Chinese company , ZTE .
According one people familiar matter , Huawei likely argue provision “ bill attainder , ” legislative act singles person group punishment without trial . The Constitution forbids Congress pass bills .
Huawei ’ plans final . It could still decide change course , file lawsuit .
The United States Embassy Beijing immediately respond request comment . A call placed outside business hours United States Court House Plano , Tex. , Huawei ’ American headquarters , answered .
[ China announced espionage accusations former Canadian diplomat Monday , days Ms. Meng ’ extradition hearing set take place . ]
In many ways , Huawei case echoes another company aroused security concerns United States : Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab .
Around two years ago , American officials began expressing worries Moscow could use company ’ software gather intelligence . The company denied allegations . But September 2017 , Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies begin removing company ’ products government systems . Congress codified ban spending law .
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits response , arguing prohibition amounted bill attainder . In May , judge District Columbia dismissed suits , ruling Congress motivated legitimate desire protect government computer networks Russian intrusion . The judge also said Kaspersky ’ sales American government small fraction company ’ business ban especially harsh .
An appeals court upheld ruling months later . Banning Kaspersky “ prophylactic , punitive , ” measure , judge appeal , David S. Tatel , wrote .
“ Given insignificant probability Kaspersky ’ products could compromised federal systems magnitude harm intrusion could wrought , Congress ’ decision remove Kaspersky federal networks represents reasonable balanced response , ” Judge Tatel wrote .
Raymond Zhong reported Shanghai , Paul Mozur Hong Kong . Alan Rappeport contributed reporting Washington .
Follow Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur Twitter : @ zhonggg @ paulmozur .




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Azam Ahmed Kirk Semple
MEXICO CITY — Mexican officials carrying Trump administration ’ immigration agenda across wide stretches border , undercutting Mexican government ’ promises defend migrants support search better life .
The Mexican authorities blocking groups migrants border towns , refusing allow onto international bridges apply asylum United States , intercepting unaccompanied minors reach American soil , helping manage lists asylum seekers behalf American authorities limit number people crossing border .
Breaking decades asylum practice , Mexican government also allowed Trump administration send 120 men , women children Tijuana await decisions asylum applications United States . The program could expanded border crossings soon next week .
Officials inside administration Mexico ’ new president , Andrés Manuel López Obrador , called stance migrants strategic decision anger President Trump .
He ’ believe change Mr. Trump ’ mind , contend . Furthermore , officials say , Mr. López Obrador wanted jeopardize aspects deeply interconnected relationship two countries , ranging elaborate regional trading arrangements information sharing border security , transnational crime terrorism . So avoided bruising potentially costly public fight issue .
A lifelong defender poor , Mr. López Obrador often refers plans Mexico grand transformation , placing ambitions nation par great leaders .
He burnished everyman credentials cutting government salaries , flying coach around country opening opulent presidential palace public . He also vastly reduced number Central American migrants Mexico deports soil .
But everything transformed .
Exhibit A Migrant Protection Protocols , Trump administration ’ policy require asylum seekers remain Mexican side border await decisions fate . Rights groups contend dumps migrants increasingly violent Mexico impairs access legal counsel family support United States .
Mr. López Obrador ’ administration , came office saying would cooperate Mr. Trump ’ anti-immigration agenda , gone along several fronts , including accepting women children despite earlier promises take adult male asylum seekers .
The Mexican government argued policy requiring asylum seekers wait Mexico imposed United States consented humanitarian reasons .
It also true Mr. López Obrador , giving Mr. Trump ’ border demands rarely saying word American president daily press briefings carries little political cost home .
[ Read latest edition Crossing Border , limited-run newsletter life United States Mexico meet . Sign receive next issue inbox . ]
To many Mexicans , fate migrants secondary domestic concerns jobs , security corruption . Mr. López Obrador retains 80 percent approval rating , despite government ’ willingness take back migrants applying asylum United States .
“ If accept handful people back Mexico , ’ really problem us , even politically , ” said one official authorized discuss internal deliberations . “ What really want avoid public fight Trump . ”
But effort avoid cross-border fight , Mexican government chosen politics humanitarian ideals , critics contend .
“ Mexico continuing play role U.S. thinks , contain migrant influx , period , ” said Melissa Vertiz Hernández , coordinates Working Group Immigration Policy , network civil society rights groups Mexico .
The delicate balance United States left Mexican government without clear , consistent immigration policy , Mexican states municipalities along border often position fending pressure American counterparts .
In Mexican border city Reynosa , instance , almost one allowed cross bridge apply asylum neighboring McAllen , Texas . They typically blocked apprehended Mexican officials , forcing migrants try luck towns .
In city Piedras Negras , officials rounded hundreds migrants arrived caravan recent weeks kept tight watch shelter limited access outsiders , advocates say . After public outcry , center closed many bused cities towns along border .
The mayor Ciudad Juárez , meanwhile , threatened sue neighboring governor shipping migrants town . It become game political hot potato , desperate Central Americans fleeing poverty violence caught middle .
Elsewhere along border , shelter officials say manage lists asylum applicants name , nationality , age documentation assist Mexican officials complying American border patrol mandates .
The Mexican government resisting Mr. Trump ways , official Mr. López Obrador ’ government insisted . Even acquiescing Trump administration Migrant Protection Protocols done strategically , according official two others briefed plan .
By allowing program start San Diego Tijuana , Mexican officials argued , legal challenges United States go federal courts Northern District California , generally seen liberal . This matters time many Americans focused beat Mr. Trump 2020 elections , particular leveraging Mexican-American vote .
But many activists far confident legal challenge put end program .
“ I think ’ incredibly risky move , ” said Stephanie Leutert , director Mexico Security Initiative University Texas Austin . “ I ’ think put country ’ foreign migratory policy hands civil society organization another country . ”
On Feb. 14 , civil society organization , American Civil Liberties Union , several advocacy groups filed lawsuit challenging Trump administration ’ policy . A decision temporary restraining order expected coming days .
The lawsuit , filed behalf 11 asylum seekers returned Mexico recent weeks , accuses Trump administration violating federal international migration human rights laws .
Advocates contend forcibly sending asylum seekers Tijuana , Trump administration plunged unfamiliar dangerous environment lives may jeopardy .
Killings Tijuana skyrocketed recent years turf war local drug market . In 2018 , city posted deadliest year record , 2,500 killings .
The Trump administration first announced new policy December , Jan. 28 head Mexico ’ migration agency said Mexican government imposed restrictions enactment .
But Mexican officials backed many initial restrictions , including refusal accept women children . Trump administration officials said plan expand program ports entry along border . The López Obrador administration said little publicly changes .
In Tijuana , several returnees — three single men , single woman , two mothers traveling three children — described confusion dismay finding Mexico .
“ I idea I ’ going survive , ” said Yanira , 34-year-old migrant El Salvador feared pursued people said fleeing home country .
Yanira said left El Salvador three children — ages 8 , 11 12 — local gang tried recruit middle child threatened violence unless agreed .
When stepped onto Mexican soil led back across border American officials , broke .
“ I cried cried , ” recalled .
Mexican officials said provide shelter care returnees , essentially leaving network community groups Tijuana elsewhere state Baja California .
But shelter network extraordinary pressure almost-continual arrival migrants traveling caravans , pushed centers beyond capacity .
Sister Salomé Limas , social worker Instituto Madre Asunta migrant shelter Tijuana , said currently housing 120 women children — space designed 44 .
Among migrants several families seeking asylum United States returned recent weeks Trump policy .
Sister Salomé said shelter house families first court date United States , late March . After , sure .
“ What ’ going happen ? ” said . “ We ’ know . ”
Paulina Villegas contributed reporting Mexico City .
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Good Monday . ( Want email ? Sign . )
In wake two fatal crashes involving 737 Max 8 airplane shared similarities , Boeing finds prosecutors regulators inspecting development processes safety assessments .
• A grand jury Washington , D.C. , issued subpoena dated March 11 — day Ethiopian Airlines crash — seeking documents least one person involved development 737 Max jets , WSJ reports .
• The Transportation Department inspector general ’ office also reportedly examining plane ’ design certification second deadly crash .
• An investigation The Seattle Times found F.A.A . delegated wide responsibility 737 Max safety assessment Boeing . The resulting analysis included “ crucial flaws , ” according investigation .
• And Bloomberg reports early seven years ago , F.A.A . employees warned Boeing “ much sway safety approvals new aircraft . ”
Boeing said statement Sunday “ aircraft certification processes well established consistently produced safe aircraft designs. ” It added “ 737 Max certification program followed F.A.A. ’ standard certification process . ”
The ride-hailing company start road show I.P.O . today New York City . It ’ short ambition : Lyft hopes achieve valuation much $ 23 billion .
In updated prospectus , Lyft said hopes raise nearly $ 2.4 billion I.P.O . That figure close $ 2.16 billion revenue generated last year .
At high end proposed stock price , $ 68 , company would valued $ 23 billion . That would make stakes held company ’ founders , Logan Green John Zimmer , worth hundreds millions dollars apiece . The company expected price offering March 28 , would trade Nasdaq next day .
Lyft poised become one biggest market debuts tech company since Alibaba Group ’ I.P.O . 2014 . ( Until Uber goes public later year , least . )
But I.P.O . without controversy . It ’ facing backlash investors ’ happy dual-class stock structure . Paul Singer , head activist hedge fund Elliott Management , one , writing FT op-ed :
“ Those insight daring found business deserve respect . But sell vast majority company public , allowed run forever without shareholder input . Public ownership must mean public accountability . ”
The two German lenders announced yesterday formally begin merger talks . Now must convince critics combining good thing .
Deutsche Bank said reviewing “ strategic options ” shoring profitability growth . Christian Sewing , firm ’ C.E.O. , told employees , “ I consistently stressed consolidation German European banking sector important topic us . ”
The combined bank would one Europe ’ biggest , $ 2 trillion assets one-fifth private customers Germany .
Going public signals deal political backing . Germany ’ finance minister argued country needs strong national champion compete foreign banks . ( Here FT ’ list key decision-makers deal . )
But opposition merger strong . German unions criticized plan , fearing tens thousands job cuts . And Elisa Martinuzzi Bloomberg Opinion warns ’ fix bigger problems German banking system .
The Trump administration ’ campaign prevent countries using Huawei equipment 5G wireless networks faltered , Julian E. Barnes Adam Satariano NYT write .
American officials pressuring threatening nations shun Huawei . The push rooted U.S. concerns Chinese telecom companies significant security threat , could help Beijing spy nations .
But ’ really working . Britain , Germany , India United Arab Emirates signaled unlikely follow America ’ lead .
The U.S. campaign criticized lack evidence . American intelligence briefings reportedly failed clearly show Chinese government used Huawei steal information . ( Read five experts two senators say whether threat . ) Some European Asian officials also believe President Trump may fully support fight .
American officials want find ways curb Huawei ’ rise , Mr. Barnes Mr. Satariano write , “ including possibly restricting American companies supplying Huawei key components needs build 5G networks across world . ”
More : Huawei built operating system smartphones computers , used company longer use software developed Google Microsoft .
The financial sector ’ felt impact # MeToo much industries . But David Gelles NYT reports , lawsuit asset manager TCW could change .
• Sara Tirschwell , created distressed-debt fund TCW fired 2017 , sued firm ; former boss , Jess Ravich ; C.E.O. , David Lippman . She claimed dismissal retaliation reporting sexual harassment claim Mr. Ravich , gender discrimination breach contract .
• Ms. Tirschwell alleges Mr. Ravich pressured sex several times tenure firm . The first encounter made feel , according lawsuit , “ rejection would mean end Ravich ’ crucial support . ”
• TCW , Mr. Ravich Mr. Lippman denied allegations . “ I Sara ’ biggest supporter TCW role decision fire , ” Mr. Ravich said .
• So far , ’ talk settlement . Mr. Gelles writes , “ Days court rare movement — rarer still Wall Street , grievances typically dealt private , wire transfer , dealt . ”
Despite delivering disappointing returns investors , many C.E.O.s saw compensation climb last year , according WSJ .
• “ Median compensation 132 chief executives S & P 500 companies reached $ 12.4 million 2018 , $ 11.7 million group 2017 , ” WSJ calculates .
• “ Most C.E.O.s received substantial raises — median 6.4 percent — even though December stock-market swoon meant companies finished year posting sluggish shareholder returns . ”
• “ Markets pretty well , companies well , economy held , ” Robin Ferracone , executive-pay consultant , told WSJ .
• But also said boards may thinking forward economic slowdown , adding , “ They know ’ going bring bloom ’ rose . ”
The shooting mosque Christchurch , New Zealand , designed go viral internet . What ?
“ The attack teased Twitter , announced online message board 8chan broadcast live Facebook , ” Kevin Roose NYT writes . “ The footage replayed endlessly YouTube , Twitter Reddit , platforms scrambled take clips nearly fast new copies popped replace . ”
“ Online extremism regular extremism steroids . There offline equivalent experience algorithmically nudged toward strident version existing beliefs , ” Mr. Roose adds . “ People become fluent culture online extremism , make consume edgy memes , cluster harden . And , one erupts . ”
But telling terrorists trolls ’ easy tech companies , Christopher Mims WSJ argues . Knowing online extremists erupt act violence virtually impossible , broadcasts sudden acts violence hard automatically block .
More needs done . “ We need understand address poisonous pipeline extremism emerged past several years , whose ultimate effects impossible quantify clearly far big ignore , ” Mr. Roose writes . “ It ’ going away , ’ particularly getting better . ”
PG & E reportedly close naming Bill Johnson , outgoing head Tennessee Valley Authority , next C.E.O .
Google named Scott Beaumont , head greater China Korea operations , chief Asia-Pacific team .
Stuart Benson resigned C.F.O . MoviePass .
Princeville Capital , venture capital firm invests climate technology , recruited Leonardo DiCaprio adviser .
Deals
• Fidelity National Information Services agreed buy international payments processor , Worldpay , $ 34 billion . ( The companies )
• Caesars Entertainment Eldorado Resorts reportedly early merger talks . ( Reuters )
• Private equity firms like KKR CVC Capital Partners reportedly interested buying Bayer ’ animal-health division . ( Bloomberg )
• PagerDuty , popular start-up alerts I.T . workers tech problems need fixing , publicly filed I.P.O . ( Business Insider )
Politics policy
• Investors eagerly await Treasury Department ’ rules investing tax-advantaged opportunity zones . ( NYT )
• Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro monologue questioning Muslim lawmaker ’ loyalty U.S. — President Trump unhappy move . ( NYT )
• Cindy Yang , former owner massage parlor busted prostitution ring , come scrutiny political activities , including donations president ’ re-election campaign . ( NYT )
Brexit
• Prime Minister Theresa May expected put Brexit deal third parliamentary vote week , likely contingent gaining backing Democratic Unionist Party . ( FT )
• Meanwhile , Labour Party appears set support plan would seek public vote Mrs. May ’ deal approved lawmakers . ( Reuters )
Trade
• The U.S. China pushing meeting late April complete trade deal , negotiators still grappling details . ( NYT )
• The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska sued U.S. Treasury Department sanctions placed last year . ( CNBC )
• President Xi Jinping China starts series state visits Europe week bid bolster trade continent . ( Bloomberg )
Tech
• Marc Andreessen , Facebook board member , reportedly met Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Chris Wylie 2016 . If true , would suggest understood extent company ’ harvesting Facebook data . He denies claim . ( Observer , Business Insider )
• In related news , academic behind Cambridge Analytica ’ data mining sued Facebook defamation . ( NYT )
• Apple making billion-dollar bet take Netflix . Will work ? ( NYT )
• Tech investors including # MeToo clauses start-up deals . ( FT )
• Breaking tech giants suddenly become populist concept — San Francisco . ( NYT , Bloomberg )
Best rest
• In wake admissions scandal , colleges rethinking athletic special admissions . ( WSJ )
• The Fed likely say later week little appetite interest rate rises year . ( WSJ )
• Why successful joint ventures turn sour ? It ’ often success breeds desire control venture sought avoid . ( Economist )
• The European Central Bank unhappy E.U. ’ plans increasing supervision clearing houses . ( FT )
Thanks reading ! We ’ see tomorrow .
We ’ love feedback . Please email thoughts suggestions business @ nytimes.com .
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Andrew Higgins Mujib Mashal
MOSCOW — Thirty years last Soviet troops retreated Afghanistan , Russia Tuesday reasserted player region , hosting talks Taliban senior Afghan politicians aimed speeding exit another superpower — time United States .
The talks , held Moscow ’ President Hotel , owned Kremlin , offered clearer view Taliban see end 18-year war . In room dripping chandeliers , 50 delegates — many flowing robes , Western suits ties , nearly old sometimes violent rivals — faced across large , circular conference table .
While Afghan politicians , part delegation led former President Hamid Karzai , spoke protecting hard gains past two decades , Taliban denounced new Afghan Constitution lays system governance built enormous cost .
The Taliban representatives also offered rare look see role women . While barred women public life time power , said believed women ’ rights , including education work — claim met skepticism women Afghanistan .
The Moscow gathering , included Taliban delegation led chief negotiator , Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai , represented significant contact senior Afghan politicians Taliban since United States toppled hard-line Islamist group power end 2001 .
Absent talks , however , American-backed Afghan government President Ashraf Ghani , strongly criticized meeting affront designed undermine office ’ authority Afghan state .
Mr. Ghani uncomfortable position , odds American backers , sees moving quickly reach deal , also others country ’ political elite rallying around American-led effort .
“ What agreeing , ? Where implementing power ? ” Mr. Ghani told Afghan channel ToloNews Tuesday , dismissing talks . “ They could hold hundred meetings , Afghan government , Afghan Parliament , legal institutions Afghanistan approve , agreements paper . ”
The delegation headed Mr. Karzai consisted entirely former officials , representatives political parties — many involved country ’ bloody civil war — current members Parliament . There two women group .
Afghans social media critical delegation , questioning whether represented Afghanistan .
“ Those meeting Moscow , pushed aside , ” said Khaled Abedy , 31 , works private company Kabul , Afghan capital . “ They want build business . The country ’ important . I think sort meeting ’ help peace process . ”
But Atta Muhammad Noor , one Afghan politicians delegation Moscow , said participants considered representative Afghanistan Mr. Ghani ’ government .
“ We fighting 40 years , people influence , Ghani , ” said Mr. Noor , longtime governor Balkh Province Mr. Ghani dismissed last year .
Speaking sidelines event , said foreign forces , including around 14,000 American troops , must leave Afghanistan . But cautioned withdrawn gradually , avoid repeat chaos engulfed Afghanistan abrupt Soviet pullout 1989 .
The talks , scheduled last two days , opened week American diplomats Taliban representatives ended six days negotiations Doha , capital Qatar . Each side said negotiations made progress toward ending conflict began United States invaded Afghanistan 2001 , long terror attacks Sept. 11 .
Both sides said agreed , principle , framework two issues : Taliban guarantee Afghan soil would never used terrorist groups like Al Qaeda , pledge United States withdraw troops . But many Afghans concerned Americans might eager strike deal .
The organizer Moscow talks ostensibly Afghan diaspora Russia , Russian government . But Afghan officials Taliban members said Kremlin playing major role orchestrating meeting behind scenes .
Russia , chastened damage done Soviet Union occupation Afghanistan , shown interest getting involved militarily , least directly . But positioned force reckoned , relishing Washington ’ agonies hands Taliban insurgents .
Russia designated Taliban terrorist organization 2003 , first strongly supported American efforts purge Afghanistan extremist Islamist groups , President Vladimir V. Putin described threat Russia ’ security .
But amid rising Cold War-style rivalry Moscow Washington , Russia hedged bets opening channels Taliban . Moscow allowed 10-member delegation Taliban , still officially barred terrorists , enter Russia Moscow talks .
On Tuesday Afghanistan , violence continued unabated . The Taliban attacked police army outposts around northern city Kunduz dawn , killing least 23 members Afghan security forces . In Takhar Province , gunmen attacked women ’ radio station , killing two staff members .
Mr. Karzai made appeal end bloodshed , saying Afghan soldiers Taliban fighters buried next .
“ All around graveyards regular Afghans — graves plenty , ” Mr. Karzai said . “ The dream every mother , hope every father buried . ”
Mr. Karzai first installed Afghanistan ’ leader United States late 2001 , relationship soured . He visited Russia often since leaving office 2014 , meetings Mr. Putin officials aligned Moscow ’ view United States must leave Afghanistan , Soviet Union .
Mr. Stanekzai , Taliban ’ chief negotiator , said speech lasting half hour group seek monopolize power inside Afghanistan . He said pursuing Islamist government , “ consultation Afghans , ” group recognize country ’ current Constitution , calling copied West .
Perhaps revealing part speech came described Taliban ’ view future role Afghan women . When power , group sent religious police patrol streets , giving lashes women , among things , showing ankles .
“ We committed rights given women Islam , ” Mr. Stanekzai said . “ Islam given women fundamental rights — trade , ownership , inheritance , education , work choice partner , security education , good life . ”
Considering group ’ history , Afghan women immediately questioned statement ’ sincerity .
But Fawzia Koofi , female member Afghan Parliament one two women attendance , said happy heard Taliban promise women would stripped rights would allowed serve prime minister — though president .
However , cautioned , “ We gained much last 18 years , whatever problems , want go back Taliban period . ”
Andrew Higgins reported Moscow , Mujib Mashal Kabul , Afghanistan . Najim Rahim contributed reporting Mazar-i-Sharif , Afghanistan ; Fahim Abed Fatima Faizi Kabul ; Taimoor Shah Kandahar , Afghanistan .




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Christine Hauser
It like online matchmaking service . Horse lovers want adopt wild mustang western United States browse dozens headshots .
From drop-down menus , choose gender , color age : 4-year-old chestnut mare , example , 9-year-old gray gelding . Some horses training , others might “ gentled , ” experience handled .
This Wild Horses Online , part federal Bureau Land Management ’ online adoption service . Starting month , bureau trying make wild mustang adoptions attractive paying $ 1,000 take animals , gathered public land western United States part efforts manage population .
The adoption program , began March 12 , intended encourage potential owners take leap adopting wild horses , whose access pasture water challenged factors including rising population droughts , said Deborah Collins , bureau ’ outreach officer .
Ms. Collins said government hoped people would “ take fresh look ” owning wild horse say : “ I got little help . I go find trainer . ”
The program first incentive type Bureau Land Management offered since Wild Free-Roaming Horses Burros Act 1971 detailed agency ’ duties legal custodian wild horses burros United States .
Previously , people adopted wild mustang paying $ 125 . Now , paid $ 500 front receive $ 500 balance prove owned animal responsibly year , Ms. Collins said .
Carrie Jim Pacileo Powell , Wyo. , drove six hours March 15 adoption event Rock Springs . The couple already adopted two mustangs , one completely trained partly trained , wanted .
“ I told husband I wanted try train completely wild , ” Ms. Pacileo said .
They came home two mustangs : 9-month-old Remmi 11-month-old Stormy .
“ Being younger , thought maybe would easier , ” Ms. Pacileo said .
She said money receive adopting horses would invested equipment hay production 40 acres .
“ I wanted , like ultimate symbol America , ” said .
More 66,000 wild horses 15,000 burros roam 26 million acres 10 states , bureau ’ latest data shows . The ideal level populations combined 26,690 , according bureau .
The challenge bureau balance population animals available resources public private lands . Some found rambling along highways foraging backyards , discovered open range , emaciated dying thirst , Ms. Collins said .
The main method population control simply move . From July February , helicopters chase wild horses corrals facilities made available adoption , sold adopted .
Last year , 11,000 horses burros removed public lands , nearly decade , bureau figures show . As last month , 50,000 horses available adoption corrals off-range pastures long-term , Ms. Collins said .
Some bureau ’ measures attracted controversy use helicopters chase animals removal horses open range primary method population control . Some worried wild horses could end slaughterhouses abroad .
The American Wild Horse Campaign , advocacy group , said statement criticizing bureaus ’ new adoption program agency employ population control measures , fertility methods . “ The B.L.M . adopt way situation faces stockpiling 50,000 horses holding facilities , ” said Suzanne Roy , group ’ executive director .
Ms. Collins said bureau tried fertility measures , including sending volunteers administer birth control vaccinations mares wild . But effects vaccinations last year 18 months , results adequately addressed overpopulation , said .
The bureau ’ push make adoptions enticing focused training . The agency working nonprofit Mustang Heritage Foundation , started Extreme Mustang Makeover , national competition trainers 100 days turn wild mustang well-behaved steed .
Wild mustangs also trained federal prisons rehabilitation programs coordinated bureau .
The $ 1,000 adoption payout costs bureau half would keep animal year , Ms. Collins said . For owners , mustangs cost less keep breeds , thoroughbreds quarter horses , said Mary Santagata , adopts buys mustangs All Kings Horses , rescue organization Northford , Conn .
Adopted mustangs current vaccinations , Ms. Santagata said , annual veterinary care could cost $ 300 “ problems. ” About $ 50 every eight 10 weeks goes toward hooves professionally trimmed . Many owners feed mustangs hay , similar diet open range , rather expensive grain hay , said .
“ They hardy , ” Ms. Santagata said . “ They built survive . ”
Other costs include adapting corrals six-foot-high paneled fencing wild horses escape , providing open-sided sheds enter need shelter , easily led .
The expensive part owning wild horse , Ms. Santagata said , paying experienced trainers . At 41 , around horses life , said could handle basic “ gentling ” wild mustang . When horses corrals , uses soft opening , approaching retreating , get accustomed .
“ You walk around see reacts , ” said . “ I mustangs would look months . ”
She gradually introduces halters led around , able accomplish three months , said . For advanced skills like riding , sends mustangs professionals , grown know .
“ I look like I adopting living legend , ” Ms. Santagata said . “ They mystical creature wild , lucky ones find . ”




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Nicholas Casey
BOGOTÁ , Colombia — Jorge Ramos , news anchor television network Univision , said detained Venezuelan government confrontational interview President Nicolás Maduro Monday evening Miraflores Palace Caracas .
“ He ’ like things asking lack democracy Venezuela , torture political prisoners , ” Mr. Ramos recounted Univision broadcast , said released government .
Mr. Ramos said detained “ two hours ” let go allowed return hotel . He said government confiscated crew ’ equipment , including phones memory cards .
“ We ’ anything , ” said . “ They interviews . ”
On Monday night , Kimberly Breier , assistant secretary state Western Hemisphere State Department , said Mr. Ramos detained called government release immediately .
“ The world watching , ” wrote Twitter .
Venezuela ’ government dispute account Mr. Ramos temporarily held , appeared lay blame anchor .
“ We ’ lend cheap shows , ” said Jorge Rodríguez , government communications minister .
He added , “ Hundreds journalists come received decent treatment always give journalistic work . ”
Mr. Ramos , Mexico-born American journalist , known confrontational questions , particularly leaders attacked press . In 2015 , tangled Donald J. Trump , presidential candidate , news conference Mr. Trump eventually guards force room .
“ Go back Univision , ” Mr. Trump said .
Univision largest Spanish-language television network United States .
Mr. Maduro recently stuck friendly interviews state television outlets .
But since current crisis , faces major challenge Venezuela ’ opposition , whose leader , Juan Guaidó also claims presidency , Mr. Maduro conducted number interviews international media outlets including BBC , Eurovision ABC , also conducted interview Monday .
In ABC interview , Mr. Maduro defended criticism blocking aid shipments , opposition White House demanded let pass Venezuela ’ borders Colombia Brazil .
“ Everything United States government done doomed failure , ” Mr. Maduro said . “ They ’ trying fabricate crisis justify political escalation military intervention Venezuela bring war South America . ”
Mr. Ramos said showing images children eating dumpster Mr. Maduro , common sight Venezuela , president presided shortages food medicine .
“ He got interview , ” Mr. Ramos said . “ Immediately afterward , one ministers , Jorge Rodríguez , came say interview ’ authorized . ”
Then , Mr. Ramos said , detained .
Later Monday night , Mr. Ramos , writes column syndicated New York Times Licensing Group , told Reuters crew would deported Tuesday .


video

Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Best Late Night
By Giovanni Russonello
Welcome Best Late Night , rundown previous night ’ highlights lets sleep — lets us get paid watch comedy . If ’ interested hearing The Times regularly great TV , sign Watching newsletter get recommendations straight inbox .
Stephen Colbert admitted ’ happy see President Trump Congress apparently nearing border security deal , would help avert government shutdown . But said wished could press reset political conversation .
“ We ’ supposed care whether Trump Nancy lost , Trump caved Nancy ’ dancing end zone , ” said . “ But nothing — nothing — happened government 2019 affected anyone . Where ’ infrastructure bill ? Where ’ immigration bill ? Where ’ fix health care ? We celebrating — supposed celebrating — ’ close deal achieve absolute minimum : government ! ”
Colbert pointed reports preparations possible border wall already damaged butterfly habitats Texas . He argued Trump ought sympathy insects .
“ After , ’ got lot common butterflies . They ’ fragile creatures bright , iridescent coloring paper-thin skin . It ’ Trump never left larval stage. ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
Colbert also tweaked Democrats showed clip Representative Nita Lowey insisting lawmakers agreed fund partial “ barrier , ” “ wall . ”
“ Oh , wall , barrier ! A clinching legal argument first made landmark case Potato v. Potato. ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
Jimmy Kimmel ’ excited recent news sequel film “ Frozen ” come fall .
“ Just ‘ Baby Shark ’ song ’ finally starting get heads , ’ new batch ‘ Frozen ’ songs way . For ’ kids , ‘ Frozen ’ street-legal drug children ’ 10 times addictive ‘ Paw Patrol ’ gummy worms combined . In one , Disney finally answer question , ‘ What made bunch money ? ’ ” — JIMMY KIMMEL
Trevor Noah excited Howard Schultz ’ middle-of-the-road potential candidacy . He criticized Schultz , former chief executive Starbucks , saying CNN town hall ’ “ see race . ”
“ It would , like , ‘ How going solve black unemployment ? ’ And guy would like , ‘ What mean black unemployment ? All I see staggering unemployment among people named Jamal . Anyway , ’ February , happy History Month ! ’ ” — TREVOR NOAH
“ Tomorrow Valentine ’ Day . St. Valentine , course , patron saint seasonal marketing. ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
“ Tomorrow , Auntie Anne ’ offering special heart-shaped pretzels . It ’ great deal hopeless romantics taking dates La Guardia. ” — JIMMY FALLON
Samantha Bee went bat ambitious Green New Deal plan Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez unveiled month .
On “ Conan , ” Kay Jewelers Tinder Collection featured bejeweled inscriptions “ Please Don ’ Murder Me ” “ What ’ Your Last Name ? ”
Bradley Cooper , director star “ A Star Is Born , ” “ The Late Show ” Thursday . With Oscars 10 days away , anticipation probably hang air .
Aubrey Plaza hosting Film Independent Spirit Awards month . She ’ die-hard fan independent cinema , looking forward bringing back “ intimate vibe ” awards show televised .
Plus , Ideas What Watch Tonight :
The 50 Best Movies Netflix Right Now
The 25 Best Films 21st Century
The Best Movies Amazon Prime Video Right Now
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Declan Walsh
CAIRO — President Omar Hassan al-Bashir Sudan imposed yearlong state emergency dissolved federal state governments Friday , attempt end months nationwide street protests shaken authority three decades rule .
In televised address broadcast live presidential palace Khartoum , Mr. al-Bashir declared state emergency , disbanded federal government , replaced state governors military generals .
Mr. al-Bashir also said pausing , ending , effort amend Sudan ’ constitution could run third term office current one ends 2020 .
Reuters , citing presidential statement , reported Friday night Mr. al-Bashir appointed caretaker administration , leaving current defense , foreign justice ministers place .
In speech . acknowledged economic hardship triggered first protests December , said protest movement hijacked elements “ agendas ” achieve “ zero sum scenarios . ”
Mr. al-Bashir , wanted International Criminal Court charges war crimes , ruled Sudan iron fist decades , immediate implications state emergency unclear . It seemed signal hardening attitude toward protests , led young professionals angered economic decay corruption become hallmarks Mr. al-Bashir ’ rule .
The demonstrations first began Dec. 19 town Atbara , focused soaring bread prices . They quickly grew movement calling ouster president , near daily protests spreading cities across country .
The protesters come across Sudanese society , including sections shrinking upper middle class withered country ’ precipitous economic slide . Soaring fuel prices caused factories close , youth employment stands 27 percent , according World Bank estimates .
“ Our country passing difficult complicated phase national history , ” Mr. al-Bashir said speech Friday .
He blamed external factors collapse , protesters say stems decades kleptocratic , incompetent rule . Their frequent chant marches — riot police arrive tear gas sometimes bullets — , “ Just fall , ! ”
Protest leaders say 1,000 people arrested crackdown led feared National Intelligence Security Service . Internet access restricted effort block social media posts used mostly young protesters organize demonstrations .
The government said 31 people died protest-related violence . Human Rights Watch put toll 51 people killed since mid-December .
On Friday , Mr. al-Bashir stumbled several times read speech . In attempt mollify protesters , offered prayers killed announced plans economic reform new government , yet fully formed . He invited opposition “ move forward engage dialogue regarding current issues country . ”
In recent years , Mr. al-Bashir fired marginalized potential rivals power , little long rule suggests new willingness rapprochement .
Mr. al-Bashir came power military coup 1989 , since Sudan endured famines , American missile strikes , isolation civil war led independence South Sudan 2011 . Two years , International Criminal Court ordered Mr. al-Bashir arrested charges played “ essential role ” atrocities , including murder , rape , torture displacement civilians conflict Darfur region Sudan .
In 2017 , United States lifted sanctions Sudan , relief failed stem steep economic decline . Mr. al-Bashir lobbied State Department remove Sudan list state sponsors terrorism , factor country ’ economic woes .
Before televised address , Sudan ’ intelligence chief , Salah Abdallah Gosh , told reporters Mr. al-Bashir would announce resignation head ruling National Congress Party .
But Mr. al-Bashir said nothing speech party , activists fear state emergency could presage even harsher measures movement .
In immediate aftermath speech , however , demonstrators appeared undeterred . Videos posted social media suggested protests rule continued Khartoum .



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ceylan Yeginsu
Britain ’ chancellor Exchequer , Philip Hammond , delivered statement country ’ economy Wednesday something fiscal nonevent , specter Britain ’ withdrawal European Union , Brexit , hanging every economic projection .
Mr. Hammond ’ main message — could deliver funds public spending British Parliament reaches deal Brexit — came day lawmakers rejected Prime Minister Theresa May ’ plan large margin .
With Mrs. May sitting behind , Mr. Hammond conspicuously called lawmakers “ put aside differences seek compromise ” Brexit , something neither prime minister Labour leader , Jeremy Corbyn , yet accepted .
“ Higher unemployment , lower wages , higher prices shops . That British people voted June 2016 , ” said , referring 2016 referendum leave European Union .
Here five takeaways chancellor ’ spring statement .
The uncertainty surrounding Brexit slowdown global economy cut growth 2019 1.2 percent 1.6 percent projected last year ’ autumn budget .
The British economy set grow 1.4 percent 2020 1.6 percent following two years , according official forecasts independent Office Budget Responsibility .
One bright spot wage growth , revised upward least 3 percent year , work force expanding 600,000 2023 , Mr. Hammond said .
With public sector borrowing trending , Mr. Hammond pledged increase Brexit dividend 26.6 billion pounds , $ 35 billion , comes catch : British lawmakers would vote pronto leave European Union deal .
In statement , Office Budget Responsibility attributed improved fiscal climate higher income tax receipts lower expected interest costs .
Once , Mr. Hammond hedged good news familiar caveat : Parliament first agree deal Brexit .
A smooth Brexit see “ deal dividend , ” economic boost free resources schools , police social care , areas suffered significantly decade budget cuts conservative government ’ austerity policy .
Analysts quick point government making promises time , promised spending increases failed materialize .
“ The repeated promise austerity coming end ring hollow millions low wage , disabled unemployed people see social security tax credits frozen another year April , ” Dr. Mary-Ann Stephenson , director Women ’ Budget Group , said Wednesday .
The government fund free sanitary products secondary schools colleges England response concerns girls missing school afford buy products , Mr. Hammond said .
The announcement comes two-year campaign started Amika George , 19 , read reports schoolgirls northern city Leeds using newspaper , socks toilet paper could afford sanitary products would sometimes miss school avoid embarrassment .
“ It ’ definitely really huge number , ” Ms. George said phone interview . “ This ’ small minority people ’ affecting . It ’ definitely prevalent , ’ something government needs take action . ”
Knife crime , rose fourth straight year 2018 , hot-button issue days . To help address , additional 100 million pounds , $ 130 million , made available police forces across England Wales help tackle knife crime , risen fourth consecutive year .
Police funding England Wales fell 19 percent 2010-11 2018-19 , National Audit Office says .
The extra funding spent additional overtime targeted knife crime new violent crime reduction units , Mr. Hammond said .
The announcement falls short 200 300 million pounds , $ 260 million $ 390 million , requested National Police Chief ’ Council last week .




Advertisement
Sophisticated surveillance , domain world powers , increasingly available private market . Smaller countries seizing tools — sometimes darker purposes .
NSO , private company based Herzliya , Israel , hired former government hackers ply trades foreign governments.CreditCreditCorinna Kern The New York Times
Supported
By Mark Mazzetti , Adam Goldman , Ronen Bergman Nicole Perlroth
The man charge Saudi Arabia ’ ruthless campaign stifle dissent went searching ways spy people saw threats kingdom . He knew go : secretive Israeli company offering technology developed former intelligence operatives .
It late 2017 Saud al-Qahtani — top adviser Saudi Arabia ’ powerful crown prince — tracking Saudi dissidents around world , part extensive surveillance efforts ultimately led killing journalist Jamal Khashoggi . In messages exchanged employees company , NSO Group , Mr. al-Qahtani spoke grand plans use surveillance tools throughout Middle East Europe , like Turkey Qatar France Britain .
The Saudi government ’ reliance firm Israel , adversary decades , offers glimpse new age digital warfare governed rules growing economy , valued $ 12 billion , spies hire .
Today even smallest countries buy digital espionage services , enabling conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping influence campaigns preserve major powers like United States Russia . Corporations want scrutinize competitors ’ secrets , wealthy individual beef rival , also command intelligence operations price , akin purchasing off-the-shelf elements National Security Agency Mossad .
[ For stories changing nature warfare , sign weekly At War newsletter . ]
NSO competitor , Emirati firm DarkMatter , exemplify proliferation privatized spying . A monthslong examination The New York Times , based interviews current former hackers governments private companies others well review documents , uncovered secret skirmishes burgeoning world digital combat .
The firms enabled governments hack criminal elements like terrorist groups drug cartels also cases act darker impulses , targeting activists journalists . Hackers trained United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople human rights workers net . Cybermercenaries working DarkMatter turned prosaic household item , baby monitor , spy device .
The F.B.I . investigating current former American employees DarkMatter possible cybercrimes , according four people familiar investigation . The inquiry intensified former N.S.A . hacker working company grew concerned activities contacted F.B.I. , Reuters reported .
NSO DarkMatter also compete fiercely , paying handsomely lure top hacking talent Israel , United States countries , sometimes pilfering recruits , The Times found .
The Middle East epicenter new era privatized spying . Besides DarkMatter NSO , Black Cube , private company run former Mossad Israeli military intelligence operatives gained notoriety Harvey Weinstein , disgraced Hollywood mogul , hired dig dirt accusers . Psy-Group , Israeli company specializing social media manipulation , worked Russian oligarchs 2016 pitched Trump campaign plan build online army bots avatars swing Republican delegate votes .
Last year , wealthy American businessman , Elliott Broidy , sued government Qatar New York firm run former C.I.A . officer , Global Risk Advisors , said sophisticated breach company led thousands emails spilling public . Mr. Broidy said operation motivated hard-nosed geopolitics : At beginning Trump administration , pushed White House adopt anti-Qatar policies time firm poised receive hundreds millions dollars contracts United Arab Emirates , archrival Qatar .
A judge dismissed Mr. Broidy ’ lawsuit , suspicions grown Qatar hand operations , including hacking leaking emails Yousef al-Otaiba , influential Emirati ambassador Washington .
The rapid expansion global high-tech battleground , armies cybermercenaries clash , prompted warnings dangerous chaotic future .
“ Even smallest country , low budget , offensive capability , ” initiate online attacks adversaries , said Robert Johnston , founder cybersecurity firm Adlumin key investigator Russia ’ 2016 hacking Democratic National Committee . “ Qatar U.A.E . going , war getting , bloody .
“ The barriers entry space getting lower lower . ”
Before NSO helped Saudi government track adversaries outside kingdom , helped Mexican government hunt drug kingpins , earned hundreds millions dollars working dozens countries six continents , company consisted two high school friends northern Israel one relatively mundane idea .
Using technology developed graduates Intelligence Unit 8200 — Israel ’ equivalent N.S.A.— Shalev Hulio Omri Lavie started company 2008 allowed cellphone firms gain remote access customers ’ devices perform maintenance .
Word spread Western spy services , whose operatives spotted opportunity . At time , American European officials warning Apple , Facebook , Google tech giants developing technologies allowed criminals terrorists communicate encrypted channels indecipherable intelligence law enforcement agencies . They called phenomenon “ going dark . ”
Mr. Hulio Mr. Lavie offered way circumvent problem hacking end points communications — phones — data decrypted .
By 2011 , NSO developed first prototype , mobile surveillance tool company called Pegasus . Like namesake , Greek mythological winged horse , NSO ’ tool could something seemingly impossible : collect vast amounts previously inaccessible data smartphones air without leaving trace — including phone calls , texts , emails , contacts , location data transmitted apps like Facebook , WhatsApp Skype .
“ Once companies invade phone , . You ’ carrying around , ” Avi Rosen Kaymera Technologies , Israeli cyberdefense company , said NSO competitors .
The company soon first client Pegasus : government Mexico , engaged crackdown drug cartels . By 2013 , NSO installed Pegasus three Mexican agencies , according emails obtained The Times . The emails estimated , altogether , firm sold Mexican government $ 15 million worth hardware software . Mexico paying firm $ 77 million track wide array targets ’ every move swipe phone .
NSO products important Mexico ’ war cartels , according four people familiar Mexican government used Pegasus , speaking condition anonymity discuss intelligence matters . Mexican officials credited Pegasus instrumental helping track capture El Chapo , famed drug kingpin convicted last month New York sentenced life maximum-security prison .
Soon enough , NSO selling governments throughout world , company claiming clients every continent except Antarctica . NSO products — particularly Pegasus — helped break terrorist cells aided investigations organized crime child abduction , European intelligence law enforcement officials said interviews .
NSO ’ first client , Mexican government , also using hacking tools darker purposes — part broader government industry surveillance effort . The government used NSO products track least two dozen journalists , government critics , international investigators looking unsolved disappearance 43 students , even backers soda tax , according Times investigations research Citizen Lab , part University Toronto .
Those targets subjected stream harassing text messages contained malware . Some messages warned spouses affairs , others relative passed away . In one case , government officials able infiltrate phone journalist , targeted 16-year-old son ’ .
Though NSO says sells services criminal antiterrorism investigations , none Mexicans known targeted suspected criminal terrorism investigations .
“ NSO technology helped stop vicious crimes deadly terrorist attacks around world , ” company said statement . “ We tolerate misuse products regularly vet review contracts ensure used anything prevention investigation terrorism crime . ”
The company established ethics committee , decides whether sell spyware countries based human rights records reported global organizations like World Bank ’ human capital index , indicators . NSO would sell Turkey , example , poor record human rights , current former employees said .
But World Bank index , Turkey ranks higher Mexico Saudi Arabia , NSO clients . A spokesman Israel ’ Ministry Defense , needs authorize contract NSO wins foreign government , declined answer questions company .
A lawsuit alleged last year months death , Saudi Arabia used NSO products spy Mr. Khashoggi , Washington Post columnist strangled dismembered October Saudi operatives inside kingdom ’ consulate Istanbul . NSO denies accusation . Several Mr. Khashoggi ’ closest contacts targets NSO hacking tools , Citizen Lab reported . Without access Mr. Khashoggi ’ devices , researchers confirmed whether direct target NSO surveillance .
Even cases blatant abuse , NSO continued renew contracts government clients . In 2013 , instance , NSO inked first deal United Arab Emirates . Within year , Emirati government caught installing NSO spyware mobile phone Ahmed Mansoor , prominent human rights activist .
After receiving onslaught text messages containing links , Mr. Mansoor — frequent target Emirati surveillance — grew suspicious passed texts security researchers , determined links NSO lures exploited vulnerabilities Apple software take Mr. Mansoor ’ phone . It , researchers said , sophisticated spyware ever uncovered mobile device .
The discovery forced Apple release emergency patch . But , Mr. Mansoor already fired job , passport confiscated , car stolen , email hacked , location tracked , bank account emptied $ 140,000 , beaten strangers twice week .
“ You start believe every move watched . Your family starts panic , ” said interview arrested 2017 . “ I live . ”
Even U.A.E . caught spying Mr. Mansoor , leaked invoices showed NSO continued sell Emiratis millions dollars ’ worth spyware services . As Mr. Mansoor , sentenced 10 years prison damaging national unity held solitary confinement , health deteriorating .
A flurry news reports followed countries using NSO products spy citizens , prompting company temporarily rebrand “ Q , ” James Bond ’ gadget guru .
Despite bad news coverage , NSO ’ value continued skyrocket .
Francisco Partners , private equity firm , purchased 70 percent stake NSO $ 130 million 2013 . Last month , NSO ’ co-founders raised enough money buy back majority stake NSO valuation $ 1 billion . The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed deal — making major investors , including Oregon state employees ’ pension fund Alaska ’ sovereign wealth fund , part owners NSO , according public records .
The proliferation companies trying replicate NSO ’ success compete estimated $ 12 billion market so-called lawful intercept spyware set fierce competition hire American , Israeli Russian veterans world ’ sophisticated intelligence agencies — companies poach talent one another .
In late 2017 , NSO executives grew concerned spate resignations . Private detectives hired investigate soon found Mediterranean island Cyprus , tailing group former NSO employees — veterans Israel ’ Intelligence Unit 8200 — going back forth work research facility .
The building owned company affiliated DarkMatter , Emirati firm quietly hired Israelis develop technologies U.A.E . conduct cyberoperations perceived enemies home abroad .
DarkMatter also offices inside gleaming tower highway connecting Abu Dhabi Dubai , building houses U.A.E. ’ Signals Intelligence Agency , Emirates ’ version N.S.A .
This accident . DarkMatter effectively arm state worked directly Emirati intelligence operatives numerous missions hacking government ministries Turkey , Qatar Iran spying dissidents inside Emirates .
DarkMatter origins another company , American firm called CyberPoint years ago contracts U.A.E . help protect Emirates computer attacks . CyberPoint obtained license American government work Emiratis , necessary step intended regulate export military intelligence services . Many company ’ employees worked highly classified projects N.S.A . American intelligence agencies .
But Emiratis outsize ambitions repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees exceed boundaries company ’ American license . CyberPoint rebuffed requests Emirati intelligence operatives try crack encryption codes hack websites housed American servers — operations would run afoul American law .
So 2015 Emiratis founded DarkMatter — forming company bound United States law — lured least half-dozen American employees CyberPoint join . Marc Baier , former official N.S.A . unit carries advanced offensive cyberoperations , became one firm ’ top executives .
DarkMatter employed several former N.S.A . C.I.A . officers , according roster employees obtained The Times , making salaries hundreds thousands dollars year .
“ The assumption used left N.S.A. , ’ never kind offensive work . Now , clearly market , ” said Mr. Johnston , security expert . He worked military ’ Cyber Command , works closely N.S.A. , serving Marines .
“ The N.S.A . consider responsibility ensure hacking techniques taught employees used United States , ” said .
The company respond request comment , spokesman Emirati government . Asked whether ministry given license former Israeli intelligence operatives working DarkMatter , spokesman Israeli Ministry Defense declined comment . A lawyer Mr. Baier also declined comment .
Current former employees spy agency lifelong obligation protect United States ’ secrets , said Greg Julian , spokesman N.S.A . They also required report employment representation foreign governments two years leave agency , said .
Besides breaches foreign government ministries , DarkMatter also broke Gmail , Yahoo Hotmail accounts , according former employees . DarkMatter operatives posed family friends people targeted lure opening emails contained malware .
Former employees said DarkMatter targeted Mr. Mansoor , hacking child ’ baby monitor eavesdrop family . In another operation , company ’ operatives pursued Rori Donaghy , British activist critical Emirati government human rights record , also target NSO spyware . DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab , Canadian research organization , former employee said .
DarkMatter told employees spying American citizens would limits , proved empty pledge .
In one operation , previously reported , DarkMatter subsidiary began expansive effort intercept cellular communications Qatar , occasionally catching communications Americans surveillance net late 2015 . One American working project said raised concerns superiors , including former C.I.A . officer charge effort . The American , along another , pulled project asked sign nondisclosure agreement .
In repeated instances , DarkMatter collected information Americans , second former employee said . Most cases involved Americans worked foreign organizations — including human rights groups — DarkMatter targeted critical Emirati government , former employee said .
DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information , applications résumés belonging Americans applied work organizations . One former employee said collection accidental , records expunged company ’ databases .
In 2017 , former N.S.A . hacker began providing F.B.I . agents information company ’ activities , according Reuters report . Foreign Policy first reported F.B.I . investigation .
The informant , Lori Stroud , said become concerned company ’ surveillance Americans . She later left firm along several Americans could sure DarkMatter deliberately targeting citizens . Soon , F.B.I . agents began stopping American employees airports entered United States questioned DarkMatter ’ operations , according former company employees .
The Justice Department ’ case , run prosecutors Washington , focuses internet fraud possibly illegal transfer spying technology foreign country .
But prosecutors face headwinds , including diplomatic concerns jeopardizing United States ’ relationship U.A.E . — influential country developed close ties Trump administration — worries pursuing case could expose embarrassing details extent cooperation DarkMatter American intelligence agencies .
And reality American laws governing new age digital warfare murky , outdated , ill-equipped address rapid technological advances . The rules governing American intelligence military personnel provide foreign governments meant keep leash 20th-century warfare — selling missiles planes overseas training foreign forces Army tactics .
But address hacking skills honed front laptop , world ’ advanced intelligence agencies , sold highest bidder .
“ The worst part weapons easier get , ” said Brian Bartholomew , principal security researcher Kaspersky Lab , digital security company .
“ You ’ got lot people entering arena new ’ play rules , ” said . “ It ’ like putting military-grade weapon hands someone street . ”
An earlier version article misattributed source valuation market so-called lawful intercept spyware . The $ 12 billion market estimate cited Moody ’ originated company NSO , Moody ’ .
Scott Shane contributed reporting .




Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Ashley Powers
One day 2015 , Barbara Lavender ’ husband returned U.F.O . conference handed business card . It bore red theater-curtain background , vintage microphone gold-and-white lettering read : “ Sean David Morton , Radio Host , Public Speaker , Author , Director , Screen Writer , Actor. ” The polymathic Mr. Morton , Jeff Lavender told wife , U.F.O . royalty .
Mr. Morton spent years whisking E.T.-obsessed tourists Area 51 $ 99 pop , leveraged following stints wee-hours conspiracy show “ Coast Coast AM ” — one point , nation ’ No . 3 talk-radio program . He dabbled fringe arts , remote viewing psychic predictions earthquakes , elections stock market . But time Mr . Lavender saw talk Southern California , Mr. Morton shifted something truly fantastical : instant debt relief .
He ’ peddling workshop called “ The Sovereign Factor : The Revolution Starts With You ” — nod known sovereign citizens movement . A loose network perhaps tens thousands far-right antigovernment extremists , sovereigns share certain conspiratorial beliefs , sometimes , desire profit government whose legitimacy deny .
“ Do realize , ” read Mr. Morton ’ workshop description , “ ALL considered ‘ Incompetent , ’ ‘ Wards State , ’ ‘ Residents ’ ‘ Chattel Property ’ US Federal government , declare Emancipation ? Learn secrets get government back life ! ! ” One secrets called “ bond process. ” By submitting right set papers , Mr. Morton said , could wipe mortgage , tax bills student loans .
Mr. Morton ’ message appeal beyond tinfoil-hat crowd . In America Great Recession , plenty people upside-down mortgages student debt inclined believe anyone offering help . Ms . Lavender , listening husband recap workshop , intrigued . Years earlier , ’ borrowed $ 48,000 help son attend college . She husband worked mortgage industry Southern California decades , educational debt unfamiliar terrain . “ I never gone college , ” told recently . “ I took loan I ’ have. ” Ms . Lavender lost job deferred payments , interest kept piling . By time held Mr. Morton ’ business card hands , owed $ 70,000 .
She realized U.F.O . gathering unusual venue debt-relief advice . Her husband ’ annual get-togethers “ X-Files ” crowd hobby , good-natured punch line family . But size intractability loan balance weighed ; also , trusted husband , thought Mr. Morton ’ bond process worth checking . She told , “ I think probably enticed might little tiny kick pants government . ”
As Lavenders came discover , sovereign fraudsters snake-oil salesmen time . Peddling bouquet grifts varied tax fraud real estate scams , prey suspicion institutions , financial illiteracy , greed despair . You ’ even buy sovereign dogma get swindled . You need , Ms . Lavender , debt . From 1990 2013 , far-right extremists carried 600 financial schemes resulted criminal charges , according researchers run U.S . Extremist Financial Crime Database , affiliated National Consortium Study Terrorism Responses Terrorism clearinghouse kind .
That adds — conservatively — public losses $ 1 billion . The majority perpetrators either sovereigns ideological cousins , tax defiers . Fraud cross-burning white supremacists : expression belief .
Sovereigns , sometimes call “ freemen ” “ state citizens , ” foundational document , broadly subscribe alternate version American history . The tale vary sovereign sovereign , goes roughly like : At point , corporation secretly usurped United States government , went bankrupt sought aid international bankers . As collateral , corporation offered financiers … us . As sovereigns tell , birth certificate Social Security card benign documents , contracts enslave .
There , believe , pathway freedom : Renounce contracts otherwise assert sovereignty . ( Mr. Morton said told Social Security Administration , “ I ’ want number. ” ) Then one — taxman , police — tell . Not sovereigns con men , belief system lends deceit . You might declare “ diplomat ” nonexistent country . ( Mr. Morton represented Republic New Lemuria Dominion Melchizedek . ) Or start fake Native American tribe . Or blow court case American flag courtroom gold fringe . Some sovereigns even lashed violently law enforcement officers , ’ considered domestic terrorism threat .
Many sovereign myths hark back creation , 1913 , Federal Reserve . “ It weird , complicated instrument controlling monetary system . People saw sinister , ” author J. M. Berger told . In recent paper , Mr. Berger traced circulation ideas , part , company named Omni Publications , something like Infowars middle 20th century . One Omni title , “ The Federal Reserve Conspiracy , ” claimed “ enemy aliens ” infiltrated banking system , biographies could found “ Who ’ Who American Jewry. ” ( Sovereign lore often rooted anti-Semitism . ) By 1970s , intellectual father sovereign citizen movement , William Potter Gale , helped spread type falsehood larger audience .
The founder antigovernment group Posse Comitatus , Mr. Gale aligned emerging movement tax protesters argued , instance , paying taxes form involuntary servitude . In turn , introduced warped version America , patriots establish legal system hang defy . Mr. Gale ’ specific gift wrapping nonsense enough legalese sounded real . “ If movement offers essentially lot magic words say get trouble , ’ going really appeal people desperate angry , ” Mr. Berger said . Mr. Gale ’ outreach success . Over time , line thousands tax protesters Posse members blurred .
Take “ redemption ” — theory popularized , part , Gale associate . Remember corporation-slash-fake-government used us collateral ? According sovereign lore , means government set secret accounts names . Some believe contain oddly specific amount $ 630,000 . ( To clear , “ pure fantasy , ” according Internal Revenue Service . )
One way sovereigns try make imaginary money real abusing legitimate I.R.S . forms . Law-abiding taxpayers use Form 1099-OID , example , report “ original issue discount ” income . But sovereigns write fake OID income , fake withholding , order claim illegitimate refunds . If file return , risk least large fine . Yet 2012 2014 , according Treasury Inspector General Tax Administration , I.R.S . received close 7,000 sham OID filings .
Chronically underfunded understaffed , I.R.S . investigators refer two dozen sovereign-scam cases , average , prosecution year . The agency sometimes misses returns raise suspicion . For example , 2016 , I.R.S . discovered sizable redemption scheme — processing 207 bogus returns disbursing $ 43 million . That ’ another reason strange theories persist , begun leach sovereign network general population : Sometimes , improbably , work .
Mr. Morton born 1958 , comfortable childhood Northern California tutorial make sales pitch . His mother , Maureen Kennedy Salaman , — San Francisco magazine described — “ millionaire evangelical alternative-medicine fanatic ” promoted questionable cancer treatments .
She also member John Birch Society , far-right group known paranoid anticommunism , stockpiled beans , grains ammunition case Russian invasion . In 1984 , chosen vice-presidential nominee Populist Party , favorite white supremacists . ( Its presidential candidate following cycle former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke . ) In acceptance speech , warned crowd : “ We ’ evil powerful conspiracy world ever known . ”
When Mr. Morton reached adulthood , sold unorthodox beliefs behind suburban-dad veneer : flop dark hair , round , clean-shaven face , button-down-and-khakis wardrobe . He charismatic also childlike , friends said , ego easily bruised . He branded investigative reporter within U.F.O . world , 1990s , Mr. Morton appeared “ The Montel Williams Show , ” made outrageous claims — 100 alien species visited Earth ! — certainty Nobel laureate . “ I got close enough one things floating around desert actually get face burned , ” said .
Even U.F.O . enthusiasts considered kook , Mr. Morton ’ fans ’ care . The truth — Sean David Morton . Branding prophet , plumbed new-age convention circuit alongside specialists animal telepathy , chakras , hauntings , angelic gemstone messages afterlife . Near end millennium , convention Las Vegas , blue-eyed , reddish-haired woman approached . Back Utah , Melissa Thomson grown Mormon home married 22 ; worked banking , spare time , doted pedigreed cats , even serving treasurer local Cat Fanciers group . The “ Coast Coast ” program escape , spent hours fan-girling Mr. Morton , frequent guest .
At Las Vegas convention , Ms. Thomson apparently one goal : meet idol . “ It love first sight , ” Mr. Morton said . She soon left husband joined Mr. Morton Southern California . Her oldest brother , Robert , told , “ The found , warned Melissa decent person . But promised movie roles ; ’ inherit Mommy ’ home Atherton , condo Tahoe . All could see dollars. ” When got married , family refused attend .
( Through lawyer , Ms. Morton declined comment . Mr. Morton respond multiple requests comment , although said YouTube last fall The New York Times conducting “ massive smear campaign ” . Unless otherwise noted , quotes article court records . )
The Mortons lived Hermosa Beach , surf spot 20 miles downtown Los Angeles . Next mini-palaces , oatmeal-colored apartment building resembled servants ’ quarters , short stroll Pacific Ocean . Mr. Morton welcomed new wife ’ bushy-tailed Norwegian forest cats — new litter arrived , dozen scampered around apartment — turn oversaw administrative side Sean David Morton . He shilled conspiracy fiction ( “ The Dark Prophet — Veil Anti-Christ ” ) ; CDs ( “ Everything You Wanted Know About Future Vol . 2 ” ) ; $ 65 newsletter thousands subscribers ( “ TOMORROW ’ S HEADLINES TODAY ! ” ) .
Either ’ particularly lucrative , ’ lucrative enough replicate Mr. Morton ’ childhood wealth . From outside , hard tell . “ He always asking try help something could raise money , ” said Susan Shumsky , fellow fixture new-age circuit . “ Like , ‘ Let ’ trip Peru I money . Let ’ tele-seminar I make money. ’ ” Ms. Morton ’ pedigreed kittens , sold hundreds dollars , apparently kept solvent . At various points , also dog-walked worked Disneyland . Their friend Will Chappell said , “ It leading charge , leading family . She necessary accomplish goals . ”
Early relationship , website called UFO Watchdog — “ Exposing Parasites , Delusional Personalities , Morons Frauds Currently Clouding UFO Issue ” — dismantled much Mr. Morton ’ official biography . Mr. Morton sued ; case dismissed . But email included case file , Ms. Morton waved findings : “ I would concerned Sean DIDN ’ T critics . Some greatest people history people attacking every step . It means Sean something right trying make difference world . ”
By 2006 , couple expecting windfall . Ms. Salaman poor health ; died , Mr. Morton assumed ’ inherit mother ’ fortune . But relationship , already frosty , iced final weeks . Ms. Salaman ’ even want son wife visit . She cut , even kept $ 100,000 trust Great Dane , Duke .
“ They went berserk , ” Ms. Morton ’ brother recalled . “ It ’ scam scam scam . ”
While sovereign citizen movement inherently organized , members firmament become known gurus , vectors spreading ideology . Mr. Morton often lectured Living Temple , new age shop south Hermosa Beach . The owner favored black T-shirt five flying saucers admonition “ KEEP LOOKING UP , ” yoga music ommed clutter apothecary bottles , bags herbal something , miracle-cleanse guidebooks crop-circle DVDs .
One day , likely 2008 , man named Brandon Adams started showing . Like Mr. Morton , budding sovereign amplifier — much younger untucked button-downs looked like attempt playing dress-up . His family ran local tax-prep business . “ His whole thing banks , ” Mr. Morton said later . “ What considered great criminal conspiracy Internal Revenue Service banking cartels. ” Mr. Morton quickly got speaking slot .
Some Mr. Adams ’ talks recorded . Pacing front dozen people , scribbling phrases stick figures whiteboard , wove dark tale . The secret bankruptcy . The people-as-collateral . Then , twist : The banks skimming money — “ fractionalizing ” — every transaction make . He told group could reclaim funds via Form 1099-OID .
From folding chair , Mr. Morton — looking grayer rounder “ Montel Williams ” days — asked Mr. Adams anyone really gotten big refund way . Yes , Mr. Adams said . “ The funny thing , watch quiet people start get ’ sure process start getting returns. ” Laughter . “ They ’ got mentality : ‘ I ’ going say I got two hundred fifty grand . ’ ”
The audience lapped . This America financial crisis : The banks bailed , homeowners , era Tea Party rallies Occupy Wall Street encampments imminent . It ’ much leap suspect Washington cahoots likes J.P. Morgan . Mr. Adams ’ Living Temple talks drew large enough crowds moved bigger venue sold private coaching $ 200 hour . “ It became movement , really , ” Mr. Morton said . ( Mr. Adams respond multiple requests comment . )
In spring 2009 , Mr. Adams ’ tutelage , Mortons tried OID scheme . Mr. Morton filed four years returns — 2005 2008 — claimed nearly $ 4 million refunds . His wife filed 2007 return claimed $ 12,000 . “ I never , ever , ever thought I breaking law , ” Mr. Morton later said . “ I thought law. ” His faith bolstered , April , got refund one returns : direct deposit Washington Mutual account $ 480,322.55 .
In 2010 , Securities Exchange Commission went Mortons different scheme — one connection sovereign ideology . Mr. Morton used unconventional celebrity years earlier begin investment club , would channel psychic powers predicting foreign currency markets . It ’ risky type trading , Mr. Morton bragged forecasts accurate even Henry Paulson , Treasury secretary , relied .
After hearing Mr. Morton promote fund “ Coast Coast , ” man Washington State invested $ 217,000 . An elderly New York woman parted $ 20,000 . “ He ’ promising stars , ” recalled Tim Saunders , Alaska electrician poured life savings $ 135,000 . “ Yeah , greed came , I felt I needed , quickly. ” In , 100 people invested $ 6 million . Mr. Morton sank half foreign-currency trading — nearly lost . At least $ 240,000 funneled nonprofit Mortons set , authorities ’ know rest . In 2013 , S.E.C . $ 11.5 million judgment . ( Ms. Morton relief defendant , meaning accused profiting scheme . )
The Mortons filed bankruptcy , repeatedly misled government — instance , claimed bank accounts . A court eventually denied discharge , meaning ’ get rid debt . They also tossed beach-adjacent apartment . “ Bottom line , ” Ms. Morton told bankruptcy trustee one day , “ I want able get decent job , nice place live , pay taxes , life back . ”
It around time Mortons turned hawking debt-erasing sovereign scheme known “ bond process. ” Over two years , helped people around country send nearly two dozen fake bonds I.R.S. , Quicken Loans , PennyMac , Bank America , Chase Bank treasurer ’ office Contra Costa County , California . Early 2015 , Barbara Lavender , woman whose husband met Mr. Morton U.F.O . conference , gave call .
Ms . Lavender 61 front-desk clerk adult school . When I met last year Hemet , Calif. , nearly 90 parched miles east Los Angeles , ranch-style home trimmed red Christmas lights . We chatted kitchen table , 14-year-old dog , Remy , curled feet . She explained spoke Mr. Morton phone , avoided talking sovereign ideology . Instead , said could purchase portion bond held — almost magically make educational loan disappear .
To wipe $ 70,000 balance , suggested Ms . Lavender send $ 2,500 , less 4 percent owed . She husband believed Mr. Morton discovered sort workaround rich people find . “ You know , ” testified later . “ You hear time : ‘ wealthy tax loopholes , ’ kind thing . ”
The bond looked authentically bureaucratic , formal scalloped border . It really certificate paper Office Depot . The accompanying paperwork said student loan company entitled paid back fund , reality , United States taps help stabilize foreign currencies . Mr. Morton said warned Ms . Lavender : “ Look , I ’ know going work . I ’ lawyer. ” He added , “ It ’ going depend whether accept . ”
A month Mortons mailed bond package , Ms . Lavender checked educational loan balance , saw ’ budged wrote Ms. Morton email . She ’ get response . Ms . Lavender sent follow-up follow-up . “ This beginning feel increasingly like scam , ” wrote October , “ bilked hard-earned money spare . ”
Ms. Morton finally replied said ’ recovering knee surgery . Ms . Lavender sent almost apologetic response . Her attention elsewhere — husband died suddenly brain mass . “ Once hear Sean , let know thinks next ? ” wrote . “ With husband gone , debt even greater burden main breadwinner . ”
Nothing came exchange . That winter , two men jackets showed Ms. Lavender ’ home questioned Mortons , bond process , outcome . Afterward , Ms . Lavender took one business cards nephew , works local sheriff ’ office . Yes , reassured . They really I.R.S .
On Jan. 31 , 2016 , nearly 200-foot-tall , white-and-blue cruise ship called Ruby Princess docked Port Los Angeles . About 100 guests board paid $ 3,000 marketed Conspira-Sea Cruise — weeklong jaunt Mexican waters American paranoia , “ Vaccinations : Do You Really Know What ’ Coming Through That Needle ? ” “ Conspiracy Steal Your Body Soul. ” As Mortons prepared disembark , arrested federal agents .
After years digging I.R.S . investigators , Mortons faced suite charges related tax filings fake bonds . Once Ruby Princess , Mr. Morton led workshop called “ From Fascism Freedom , ” separated , patted asked medications took . Mr. Morton said ask Melissa . An agent . “ Cyanide , ” said , seething . On way jail , added , “ Do favor tell Sean : ‘ Thank I ’ see next life . ’ ”
Their trial began Tax Day , 2017 . The prosecution told simple story greed . “ I submit I.R.S . slot machine , ” one prosecutor , Valerie Makarewicz , said . “ Keep hitting spin . Keep playing hit jackpot. ” The day Mortons got $ 480,322.55 refund , said , went bank drained nearly account . Once I.R.S . realized mistake tried recoup money , Mortons filed two rounds bogus returns set fake bonds .
Ms. Morton ’ lawyer presented good-faith defense . She thrall sovereign gurus , said , “ people kind strutted back forth stage answer everything. ” He showed jury 37 pages perfect-cursive notes Ms. Morton took Brandon Adams lecture . “ In courtroom , ’ obviously nonsense . But time , people believed , Melissa Morton believed . ”
Mr. Morton represented . “ I ’ rapist , thug , war criminal , ” said opening statement . “ I ’ run Nazi concentration camp murder millions children . ”
Serving lawyer also meant cross-examined witnesses . “ Are familiar bankruptcy United States 1933 ? ” asked government ’ fraud expert . It reference sovereign conspiracy theory .
“ No , ” witness said . “ I ’ . ”
During closing argument , trial ’ fourth day , Mr. Morton told jury Norwegian forest cats . Earlier week , said , wife tried save premature kitten . They stayed late , swaddled cloth , fed milk eye dropper . The kitten died anyway . Ask , implored jurors , “ Do send nice people care kittens raise cats jail forever ? ” The panel deliberated two hours . When returned , Ms. Morton greeted hopeful smile . The verdict : guilty counts . She fainted .
Around time , prominent sovereigns facing reckoning . A court permanently barred Mr. Adams preparing tax returns promoting OID scheme ; ended prison peddling fake money orders . Another guru Conspira-Sea Cruise named Winston Shrout ( workshop : “ Conspiracy Court System ” ) awaiting trial Oregon .
Mr. Morton ’ sentencing set June . But 11 a.m. hearing started , ’ show .
Agents spotted afternoon outside Domino ’ Hermosa Beach , gray hood sunglasses shrouding much face . He hopped white Ford Escape headed south . The next morning , tweeted plea donations : “ Melissa ( cats ) need help relocating . ”
Two months passed . Mr. Morton resurfaced via video friend ’ online talk show , “ Project Camelot ” ( “ Getting Truth Out One Whistleblower Time ” ) . His hair mussed , ’ startled awake , wore headset , black V-neck dark-rimmed glasses took .
His version “ hello ” ripping judge prosecutors “ biggest gang criminals ’ ever going see. ” Soon , turned attention impending solar eclipse . “ This one biggest turning points American history ! ” said . The video clocked 40,000 views . It vintage Sean David Morton , say impossible tell , anything , believed .
I asked Will Chappell , known Mortons decade , whether actual sovereign dogmatists . He said , “ She definitely believed story Sean telling . I believe Sean believed story telling . A little bit , I believed it. ” And , convictions ? “ Melissa , course , knowing knew , would gone long time ago . I think Sean would still done . He still thinks missed step . ”
The solar eclipse took place August , week Mr. Morton ’ on-the-lam interview . Though Ms. Morton promised court would contact fugitive husband , couple rendezvoused hotel outside Palm Springs . That morning , moon briefly blotted sun , Mr. Morton lounging poolside swim trunks , purple mountains arrayed , eclipse glasses side . An I.R.S . agent walked . It .
At sentencing , Ms. Morton distanced . “ I living embodiment ‘ love blind , ’ ” wrote judge . “ If I ever questioned teachings processes others , I told , I question others far smarter I ? There thousands attendees workshops seminars . It convincing , well-organized believable . How could thousands people wrong ? ” She sentenced two years prison filed appeal . Behind bars , passed time taking classes — résumé-writing , watercolor-painting , embroidery — watching Food Network ; recently transferred halfway house . Emails posted Project Camelot site suggest husband still touch .
Mr. Morton sentenced six years prison . He ’ representing appeal , court papers argued ’ “ improperly profiled ” “ terrorist sovereign citizen. ” On Project Camelot , ’ unrepentant — even sharing pardon request said sent President Trump .
“ It ’ work RADIO TV INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM DEEP STATE forces within D.O.J . put wife I prison YEARS ! ” wrote . Of course , suggestion correct injustice : donate PayPal account .
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Raphael Minder
MADRID — The simmering conflict Catalan independence roared back center Spanish attention Tuesday , 12 people went trial roles botched secession attempt 2017 , Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez scrambled keep issue toppling government .
The eagerly anticipated trial Spanish Supreme Court Madrid drawn enormous attention broadcast live national television , could soon overshadowed political crisis unfolding blocks away , Parliament .
On Wednesday , Mr. Sánchez ’ minority Socialist government faces crucial parliamentary vote national budget . If majority lawmakers reject , including Catalan lawmakers far backed prime minister , almost certainly forced call elections .
With Spain ’ government hanging balance , Supreme Court intense pressure demonstrate remain impartial politics case ignited passions recriminations . The Catalan separatist leaders indicted charges include rebellion , holding independence referendum declaring independence October 2017 — moves Spanish courts ruled unconstitutional .
The secessionist conflict split Catalan society , also helped reshape Spain ’ politics . Mr. Sánchez came office unexpectedly June , winning vote no-confidence previous conservative government , backing Basque Catalan nationalist lawmakers .
To stay office , needs maintain support separatist parties governed Catalonia , wealthy northeastern region Spain , since 2015 . But Quim Torra , leader regional government , insisted party would back national budget unless Mr. Sánchez agreed consider another independence referendum , prime minister refused .
On Tuesday , María Jesús Montero , Spain ’ budget minister , told lawmakers trial conflict Catalonia “ polarized ” debate budget , insisted “ government cede blackmail ” separatist lawmakers .
“ We always betting political dialogue within constitutional framework , make clear framework — nothing outside constitutional order , ” said .
Mr. Sánchez ’ attempt renew political dialogue separatists recently labeled treason leader Spain ’ conservative party , Pablo Casado .
Almost every aspect criminal case subject intense political feuding , location trial — Madrid rather Barcelona — decision Spain ’ judiciary deny bail defendants keep prison since late 2017 .
The defendants ’ supporters see conditions reinforcing independence movement ’ complaints oppressive central government . Opponents secessionism , hand , hope prison sentences Catalan leaders deter illegal attempts break Spain .
Within main chamber frescoed Supreme Court building , built 18th century , panel seven justices 12 defendants listened opening arguments Tuesday . Oriol Junqueras , former deputy leader Catalonia , occupied frontbench .
Andreu Van den Eynde , lawyer Mr. Junqueras opened proceedings , cast case matter free expression , right protest right vote .
“ We make political defense , defend human values rights , ” Mr. Van den Eynde said . The defendants , argued , already faced legal proceeding “ every constitutional right restricted . ”
A handful indicted politicians missing trial , however , including Carles Puigdemont , former leader Catalonia , fled Brussels successfully resisted Spain ’ attempts extradite .
Outside Supreme Court building , television crews heavy police surveillance jostled space ; 600 journalists accredited cover trial .
In surrounding streets , protesters , carried Spanish flags , denounced Mr. Sánchez handling Catalan conflict called ouster — small echo anti-government demonstration drew tens thousands people Sunday .
“ I rely judges politicians ’ done put end attempt destroy Spain , ” said Santiago Pulido , house painter , held sign drawing two defendants devil ’ horns .
Some defendants face 25 years prison found guilty , sentences “ much heavier , ” Mr. Pulido said . “ They responsible dividing Spanish people making people fight within country — I think serious crime . ”
The trial expected last least three months . But budgetary defeat Wednesday could force Mr. Sánchez call elections summer , means could take place verdicts made public .
Opposition politicians want Mr. Sánchez hold general election May 26 , Spain already hold municipal regional elections , well votes European Parliament .
Speaking outside courtroom , Mr. Van den Eynde , defense lawyer , said trial views already politicized could influenced snap election .
“ We ’ trying stay focused trial , ” said , “ know politics change , everything change . ”



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Paul Mozur Austin Ramzy
HONG KONG — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei sued United States government Wednesday , arguing unfairly incorrectly banned security threat .
The lawsuit force government make case company public , could also leave Huawei vulnerable deeper scrutiny business practices relationship Chinese government .
The United States argued Huawei poses risk equipment could used Chinese authorities spy communications disrupt telecommunications networks . That position led major wireless carriers United States avoid Huawei ’ equipment .
Huawei denies allegations says lawsuit meant prove engage practices . The company ’ plans file lawsuit first reported Monday The New York Times .
“ The U.S. Congress repeatedly failed produce evidence support restrictions Huawei products , ” Guo Ping , Huawei ’ rotating chairman , said statement announcing filing lawsuit . “ We compelled take legal action proper last resort . ”
The lawsuit , filed United States District Court Plano , Tex. , Huawei American headquarters , argues part 2019 National Defense Authorization Act unconstitutional singles Huawei . The act bans government agencies contracting Huawei companies use company ’ equipment .
Huawei , China ’ biggest maker telecommunications equipment , pressure months United States authorities . Now , ’ striking back . The suit part markedly aggressive legal public relations offensive Huawei recently mounted push back spying accusations .
During news briefing broadcast official Huawei feed Twitter , Mr. Guo pulled punches .
“ The U.S. government long branded Huawei threat , hacked service stolen emails source code , ” said , referring National Security Agency documents provided former contractor Edward J. Snowden showed agency pried way Huawei ’ systems .
“ Still , U.S. government sparing effort smear company mislead public Huawei , ” added . The briefing , streamed Twitter — American internet platform blocked China — reached two million people .
In December , Meng Wanzhou , daughter Huawei ’ founder chief financial officer company , detained Canada behest United States , seeking extradite .
Her father , Ren Zhengfei , company ’ founder , since rejected claims daughter said would wait see President Trump would intervene case . Ms. Meng court week Vancouver , British Columbia , part extradition hearing .
In meantime , Huawei battled many customers nations said would pull back buying products . China also retaliated Canada detaining several Canadian citizens . This week , Canadian officials also complained China begun suspend import canola country .
Lu Kang , spokesman China ’ Ministry Foreign Affairs , said Thursday Chinese decision based discovery pests Canadian canola .
China long history interrupting trade countries middle diplomatic spats . In September 2010 , China halted export rare earth metals Japan two months dispute sovereignty cluster tiny islands Japan Taiwan . Weeks later , China suspended trade talks Norway halted import Norwegian salmon Nobel Peace Prize awarded Chinese dissident Norwegian committee .
Huawei ’ lawsuit argues singling company , Congress violated constitutional principles separation powers also bill attainder clause , prohibits legislation singles person entity punishment without trial .
“ The actual intended effect prohibitions bar Huawei significant segments U.S. market telecommunications equipment services , thereby inflicting immediate ongoing economic , competitive , reputational harms Huawei , ” company ’ lawyers wrote suit .
They added prohibitions carried without “ fair hearing opportunity rebut allegations , without opportunity escape . ”
The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab filed , ultimately lost , similar legal challenge two years ago . After Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies ban Kaspersky products systems , Congress codified directive law .
Kaspersky filed two lawsuits arguing singled punishment without trial . A judge ultimately dismissed lawsuits , pointing came legitimate desire protect American networks .
The Justice Department filed criminal charges Huawei January , cases focus company ’ connections evading American sanctions Iran theft intellectual property . Neither relates core question faced governments around world whether using Huawei ’ equipment new 5G networks causes security concerns .
The new lawsuit seeks focus question , push United States government make case . While Huawei unlikely reverse American opposition company , may hope win government officials countries , including Europe , probably following American lawsuit closely .
Debate security Huawei ’ systems come critical moment , countries around world preparing spend hundreds billions dollars expanding cellular networks next generation 5G technology .
The new networks faster speeds , also used connect bewildering number new sensors data-collection systems alongside smartphones . That would make vulnerabilities networks potentially serious cellular networks past .
Mr. Lu , Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman , expressed support Huawei ’ legal action .
“ We believe perfectly justified fully understandable companies safeguard legitimate rights interests legal means , ” said .
Many Chinese expressed support social media Huawei ’ legal stand United States . Some others noted sarcasm difficulties similar legal recourse companies individuals within China ’ system .
“ So sue government ? ” wrote one user Weibo , Chinese social media service . “ Interesting . All sudden I ’ thinking , actually I ’ dare think it. ” .
Keith Bradsher contributed reporting Shanghai . Zoe Mou contributed research Beijing , Qiqing Lin Shanghai .



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Associated Press
MOGADISHU , Somalia — Gunmen Islamist militant group stormed government building Somalia ’ capital , Mogadishu , suicide car bombing Saturday , killing least five people , including country ’ deputy labor minister , police said .
Somali security forces fought hourslong gun battle least five assailants retake control building , houses ministries labor works , police officer , Capt . Mohamed Hussein , said .
The Reuters news agency , citing police sources , put death toll end battle 15 .
Saqar Ibrahim Abdalla , Somalia ’ deputy minister labor social affairs , killed ground-floor office shortly gunmen stormed building , Captain Hussein said .
Saturday working day Somalia , dozens people believed building time attack .
The Shabab claimed responsibility attack building , far headquarters Somali intelligence agency . As attack unfolded , gunfire could heard building . White smoke billowed scene , witnesses said .
A similar attack targeting busy area Mogadishu February killed least 24 people . That attack also began pair car bombs exploding popular area Mogadishu Somalis relaxing restaurants .
The Shabab , links Al Qaeda , frequently carry suicide bombings targeting public places , hotels government offices . They Africa ’ active Islamist militant group , fighting years take power create Islamic state Somalia .
The group continues mount lethal attacks despite pushed Mogadishu , part African Union peacekeepers . It mostly operates rural areas country ’ south .
The group carried many deadly attacks neighboring Kenya retaliation Kenya ’ deployment 2011 peacekeepers Somalia .
The United States military carried number deadly airstrikes recent months Shabab .


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
France Dispatch
By Adam Nossiter
BAYONNE , France — The government Paris disapproves . But local mayor ’ care . He says continue sheltering Africans crossing Spanish border France .
For Jean-René Etchegaray , mayor Bayonne , quiet refined city French Basque Country , 22 miles border , matter necessity humanitarian obligation .
Since Italy closed borders migrants France tried close border migrants coming Italy , Spain become prime gateway Europe migrants Africa , 57,000 arriving last year .
Many crossing France transiting Bayonne , place “ everything reasonable , ” Stendhal wrote mid-19th century .
But Mr. Etchegaray sees reasonable stance put war government President Emmanuel Macron , even mayor become case study front-line management Europe ’ migration crisis contradictions .
The mayor ’ necessarily want young men , predominantly French-speaking West African countries like Guinea , Mali Ivory Coast , hanging around forever . He also ’ want camping streets tall , old , half-timbered Basque houses nestled along slow-moving rivers .
But wants migrants exist , city , “ condition dignity , ” put . “ I ’ think I less , ” said .
So Mr. Etchegaray took young men streets , requisitioned old military barracks near train station , put camp beds , brought hot meals keeps place heated .
The young men greet warmly shows , several times day .
“ Good man , ” said one temporary guests , Abdul Sylla , 29-year-old Guinea harbors vague hopes studying . “ Close people . ”
Official France keeps wagging finger city ’ mayor .
It “ absolutely question ” state “ would give slightest aid ” mayor ’ shelter , Gilbert Payet , recently Mr. Macron ’ regional representative Interior Ministry , testily told local reporters last month .
The mayor unfazed .
“ I saw frontiers closing , far I ’ concerned , fundamental rights ’ trampled , ” Mr. Etchegaray said , evoking Bayonne ’ heritage refuge Jews fleeing Spanish Inquisition birthplace great Jewish jurist René Cassin , helped draft Universal Declaration Human Rights .
The French state ’ attitude toward mayor illustrates Mr. Macron ’ ambiguities subject migration .
germany
200 miles
Paris
switz .
France
Atlantic
Ocean
italy
Mediterranean Sea
spain
30 miles
Bayonne
Bay Biscay
france
Irun
basque country
spain
By The New York Times
On one hand , exalted France ’ humanitarian traditions asked police treat migrants fairness .
On , government refused admission migrant ships , put migrant rights advocates trial boasted many foreigners expelled turned back frontiers .
The Italians angrily accused French hypocrisy , Mr. Etchegaray used word .
“ The prefect said , ‘ No , , , , , ! ’ ” recalled Maïté Etcheverry , young volunteer runs shelter Bayonne .
But mayor merely carried — distributing blankets ; inquiring migrants ’ well-being ; paying center budget local agglomeration towns runs .
“ They said , ‘ You ’ going create pull factor even migrants , ’ ” Mr. Etchegaray said laugh interview office past week .
“ They said , ‘ You ’ going create another Calais , ’ ” said , referring squalid encampments northern France , since demolished , thousands migrants waited mud , cold misery , hoping get England .
So far , ’ turned way .
“ I ’ feel I ’ anything contrary law , ” Mr. Etchegaray said mildly .
“ Look , I ’ kind radical crazy person , ” continued , noting migrants stay days move .
He even moved bus stop low-cost travel services front shelter , make easier migrants leave . And went war bus company drivers demanding , illegally , Africans produce identity papers .
“ We squatters France supported City Hall , ” Ms. Etcheverry said , grinning .
“ That mayor , ’ deep prefect , visibly interior minister , ” said Ms. Etcheverry , law student . “ It ’ really kind extraordinary . ”
A self-described “ radical pro-Basque independence leftist , ” found political opposition 66-year-old center-right mayor . Not time .
The migrants come go center day , often arriving inconspicuous cars traffickers . The local police say seedy district around train station nearby Spanish border city Irún become hive trafficking .
One recent day , group six young African men backpacks hurried single file across plaza Irún flight stairs .
They bundled waiting car quickly drove . Watching plaza several spotters talking furtively phones . All happened right noses group Spanish police officers 20 yards away stir .
French Spanish officers wait opposite sides bridge crossing river separates Spain France corner . The border open , unless migrant — case might get stopped , checked sent back .
If migrants make shelter Bayonne , however , temporary refuge .
The local police enter courtyard converted shelter , long , low hall staffed volunteers stocked donations food clothing . The young men staying play scrabble lie quietly camp beds , grateful worst seems behind .
“ I never want see sea , ” said Ibrahima Doumbia , young Guinean crossed Mediterranean boat . “ I fright life . ”
With arrival cold weather fall , knew growing migrant population Bayonne could longer stay one city ’ main squares , people camping .
“ It cold raining , ’ ’ Mr. Etchegaray said . ‘ ‘ We ’ leave anymore . They cold , sick hungry . ”
The mayor formed plans initiative quickly . “ He came directly square , ” Ms. Etcheverry recalled , adding remembered saying , “ I ’ back half-hour . ”
When returned , led volunteers migrants underground parking lot municipal police — temporary solution something better could found .
“ He accompanied , showed toilets , ’ ’ Ms. Etcheverry recounted . “ He saw quiet , young people helping young people . But never imagined would end like , center financed municipality . ”
It mayor ’ duty , Mr. Etchegaray said .
“ The state ’ want know , ” added . “ But , I ’ got know . And emergency . ”



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
Bits
By Jamie Condliffe
Hi . I ’ Jamie Condliffe . Greetings London . Here ’ look week ’ tech news .
There little fashionable 2019 desire curb Big Tech ’ power . But knowing far regulators go putting limits Silicon Valley ’ largest companies ’ straightforward .
At one extreme , calls break Big Tech . Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines week called . Ms. Warren , Massachusetts Democrat , argued companies ’ offer products platforms controlled ( like Apple ’ selling apps App Store — something Spotify called European regulators Wednesday ) . She also said would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions , Facebook ’ takeovers Instagram WhatsApp .
Her pitch ’ perfect , The New York Times ’ Kevin Roose pointed — ’ generic , misses easy wins overlooks big issues . But bold , inspiring rally cry Big Tech ’ biggest critics .
At end spectrum : tech companies . Ideally , likes Facebook Google would love perpetually operate lightly regulated world helped grow quickly . But even Mark Zuckerberg , Facebook ’ chief executive , acknowledged “ inevitable regulation ” testified House Energy Commerce Committee April .
There ’ plenty room extremes . Take , example , report published Wednesday British government , called overhaul antitrust policies Big Tech . Its main proposal : new regulator identify companies “ strategic market status , ” block activities — promoting products services search results belonging competitors ( hello , Google ! ) .
That , report ’ authors say , “ pro-business pro-consumer solution ” “ changing antitrust law drive breakup ” businesses .
So ’ right ? Mr. Zuckerberg , least says regulatory intervention inevitable . There ’ strong bipartisan support regulation . As line drawn , ’ harder say .
Breaking big companies ’ easy : It ’ expensive takes long time . And ’ always go plan . The last notable attempt , judge ruled two decades ago Microsoft cleaved violated antitrust law , overturned appeal . So Ms. Warren could work cut .
But may ultimately become question balancing ambition need . Is better gamble breaking big companies , guarantee new rules curb behavior ? That ’ something lawmakers going wrestle .
When OpenAI founded three years ago , huge goal : build artificial intelligence software capable human brain . Its founders said nonprofit noble ambitions — $ 1 billion funding backers pay way — public could trust build so-called general artificial intelligence .
Only , $ 1 billion ’ go far goals like . Huge computing resources big salaries attract talent burn cash . Actually , turns , profits might useful .
So , Wired reported , Open AI announced changing business model . To keep Facebook Google , created OpenAI L.P. , company take money investors need return profit , like venture funds . That make easier raise funds . Down line , might monetize technology develops . But company decided cap returns investors see — $ 100 every dollar invested .
One way think figure OpenAI deems 100-times return ethical margin building general A.I . — enough make feasible endeavor , much tar Big Tech brush . That reasoning clearly holds inhabit Silicon Valley . But interesting see profit cap enough put everyone ease .
On March 12 , 1989 , Tim Berners-Lee proposed idea linking digital files boss , Mike Sendall , called “ vague exciting. ” It ultimately became World Wide Web , 30 years later ’ left much love — hate — existence .
At event London ’ Science Museum Tuesday mark web ’ passage fourth decade , Mr. Berners-Lee asked might look like another 30 years . Here ’ said :
■ “ It ’ , I think , us try guess . ”
■ “ Look ’ happened last 30 years . The web changed really dramatically , lot ’ predicted . ”
■ “ What say web want . ”
■ “ We want web open . We want web royalty-free . We want web discrimination-free . ”
Worthy goals . And article wrote past week , Mr. Berners-Lee laid steps may required ensure happen :
■ “ Governments must translate laws regulations digital age . They must ensure markets remain competitive , innovative open . ”
■ “ Companies must ensure pursuit short-term profit expense human rights , democracy , scientific fact public safety . ”
■ “ Platforms products must designed privacy , diversity security mind . “
■ “ And important , citizens must hold companies governments accountable . ”
Thirty years , Mr. Sendall ’ analysis might apply equally well proposal , .
Elon Musk really dislikes whistle-blowers . According Businessweek , Mr. Musk , Tesla chief executive , set destroy one employee leaked details raw materials wastage company .
How Google pay executives accused misconduct ? Handsomely : Two shared total $ 135 million , according details emerged lawsuit week .
Who fund next wave tech start-ups ? That ’ millionaires created companies like Airbnb Uber go public .
You care TikTok . You might never use , could reshape social media know .
Scientists dropped smartphone blender . Because , apparently , best way work much cobalt , gold substances .
How disappear ( almost ) completely : A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps going dark staying online .
Silicon Valley wants build monument . To Silicon Valley , obviously .
Jamie Condliffe editor DealBook newsletter . He also writes weekly Bits newsletter . Follow Twitter : @ jme_c .
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Vivian Yee Hwaida Saad
BEIRUT , Lebanon — Lebanon ’ newly formed government , gives Islamist movement Hezbollah key ministries , raised concerns country could run afoul sanctions United States prohibit material support Iran-backed group .
On Friday , United States warned Hezbollah propping agenda new position , includes key posts Lebanon ’ government , including Ministry Health .
American officials concerned Hezbollah use ministry provide state-subsidized health care patronage jobs supporters possibly even fighters , helping endure punishing American sanctions made difficult group offer usual social services Shiite Muslim base .
“ We call new government ensure resources services ministries provide support Hezbollah , ” said State Department spokesman , Robert Palladino .
As new cabinet coalesced Thursday nearly nine months political deadlock , assistant United States Treasury secretary terrorist financing , Marshall Billingslea , warned Hezbollah tried “ exploit ministries funnel money undertake activities support terrorist agenda , significant concerns . ”
Hezbollah expected gain strength government group allies expanded share seats Lebanon ’ parliamentary elections last May , significantly weakening Western-backed prime minister , Saad Hariri , bloc . Now control Health Ministry , fourth-largest budget government , ability embed Lebanese state institutions made bigger target elusive prey United States , designated terrorist group .
Lebanon ’ political system awards posts patronage spoils politicians different religious affiliations order maintain balance among country ’ 18 officially recognized religious sects . There long history ministers stripes using Health Ministry provide free subsidized health care supporters . Analysts believe Hezbollah may try , whether Shiite base , troublingly United States , Hezbollah fighters wounded Syrian civil war next door .
“ This yet another example Hezbollah openly holding Lebanon ’ security prosperity hostage , ” said Rachel Mikeska , spokeswoman American Embassy Lebanon . She added United States “ prepared take whatever actions necessary protect interests Lebanese people . ”
She declined say actions might . But analysts said possibilities ranged relatively restrained — reducing funding Health Ministry squeezing international donors , like World Health Organization , — dire . The United States could theoretically impose sanctions Lebanese hospitals , preventing export American medications Lebanon , cut American military aid Lebanese Army .
It unclear Hezbollah might Health Ministry Trump administration would consider violation sanctions law President Trump signed October . Analysts said Hezbollah may chosen Dr. Jamil Jabak , 63-year-old internist close ties Hezbollah , health minister try avoid direct sanctions ministry . Dr. Jabak member Hezbollah , said served personal physician group ’ leader .
“ Would Washington consider free health care Hezbollah members provided Health Ministry example ‘ significant financial support ? ’ ” wrote Michael Young , political observer journalist Carnegie Middle East Center Beirut , opinion column last year . “ It ’ difficult say would never . ”
The United States ’ various interests Lebanon often end conflict , including comes Hezbollah : It wants counter Iran proxies , also maintain Lebanon ’ stability war Syria continues burn ; also wants battle terrorism push back Russian influence Middle East .
Though Washington designated Hezbollah terrorist organization actions around world close relationship Iran , group also baked legitimate parts Lebanese state , making difficult United States target without also affecting rest country .
“ The debate U.S. Lebanon always prioritize balance competing priorities , ” said Firas Maksad , director Arabia Foundation , Washington-based think tank leans toward pro-Saudi Arabia anti-Iran policies .
On one side debate anti-Iran hard-liners , argue “ Iran Mediterranean , Hezbollah uses Lebanese political elite Lebanese government thin veil political cover , ” Mr. Maksad said .
Those voices , include Republicans Congress members Trump administration , may push cutting aid Lebanese Army — significant source support armed forces — well Health Ministry .
Opposing hawkish views , including much traditional foreign policy establishment , prefer measured response .
Given Lebanon ’ floundering economy political instability , Mr. Maksad said , “ ’ want whole place come down. ” ( The prospect economic collapse greatly increased pressure country ’ political factions strike power-sharing agreement . )
They also argue reducing military aid would leave room Russia , expanded influence across Middle East , make inroads Lebanon .
In general , sanctions financial tools come primary stick used United States Iran regional partners . On trip Beirut last week , Mr. Billingslea urged Lebanese officials exclude Hezbollah involvement country ’ banking financial sectors , called reforms would allow Lebanese authorities block freeze accounts associated group .
But Hezbollah continues expand influence Lebanese institutions , sanctions may prove overly blunt tool , hitting legitimate government services civilians addition party .
In past , Hezbollah played smaller role government , “ could easily separate Hezbollah state institutions , ” said Hanin Ghaddar , Lebanese-American analyst Washington Institute Near East Policy frequent critic Hezbollah .
Now , Hezbollah commanding broad swath government , asked , “ How keep stability Lebanese institutions going Hezbollah everything ? ”
But Kassem Qassir , Lebanese political analyst close Hezbollah , said concerns Hezbollah ’ dominance overblown .
“ Nobody sole control Lebanon , neither Hezbollah anybody else , ” said . “ Lebanon diverse country . ”
In televised interview Saturday , Hassan Nasrallah , organization ’ secretary general , said group intend meddle Lebanon ’ balance power .
But Mr. Maksad noted Hezbollah managed forge pacts Christian Sunni politicians well Shiite ones , held formation new government prime minister , Sunni , agreed allow Hezbollah ’ Sunni allies cabinet — unmistakable mark strength .
Of new faces 30-seat cabinet , Dr. Jabak , physician leading ministry closely watched West , attracted immediate attention .
“ I ’ belong political party , ” said radio interview Friday .


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Julia Jacobs
Forty years ago , C-Span went live first public broadcast House Representatives chamber , giving Americans television-shaped window lawmakers behave ornate room history often made .
Ushering C-Span era March 19 , 1979 , Al Gore , representative Tennessee , pushed network ’ access Capitol .
“ From day forward , ” Mr. Gore said time , “ every member body must ask , many Americans listening debates made ? ”
Since day , C-Span debuted four employees , network become mainstay American politics . We spoke Susan Swain , one C-Span ’ two chief executives , birth network , Washington ’ initial resistance caught camera network adapted social media age .
This interview Ms. Swain , joined C-Span three years started , edited brevity clarity .
In moment Al Gore approached lectern House chamber C-Span went live , changed American politics ?
The fact people could actually see elected representatives living room — phones — fundamental change . In past , people might pull lever every two years member Congress , super engaged , might read newsletter came mail go occasional town hall meeting .
This meant time interested , could watch member Congress say . Prior television Congress , time members really got attention big names like Kennedy something outrageous , either positively negatively , member leadership .
Initially , lot resistance Washington idea C-Span broadcasting House floor debates . And Senate ’ allow C-Span another seven years . Why resistance ?
Members concerns cameras would swinging around taking pictures members focused attentively debates — heaven forbid — closing eyes second . Or today , perhaps might sending tweet .
One ways finally came bear created compromise members could live . The compromise House Representatives , speaker ’ office , would control cameras floor House . All rest Congress , press conferences hearings , ’ C-Span news organizations covering independently .
Every time ’ change speaker sent letter saying : ‘ Now ’ time . Allow C-Span journalistic organizations put cameras side side. ’ That argument continues go nowhere .
Were politicians self-conscious ’ appear camera ?
I think concern ’ control picture . The Senate finally acquiesced ’ classic story American politics .
The House coming people ’ living rooms via C-Span regularly nightly news could picked regularly nightly stories House . Television loves pictures , would stories House . The Senate becoming concerned becoming second-tier citizen Congress .
The person really instrumental Senator Robert Byrd West Virginia , one old-line members much institutionalist much concerned Senate would change . He went home West Virginia speak introduced West Virginia , home state , speaker House . And ’ big shock white hair , then-Speaker House Tip O ’ Neill . And brought home . So convinced recalcitrant members , vote C-Span went June 1986 .
What one significant memories time C-Span ?
The day Challenger shuttle exploded televising live , I believe I air shuttle going . And became clear watched picture shuttle major catastrophe .
We sat watched long NASA took pictures , story began unfold . Then opened phone lines . There incredible outpouring around country people witnessing absolute tragedy , human tragedy also technological tragedy unfold front eyes .
C-Span given politicians platform connect directly constituents , social media . Is C-Span still relevant ?
C-Span ’ relevance comes form events cover every day within minutes televise , digitized stored video archives . It 250,000 hours political video ’ covered since 1987 .
That means member Congress pull clip hearing send constituents . It also means people social media late-night comedians immediate access .
I think people 20s younger , experience C-Span social media , late-night comedians . The creation video library 1987 every bit significant original creation C-Span .
C-Span long fought cameras allowed Supreme Court chamber . What chances ’ succeed ?
I feel little bit like ’ Sisyphus pushing rock hill . What documented years people nominated Supreme Court go committee hearings expressing open mind concept , get inside chamber nine , manage convinced others would detrimental institution .
We keep hoping generations change younger appointees come familiar media even social media , attitude change . But institution continues prevail .
Follow Julia Jacobs Twitter : @ juliarebeccaj .



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Benjamin Mueller
LONDON — Britain ’ tottering efforts leave European Union remained impasse Thursday allies Prime Minister Theresa May tried keep deal alive face unbending opposition .
The deal , already defeated twice Parliament , given new life Wednesday Mrs. May promised Conservative Party colleagues hard-line supporters leaving bloc would step passed , let someone else take next stage talks Brussels process known Brexit .
[ Who could Britain ’ next prime minister ? Here contenders . ]
But even offer resign enough assuage hard-line Conservatives putative allies Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland , D.U.P. , hate deal .
So government tried new tack Thursday : Ministers said would disassemble Mrs. May ’ deal two parts — one called withdrawal agreement , political declaration — ask Parliament vote Friday first .
The withdrawal agreement outlines terms Britain ’ exit European Union , political declaration deals tangled question future relationship bloc .
The basics Brexit , troubled plan Britain quit European Union .
The speaker House Commons , John Bercow , said would allow Parliament vote plan changed substantially since rejected resoundingly — twice — Thursday said government met test .
Ministers pitching vote pro-Brexit hard-liners last opportunity secure Britain ’ exit European Union coming months , lest pro-Europeans Parliament take control try frustrate Brexit force longer delay .
Ministers also hoped date vote — March 29 , originally scheduled day Britain ’ exit — would put symbolic pressure pro-Brexit Conservatives swallow objections back Mrs. May .
But withdrawal agreement contains contentious pieces Mrs. May ’ plan .
Among so-called backstop least temporarily binds Britain , greater extent , Northern Ireland European trading rules avoid customs checks historically contentious border Ireland , part European Union , Northern Ireland , part United Kingdom .
Unionists Northern Ireland reject backstop believe would create regulatory differences Northern Ireland rest United Kingdom , putting union risk .
And British news media reports late Thursday said unionists intended vote Mrs. May ’ plan Friday , considerably narrowing prime minister ’ path victory .
There hope among Conservatives splitting Mrs. May ’ plan two would strengthen case opposition Labour lawmakers , whose main objections political declaration withdrawal agreement .
But Labour leaders reacted angrily idea Thursday , noting Mrs. May previously said two pieces plan inextricably linked .
Keir Starmer , senior Labour official , warned Thursday splitting “ would leave us blindest blindfold Brexits. ” He referring Labour ’ fear , Parliament passed part Mrs. May ’ plan prime minister resigned , hard-line pro-Brexit politician like Boris Johnson would take shape crucial next stage negotiations .
Stephen Doughty , Labour member Parliament , said , “ This looks like trickery highest order . ”
Confusion swirled day Parliament government ’ plans , ministers leaving lawmakers dark would voting Friday late afternoon .
At time , anti-Brexit lawmakers working behind scenes pick alternate plans put Parliament Monday , case Mrs. May ’ deal pass .
The anti-Brexit lawmakers buoyed votes Parliament Wednesday night catalog proposals clashed Mrs. May ’ .
Those included once-radical ideas like holding second public vote Brexit revoking Britain ’ decision leave altogether , well Brexit plans would see Britain keep closer ties Europe Mrs. May ’ proposal envisioned .
The votes represented first time two years Brexit negotiations Parliament allowed express feelings alternate plans , lawmakers hoped would show path compromise .
But chagrin Mrs. May ’ opponents , eight alternate plans failed muster majority , leading British newspaper The Guardian run headline front page Thursday : “ No . No . No . No . No . No . No . No . ”
Some proposals got close . A plan customs union Britain European Union lost six votes . ( Mr. Bercow said tallying error originally led say eight-vote margin . )
And option holding another referendum test Britons ’ views leaving bloc attracted support expected : 268 members voted favor , 295 .
The result proposal second referendum , coming weekend hundreds thousands people marched London another vote five million signed petition asking cancel Brexit , sign views anti-Brexit politicians grown intense process drags .
The nonbinding votes set stage another round debate Parliament Monday , menu alternate options whittled politicians given second chance coalesce behind new plan .
If Mrs. May ’ withdrawal agreement passes Friday , Parliament would meet European Union ’ deadline completing Brexit process extracting Britain bloc May 22 .
If , Britain could crash bloc without deal April 12 analysts say would calamitous exit , could ask longer extension .
Mrs. May ’ offer resign another reminder , anxiety Britain Brexit , Conservative Party politics still dictated large degree members ’ leadership ambitions .
Pro-Brexit politicians like Mr. Johnson long angling take Mrs. May , chance sooner rather later seemed enough many back months fierce opposition deal .
Mr. Johnson said Mrs. May ’ deal strapped “ suicide vest ” around country . Another hard-line pro-Brexit lawmaker , Jacob Rees-Mogg , said prime minister ’ plan would turn Britain “ slave state . ”
On Wednesday , said would back deal .



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Jim Tankersley Patricia Cohen
WASHINGTON — The longest government shutdown United States history resulted “ shocking ” number taxpayers ’ calls Internal Revenue Service going unreturned left languish hold unusually long periods , according government audit released Tuesday .
The audit , office National Taxpayer Advocate , found five million pieces mail went unanswered 87,000 amended tax returns processed shutdown , thousands I.R.S . workers furloughed working without pay .
The issues especially acute since followed significant changes tax code — ushered President Trump ’ $ 1.5 trillion tax overhaul — left many people questions filing returns .
The problems continued even shutdown , audit found . In week ended Feb. 2 , shortly agency employees returned jobs , fewer half calls I.R.S. ’ accounts-management lines answered , compared nearly 90 percent week last year . The typical hold time callers increased 17 minutes four minutes 2018 .
There similar frustrations called agency ’ so-called balance-due line hopes making payment arrangements taxes owed . Fewer 7 percent calls answered , typical wait stretched 80 minutes .
I.R.S . officials said reviewing taxpayer advocate ’ findings .
“ We continuing assess impact shutdown various operations across agency remain proud many I.R.S . employees risen resulting challenges , ” agency said statement . “ The I.R.S . committed continue making improvements across information technology , tax enforcement taxpayer service operations . ”
Data released agency last week showed Americans filed 12 percent fewer returns Feb. 2 , compared point 2018 , I.R.S . processed 26 percent fewer returns . The agency given indication — Tuesday ’ statement otherwise — might consider pushing back April ’ tax filing deadline order account shutdown-related snags .
The taxpayer advocate ’ audit focus solely shutdown ’ impact reflected effort office , led Nina E. Olson , capture typical taxpayer experience dealing I.R.S . The audit said many Americans ’ feelings process could boiled two words : “ extreme frustration . ”
The audit found policy change made Trump administration intended simplify tax-filing process — creation “ postcard size ” 1040 form — made filing difficult new form include much information many taxpayers need complete returns .
“ The new schedules force taxpayers cross-reference transfer data credits , deductions income , increasing potential errors occur since tax information dispersed many pages needs tracked reported different schedules forms , ” report says .
The problems became apparent 35-day shutdown , ended Jan. 25 , underscored agency ’ deeper flaws , including reliance 1960s-era technology , audit found . The systems contain official record taxpayer accounts oldest federal government .
“ For last 25 years I.R.S . tried — unable — replace , ” audit says , citing budgetary constraints .
The outdated systems deprive I.R.S . comprehensive view taxpayers ’ accounts , hampering agency ’ ability properly identify targeted outreach , collections audits .
Inadequate financing primary cause agency ’ failings , audit found . Congress long beat I.R.S. , routinely condemning performance cutting budget . For example , money technology improvements 2018 fiscal year reduced 62 percent , $ 110 million , year .
Taxpayers called I.R.S . last fall advice new tax law would affect frequently told “ tax law personnel time due budgetary cuts ” disconnected , audit found . Part reason decision agency answer tax law questions three half months January tax filing day .
A lack information also meant vast majority taxpayers eligible use free software file returns electronically take advantage program . Of 106 million taxpayers could qualify free program , fewer 2.5 million use .
Because editing error , earlier version article referred imprecisely 62 percent reduction financing Internal Revenue Service 2018 fiscal year . It applied technology improvements specifically , general improvements .


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported
By Dan Bilefsky
MONTREAL — Canadian diplomats posted Cuba suing government , claiming failed protect respond robustly mysterious illness acquired stationed Cuba .
The illness , known Havana Syndrome , affected dozens American Canadian diplomats posted Cuba , come symptoms like memory loss , sleep disturbance nosebleeds , saying heard strange high-pitched sound .
The suit , filed week federal court Toronto , says Canadian government slow respond provide sufficient medical treatment diplomats children targeted 2017 strange “ debilitating attacks ” resulted brain injuries without evident physical trauma .
Paul Miller , lawyer representing 14 diplomats , spouses children suing , compared attack preceded illnesses “ science fiction horror film . ”
He said plaintiffs seeking 28 million Canadian dollars damages .
“ It tragedy diplomats kids lifelong trauma attacks , ” said .
The plaintiffs identified pseudonyms “ sensitivities related work , nature injuries concerns expressed Canada relating , ” according suit .
The murky circumstances illness drawn international speculation . Neither United States Canada determined cause , leading speculation kind microwave weapon could involved .
Last month , Canadian government said would withdraw half diplomatic staff Cuba another employee fell ill condition , said affected 14 Canadian employees , spouses dependents .
So far , 26 Americans affected similar illnesses , according State Department .
Speaking reporters Washington Wednesday evening , Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland declined comment specifics case . But said met diplomats affected , health safety priority .
“ It ’ privilege serve Canada around world , ’ also really hard , ’ something whole families , ” said . “ I ’ really concerned , Canada ’ utmost sympathy support . ”
One Canadian career diplomat party suit , said family ’ lives turned upside-down . The diplomat , requested anonymity still worked government , said stationed Cuba 2017 suddenly fell ill debilitating headaches , initially attributed stress .
After hearing American cases Havana Syndrome , said connected symptoms high-pitched noises coming backyard .
She said 10-year-old daughter affected well , waking heavy nosebleed later suffering headaches forced miss school .
She said Canadian government waited months seeking treatment diplomats prevented warning colleagues posted Cuba .
The diplomat said emotional trauma suffering mysterious illness exacerbated feeling government believe .
The suit contends , despite knowing risks similar attacks American diplomats 2016 , Canada continued send diplomats Havana . It accused government playing seriousness situation , leaving victims “ contend rumors faking . ”
The plaintiffs also contend government restricted information could share doctors , tried stop University Pennsylvania Center Brain Injury Repair , studying syndrome , testing Canadians .
Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************It ’ another sign President Trump ’ weakness .
**************By David Leonhardt
**************Opinion Columnist
**************This article part David Leonhardt ’ newsletter . You sign receive weekday .
**************President Trump ’ emergency declaration border wall based obvious falsehood : There emergency U.S.-Mexico border . And goaded declaration Sean Hannity , episode makes mockery federal government .
**************But relative scheme Trump ’ misbehavior , emergency declaration ’ rank high . It ’ corruption obstruction justice . It ’ attempt undermine America ’ alliance Western Europe . And ’ even matter much immigration policy . If ’ trying calibrate Trump-related outrage , take deep breath morning .
**************“ A presidential declaration emergency order construct wall would stupid , ” Lawfare ’ Quinta Jurecic wrote . “ It would wasteful . It would test limits president ’ authority law question . But would , , step toward authoritarianism. ” ( Here ’ longer version case . )
**************[ Listen “ The Argument ” podcast every Thursday morning , Ross Douthat , Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt . ]
**************“ This challenged courts immediately , pretty easy throw thing , ” Neal Katyal , former acting solicitor general , predicted Lawrence O ’ Donnell ’ MSNBC show last night .
**************“ Trump ’ fake emergency sign weakness strength , ” tweeted The New Yorker ’ John Cassidy . “ He ran wall , two years Republican control Congress , still ’ get financed . Weak president . ”
**************And Philip Klein The Washington Examiner made conservative case declaration : “ The hope limited government conservatives emergency declaration gets quickly enjoined , eventually nixed , federal court . At least , silver lining would legal precedent would set president attempt end around Congress . ”
**************The China rivalry
**************“ I ’ always thought Americans would come together realized faced dangerous foreign foe , ” colleague David Brooks writes . “ And lo behold , one : China . It ’ become increasingly clear China grave economic , technological intellectual threat United States world order . ”
**************I agree United States complacent geopolitical challenge China poses .
**************If subscriber newsletter , subscribe . You also join Twitter ( @ DLeonhardt ) Facebook .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram .
**************David Leonhardt former Washington bureau chief Times , founding editor The Upshot head The 2020 Project , future Times newsroom . He 2011 Pulitzer Prize commentary , columns financial crisis . @ DLeonhardt • Facebook
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Why American conservatism Trump may learn like state .
**************By Ross Douthat
**************Opinion Columnist
**************Since conservatism became movement 1950s , American right understood defending written American Constitution unwritten one well — kind cultural social constitution , deeply rooted national history , checks balances official political system help sustain .
**************Under constitution America three branches government great diversity power centers — religious corporate , familial philanthropic . Under constitution important institutions national life ’ political ones ; ’ institutions civil society , flourished — conservative argument goes — precisely government kept within limits , state ’ co-opted crushed rivals influence power .
**************Thus conservatives preach virtues “ limited government , ” ’ Herbert Hoover ’ rugged individual imagine defending . They envision larger communitarian panoply — civic associations , religious denominations , charities universities private schools — needs protection jealousy centralizing state . And tend assume keeping American corporation embedded communitarian system better way balance productivity innovation public-spiritedness trying regulate micromanage businesses good behavior .
**************If wanted summarize intellectual uncertainties conservatives Trump era , could say right trying figure whether unwritten American constitution imagines defending still exists . And ’ , ’ failing , whether means “ limited government ” slogan strategy increasingly irrelevant comes shaping society conservatives would like America .
**************The latter argument Donald Trump implicitly pressed optimistic opponents 2016 primaries . They defenders American dream conservatives long defined , dark , conspiratorial tones businessman rival raised set uncomfortable questions . Is America still nation thriving local communities energetic civic life ? Is America still deeply religious country , strong churches growing denominations ? Are American businessmen basically public spirited , eager compete equal terms government removes heavy hand , natural allies political movement wedded patriotism religion ?
**************For years conservative critics sociologists intellectuals acknowledging answers might — country ’ once-rich associational civic religious life declining dissolving , corporate America embraces conservative slogans keep taxes low unions weak otherwise seems post-patriotic performatively woke , “ silent majority ” hardworking , pious , culturally conservative blue-collar families essentially defunct .
**************Many best conservative books last decade , “ Coming Apart ” Charles Murray “ The Fractured Republic ” Yuval Levin , describe emerging America ’ much resemble Tocquevillian family-church-community landscape familiar past conservative descriptions American exceptionalism . The latest example “ Alienated America : Why Some Places Thrive While Others Collapse ” Tim Carney , mix sociology shoe-leather reporting convincingly situates rise Trump context Middle America ’ communitarian collapse .
**************But accounts like Carney ’ acknowledge role economic forces — globalization , trade , deindustrialization — dissolution family community , also tend insist , contra liberals new socialist vanguard ( also contra Trump ) , cultural collapse ’ primarily driven economic policy decisions ’ reversed public policies programs . Instead tend suggest state interventions often replace community instead strengthening cast communitarian revival necessarily local project , government play best supporting , ’ t-make-matters-worse kind role .
**************These kind arguments still continuity , , basic conservative posture last generations . But also increasingly partisans rupture right , loose group state-power conservatives hint Tocquevillian dream dying cause “ limited government ” increasingly irrelevant — turn would require conservatives become comfortable using power state , engaged centralized policymaking specific social cultural ends mind .
**************This argument visible controversy surrounding Tucker Carlson ’ monologue month ago , stirred libertarian backlash calling Republicans use government policy make American life friendlier families , particularly single-earner households . It also informs difference Carney ’ book smart right-of-center volume moment , Oren Cass ’ “ The Once Future Worker. ” The two authors share certain common ground , end Carney concludes “ current economic social ills … solved even significantly ameliorated president , central government , ” Cass ’ whole thesis wiser policymaking could make big difference unhappy heartlanders Carney profiles .
**************But fullest case rupture , declaring “ era limited government , ” offered two recent essays conservative intellectual journals — Dan McCarthy ’ “ A New Conservative Agenda ” First Things , Gladden Pappin ’ “ Toward Party State ” American Affairs . Both envision conservatism oriented less toward state-as-enemy state-as-danger much toward state-as-shaper state-as-harmonizer . For instance , McCarthy ’ account economic nationalism Donald Trump transmuted something less inchoate effective :
**************Economic nationalism tariffs . It less “ economic ” “ nationalism ” — , takes account different needs different walks life regions country , serving whole serving parts drawing ­together . In past , challenge harmonize farmers , urban capital labor . The challenge balance groups postindustrial classes well , strengthen productive economy largely fictional economy administrators clerks . All sake prosperity , raw dollar terms , national economy provides basis healthy culture citizens families flourish .
**************Pappin makes similar argument political coalitions , especially right , adapt current challenge “ illiberal ” “ post-liberal ” forces , populist socialist :
**************Rather asking question “ What conservatives/progressives ? ” considerable advances made certain purely practical considerations : “ How integrity national political community assured ? ” “ How commercial activity technological development continue turned toward common good , toward strategic advantage ? ” “ What reins power , , state , ensure common good citizens ? ”
**************The likely answers “ practical ” questions , Pappin contends , require conservatives make practical “ use administrative state ” right-wing ends , rather constantly returning “ plaintive , nostalgic counterproductive calls abolition . ”
**************A hostile reader essays , libertarian liberal , might respond vision right-wing governments seek reshape culture mediate classes resembles nothing much early-20th century fascism . A sympathetic reader would say , plenty space state-friendly conservative politics movement conservatism Mussolini , McCarthy Pappin envisioning might better described blend American Hamiltonian tradition 21st-century update French Gaullism .
**************And subtle reader might say ’ trying provide theory move Republican Party power tends make anyway — last two G.O.P . presidents , sense , “ big government conservatives ” — far without strategy , seriousness self-consciousness required make project success .
**************I enough skepticism efficacy state power uncertain project succeed . But post-Trump conservatives likely drawn state-power conservatism theoretical ambition sense political necessity .
**************The earlier conservative self-understanding , right defending nongovernmental institutions power state , tacitly depended assumption many nongovernmental institutions would friendly conservative values . But civil society decayed recent decades , remaining power centers also become increasingly left-wing .
**************Already-liberal institutions — universities , Hollywood , big foundations mass media — uniformly allied left even recent past . Corporate America happily donates Republicans fears Bernie Sanders presidency , cultural issues big business courts younger customers progressive lobbying propaganda . In religion , Catholicism Pope Francis aspires ( scandals permitting ) ease way leftward well , leaving evangelical Christianity isolated bastion little culture-shaping power .
**************Yet conservatives still win White House Congress , means one power center hope control one notionally organized limit — administrative state .
**************If assume people tend seek power , devise justifications seeking power , plausibly exercised , state-power conservatives may need strongest intellectual arguments change way right thinks state . Instead limited government conservatism may give way attempt improve Trumpism clearer blueprints smarter cadres reason changes often happen political ideology — people whose thinking changing feel ’ choice .
**************The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTOpinion ) Instagram , join Facebook political discussion group , Voting While Female .
**************Ross Douthat Opinion columnist The Times since 2009 . He author several books , recently , “ To Change Church : Pope Francis Future Catholicism. ” You follow Twitter : @ DouthatNYT
**************You follow Twitter : @ DouthatNYT
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Eurotunnel sued Department Transport handling contracts provide extra freight capacity .
**************By Amie Tsang
**************LONDON — Add list headaches faced Britain ’ government frantically tries prepare Brexit : 33 million pound ( $ 44 million ) payment settle lawsuit brought Eurotunnel , company operates rail link France Britain .
**************Eurotunnel sued Britain ’ Department Transport handling contracts provide extra transportation capacity event country leaves European Union without deal place .
**************The company accused British government limiting competition open bidding contracts , worth millions dollars , according court filings .
**************In December , Britain ’ government signed contracts DFDS , Danish shipping company , Brittany Ferries , French company , supply extra freight capacity bring essential goods medicines country event no-deal Brexit .
**************The government also signed contract Seaborne Freight , ferry company later found BBC run ferry service . The deal came heavy criticism , one lawmaker calling “ shell company. ” The firm also ridiculed echoing website terms conditions business specializing takeout meals . Seaborne Freight pulled contract .
**************The government settled case Eurotunnel avoid prolonged legal tussle tries make arrangements March 29 , country scheduled exit European Union .
**************Government departments Britain ’ businesses furiously preparing case country leaves European Union without agreement setting terms separation . There fears lack clarity port arrangements could lead gridlock roads problems getting food medicine people Britain .
**************“ We taking steps ensure supply chains continue function , whatever circumstances departure , mitigation place avoid disruption borders , ” Stephen Barclay , Brexit secretary , said statement Friday .
**************Chris Grayling , transport secretary , added , “ While disappointing Eurotunnel chose take legal action contracts place ensure smooth supply vital medicines , I pleased agreement ensure Channel Tunnel ready post-Brexit world . ”
**************Eurotunnel agreed withdraw case take unspecified actions improve security traffic flow .
**************“ Eurotunnel concluded out-of-court agreement secretary state transport ensure Channel Tunnel remains preferred route vital goods travel E.U . U.K. , ” company said .
**************​Amie Tsang general assignment business reporter based London , covered variety topics , including gender pay gap , aviation London Fatberg . @ amietsang
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Good Monday . Want email ? Sign .
**************Bipartisan negotiations forge border security deal broke yesterday , potentially setting federal government another shutdown ahead Friday deadline .
**************What happened ? “ The impasse appears center Democratic demands limit number unauthorized immigrants already country could detained Immigration Customs Enforcement officers , according aides familiar talks , ” according NYT . Republicans wanted exception cap criminals ; Democrats said proposed 16,500-bed cap left enough room .
**************What ’ stake ? The last shutdown , longest U.S. history , cost American economy $ 11 billion tanked President Trump ’ political standing public . Another shutdown could cause economic harm , hitting I.R.S . tax season starts .
**************What ’ next ? Lawmakers could pass another short-term spending bill , though many reluctant punt final budget agreement . Meanwhile , Mr. Trump preparing hold rally supporters El Paso . ( Many city ’ happy . ) But really two choices , according Axios : shut government declare national emergency get border wall money , “ options horrible . ”
**************The Amazon founder risked embarrassment going public said extortion attempt The National Enquirer . So far , ’ scoring big points ( “ Saturday Night Live ” jokes aside ) .
**************His disclosure gotten results . Federal prosecutors reviewing extortion claim , NYT reports , citing unnamed sources . If The Enquirer ’ parent company broke law , would violation nonprosecution agreement paying hush money help President Trump 2016 . ( A lawyer publisher ’ chairman said yesterday company committed crime . )
**************And ’ winning P.R . battle . At time billionaires reviled , Maureen Dowd NYT writes , “ richest dude earth managed come traumatic week inspiring admiration. ” ( Glenn Greenwald The Intercept counters would odd Mr. Bezos gain pity , given Amazon “ critical partner U.S. government building ever-more invasive , militarized sprawling surveillance state . ” )
**************Where The Enquirer go wrong ? Danny Westneat The Seattle Times points picked fight head company powerful got Seattle change tax policies $ 3 billion tax incentives New York office space . “ You ’ pressure Amazon . It goes way around , ” Mr. Westneat writes .
**************But Mr. Bezos could still lose . Jon Swartz Barron ’ notes Amazon shares fell 2.6 percent Friday . “ His hands-on management considered crucial success company anything pulls attention away day-to-day management least concern investors , ” Mr. Swartz writes .
**************Fears Britain ’ withdrawal E.U . could roil economies officially spread across Atlantic .
**************Wall Street warned Brexit ’ impact . “ With less seven weeks go U.K. due leave E.U. , several S & P 500 groups first time put Wall Street formal notice risks London Brussels fail reach divorce deal , ” FT reports . Companies like Lockheed Martin , McCormick , Expedia Cadbury spoken .
**************Driving concern fears depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable Britain , costs imported British goods could rise . There ’ also fear broader effect Brexit global political economic stability .
**************American banks also nervous . “ While U.S. banks want Britain maintain closest possible ties EU Brexit , U.K. banks insurers anxious ’ become beholden new laws made Brussels , ” Bloomberg reports .
**************More Brexit news : The E.U. ’ chief Brexit negotiator , Michel Barnier , said “ reopen ” existing Brexit deal , open reworking political declaration accompanies . The British government trying secure extra two weeks win concessions Europe promising lawmakers another vote Britain ’ withdrawal options . And Prime Minister Theresa May also offered concessions opposing Labour Party break current impasse Parliament .
**************Americans getting rude surprise : Their refunds appear getting smaller , despite President Trump Republicans passing huge set tax cuts year ago .
**************How big drop ? “ The average refund $ 1,865 8.4 percent smaller average refund period last year , ” Reuters reports , citing figures I.R.S . Heather Long WaPo adds number people receiving refund fallen nearly 25 percent far . ( The I.R.S . warns read much figures , part data — result delayed processing due government shutdown . )
**************Why happening ? It ’ actually sign Americans paying taxes . “ People generally got piece tax cut last year gradually form lower withholding paychecks , ” Joseph Rosenberg Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center told WaPo .
**************People angry nonetheless . The WaPo reports : “ People already taken social media , using hashtag # GOPTaxScam , vent anger . Many blame President Trump Republicans shrinking refunds . Some Twitter even said ’ vote Trump seeing refunds slashed . ”
**************The last class tech companies gained valuations $ 1 billion , including Uber Airbnb , remade entire industries . Don ’ expect next wave nearly flashy , according Erin Griffith NYT .
**************Who ? They names like Benchling , Checkr Zola , many create software specific industries — including data analysis systems farmers background checks gig workers .
**************Why ’ exciting predecessors ? Ms. Griffith points Uber , Airbnb peers “ built global empires simply taking existing businesses — like taxis , food delivery hotels — making mobile. ” Easy opportunities disrupt traditional businesses dried , forcing new companies find smaller niches .
**************But ’ underestimate potential . “ Maybe ’ sexy companies first wave , ” venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded NYT . But Anand Sanwal data provider CB Insights said still growing fast , adding , “ If one high-momentum companies , investors going beating door much interest investing next big winner . ”
**************Christine Lagarde , managing director International Monetary Fund , warned yesterday global economy “ growing slowly anticipated . ”
**************She sees four big risks . “ Trade tensions tariff escalations , financial tightening , uncertainty related Brexit outcome spillover impact accelerated slowdown Chinese economy ” “ clouds ” horizon , told World Government Summit Dubai .
**************And could spell trouble . “ When many clouds , ” added , takes one lighting bolt “ start storm . ”
**************But I.M.F . thinks Fed playing smart . “ The fact Fed put pause raising rates going provide lot support economy , ” Gita Gopinath , I.M.F. ’ top economist , told FT. “ We endorse Fed view data-driven approach . ”
**************President Trump expected sign executive order today meant spur development regulation artificial intelligence , Cade Metz NYT writes .
**************The news : Mr. Trump introduce “ American A.I . Initiative , ” aims better educate workers field , improve access cloud computing services data needed build A.I . systems , promote cooperation foreign powers .
**************Context : “ A.I . experts across industry , academia government long called Trump administration make development artificial intelligence major priority , ” Mr. Metz writes , adding “ concerned China could surpass United States ” development technologies .
**************But : “ The order set aside funds A.I . research development , ” Mr. Metz adds , “ administration provided details put new policies effect . ”
**************Steve Mandel stepped head hedge fund Lone Pine Capital .
**************Among reasons Santander rescinded offer hire investment banker Andrea Orcel ? Reportedly desire attend World Economic Forum Davos , Switzerland .
**************Kristina Salen , former chief financial officer shopping site Etsy , joined Moda Operandi , luxury fashion start-up , C.F.O .
**************The English Premier League looking America successor C.E.O. , Richard Scudamore . British candidates appear uninterested job .
**************Deals
**************• The aluminum-parts maker Arconic plans break . ( WSJ )
**************• Apollo Global Management reportedly near deal buy Cox Enterprises ’ 14 regional TV stations $ 3 billion . ( Reuters )
**************• The medical equipment maker Smith & Nephew reportedly held talks buy NuVasive , maker medical instruments spinal surgeries , $ 3 billion . ( FT )
**************• TPG Capital closed seventh Asia-focused private equity fund $ 4.6 billion . ( Reuters )
**************Politics policy
**************• Democratic lawmakers proposing steep new taxes superrich — public loves . ( NYT )
**************• Senator Michael Bennet , Democrat Colorado potential presidential candidate , says cutting private health insurance part Medicare “ bad opening offer. ” ( Politico )
**************• President Trump succeeded dividing Democrats warning socialism . ( Hill )
**************• The biggest star Clive Davis ’ exclusive pre-Grammys gala ? Speaker Nancy Pelosi . ( AP )
**************Trade
**************• Trade talks U.S. China resume today Beijing . ( Straits Times )
**************• White House officials reportedly discussed summit meeting President Trump President Xi Jinping China Mar-a-Lago next month resolve trade fight . ( Axios )
**************• The trade agreement replace Nafta faces uphill climb Congress . ( Axios )
**************Tech
**************• Some Amazon executives reportedly reconsidering decision set campus New York , opponents think might bluff . ( WSJ , Recode )
**************• Huawei threatened sue Czech Republic country ’ cybersecurity agency rescind warning risk company poses nation ’ critical infrastructure . ( NYT )
**************• Sprint accused AT & T false advertising , saying rival incorrectly telling customers receiving 5G data service . ( WSJ )
**************• Tesla may finally delivering Model 3s , ’ keep servicing . ( WSJ )
**************Best rest
**************• A new activist hedge fund , Impactive Capital , rarity : It ’ female- minority-led . ( WSJ )
**************• Household staples , diapers baking soda , may get expensive . ( WSJ )
**************• U.S. colleges raised $ 46.7 billion year ended last June , led Harvard $ 1.4 billion . ( Bloomberg )
**************• Here ’ rundown 100 sustainable U.S. companies , according Barron ’ . ( Barron ’ )
**************• How Fed ’ recent U-turn rates cascaded global markets . ( NYT )
**************Thanks reading ! We ’ see tomorrow .
**************We ’ love feedback . Please email thoughts suggestions business @ nytimes.com .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Ivan Nechepurenko
**************MOSCOW — Russian lawmakers , moving restrict freedom speech , passed bills Thursday would introduce jail terms fines insulting government online spreading so-called fake news .
**************The bills seen effort pre-empt control public criticism Russia ’ prolonged economic stagnation pushes Kremlin ’ approval ratings . They reflect nearly two-decade-long project President Vladimir V. Putin put information flow state control , push made difficult growth internet .
**************The new measures await final passage upper chamber parliament Mr. Putin ’ signature . He expressed support restrictions insulting state online .
**************One set bills passed lower house , Duma , would subject private individuals fines $ 3,000 15 days administrative arrest insulting government online . Individuals would face fines $ 6,000 posting termed fake news .
**************Another bill would demand news media outlets websites remove information shows “ clear disrespect ” society , state symbols , Russian Constitution government . Internet service providers website owners would one day remove insults , face complete block .
**************Lawmakers also passed bill would force websites immediately remove “ false , publicly important information ” government watchdog deems threat public order .
**************The measures stipulate clearly would considered fake news . The authors said interviews would determined state prosecutors government communications watchdog .
**************Critics said measures loosely defined allow government block information online finds undesirable .
**************With bills ’ wording “ vague possible , ” Vladimir A. Ryzhkov , opposition politician , said Facebook , “ create possibilities widest possible arbitrariness law enforcement . As result , society ’ trust government fall public atmosphere poisoned . ”
**************As Russians switch television — largely controlled state Kremlin allies — internet main source information , government made keeping web control top priority .
**************In February , lawmakers proposed creating infrastructure separate Russia global internet altogether . Last year , state banned Telegram , popular messaging app .
**************The Russian government opened assault so-called fake news even United States accused Moscow engaging practice , disinformation campaign intended sway 2016 American presidential election .
**************The new bills passed Russians ’ trust government agencies Mr. Putin particular steadily declining . For first time since annexation Crimea 2014 , number Russians say country heading wrong direction surpassed say opposite . The finding came poll conducted January independent pollster Levada .
**************The share people approve Mr. Putin ’ work president declined 20 percentage points since reached post-Crimea peak 86 percent 2015 .
**************Nikolai F. Uskov , editor Forbes Russia magazine frequent commentator , said bills government ’ “ weapon media . ”
**************“ The government clearly getting ready protest moods grow reflected publications social networks media , ” said , speaking Ekho Moskvy , radio station . “ I ’ think save state , ” added , “ wave anger sweep away restrictions . ”
**************Follow Ivan Nechepurenko Twitter : @ INechepurenko .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By David Zucchino Fahim Abed
**************KABUL , Afghanistan — Afghanistan ’ coalition government fired Tuesday commissioners directed fraud-tainted parliamentary elections last fall , country prepares presidential race summer watches , leaders sidelines , peace talks unfold Americans Taliban .
**************The move follows push opposition politicians postpone election form interim government , part peace deal , could include Taliban . President Ashraf Ghani , fumed government ’ exclusion American-Taliban talks , insisted election held time .
**************The firings , came series meetings government , civil society groups political parties , portrayed badly needed consensus electoral reform . The commissioners called dismissal political decision officials hope serve new government .
**************The election already pushed back April July . The panel behind decision , Independent Election Commission , one two whose members removed Tuesday .
**************Replacement commissioners named Mr. Ghani coalition partner , Abdullah Abdullah , charged preparing presidential election feature men candidates .
**************Mr. Ghani said central government strong mandate negotiate behalf country . The Taliban , dealing directly Americans , refused include Afghan government consider illegitimate .
**************Zalmay Khalilizad , leader American delegation , said last week hoped secure peace deal July election . He said last month United States Taliban agreed principle framework peace deal .
**************The Afghan election commission widely accused sowing confusion disarray October parliamentary elections , three years late tainted accusations vote-rigging , bribery incompetence . Winners certified third 250 seats Parliament .
**************The attorney general ’ office prosecuted 313 people accused violations including forging selling election stickers national ID cards needed cast vote .
**************In statement late Tuesday , office said 12 commissioners two election bodies barred leaving country , investigators appointed look charges abuse authority .
**************The firings set legal confrontation , dismissed members saying move violated election law .
**************“ The amendment election law presidential decree president also candidate Constitution , ” commissioners said joint statement . “ This political decision , legal constitutional one . ”
**************Mr. Ghani ’ deputy spokesman , Shahhusain Murtazawi , said election results remain place . He said protests could lodged second affected commission , called Independent Election Complaint Commission , judicial groups . The head commission ’ secretariat remains place acting director .
**************Given officials administered election fired , roughly 2,000 losing candidates expected protest . If results re-examined canceled , would affect preparations presidential election already behind schedule — assurance required funding place .
**************One losing parliamentary candidate , Fawad Aman , said anyone seated Parliament would remain cloud suspicion . And commissioners punished , said , Afghans could lose faith electoral process refrain voting .
**************“ If dismissed prosecuted , means political game president influence election commissions presidential election , ” Mr. Aman said .
**************Nayim Ayubzada , head Transparent Election Foundation Afghanistan , independent election monitoring group , said firings made hastily government paid little attention legal process addressing fraud accusations .
**************“ We worry decision president candidate may things turn things favor , ” Mr. Ayubzada said . “ If decides hastily election issues , raise questions transparency elections . ”
**************Mr. Ghani Mr. Abdullah appoint new heads members commissions , selected candidates put forward civil society groups political parties within next week .
**************Supporters firings said necessary make commissioners accountable bungling expensive election process secured Afghan forces amid raging war . Each Afghan election , bankrolled international donations , proved least problematic last .
**************The 2014 presidential election fraudulent , two leading candidates claimed victory , nearly tore country apart prompted Western officials step mediators . John Kerry , secretary state , negotiated power-sharing government top two candidates , Mr. Ghani Mr. Abdullah , promise would prioritize election reforms avoid another fiasco .
**************The two men slow make progress reforms , given infighting government war Taliban . Now Mr. Ghani Mr. Abdullah get name new commissioners oversee election peak summer fighting season peace process plays .
**************Those challenges left many Afghans skeptical new commissioners . Mr. Ayubzada , election observer , said doubted presidential election would even held year , process “ overshadowed ongoing peace talks political dealing . ”
**************Mujib Mashal contributed reporting Kandahar , Afghanistan .
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Good Tuesday . Want email ? Sign .
**************Democratic Republican negotiators said last night “ agreement principle ” border security funding could keep federal government open .
**************The deal includes $ 1.38 billion pay 55 miles new fencing , technology staffing border protection . It ’ $ 5.7 billion President Trump demanded build 200-mile wall . Democrats waived demand limits detention capacity immigrants .
**************But ’ guarantee go . The House Senate would vote pact , Mr. Trump would sign . “ I think everyone say , ‘ Good work , ’ ” Representative Kay Granger Texas , one Republican negotiators , said . Still , rally Texas last night , Mr. Trump insisted build wall . And influential Republican commentators like Fox News host Sean Hannity called deal “ garbage compromise . ”
**************The remaining alternatives hugely unattractive . Politico notes potential White House plan redirect unspent federal funds toward wall would “ create firestorm. ” And another government shutdown could hit U.S. economy endanger aviation safety .
**************The British prime minister scheduled update lawmakers later today progress negotiations withdrawing E.U .
**************She big favor ask . Mrs. May focused making changes so-called backstop exit deal , designed prevent hard border Ireland Northern Ireland . She made little headway . Bloomberg explains plan today :
**************• Mrs. May “ update Parliament progress talks E.U . outline motion ’ put M.P.s debate Thursday , office said . ”
**************• She “ expected ask Parliament restate demand remove backstop Withdrawal Agreement promise vote ’ brought renegotiated deal back Parliament Feb. 27 . ”
**************• The aim “ reassure members across House Commons concerned May deliberately running clock risking potentially disastrous no-deal divorce . ”
**************But E.U . still ’ budging . Its chief Brexit negotiator , Michel Barnier , said yesterday “ something give British side . ”
**************Yet Mrs. May could force plan Parliament . Bloomberg explains , though also admits “ lot could go wrong . ”
**************More Brexit news : Britain weakest economic growth six years last year . It signed trade deal Switzerland , biggest since 2016 Brexit referendum . And government sued awarding contract freight shipments no-deal Brexit ferry company boats .
**************The former Fed chairman recently sat Ray Dalio Bridgewater Capital wide-ranging conversation , topics state U.S. principles good government . Don ’ time watch ? Here highlights :
**************On Washington : Mr. Volcker lamented condition U.S. government , repeating past criticisms . “ You ’ got presidents ’ seem mind either personal behavior making outrageous statements , true , ” told Mr. Dalio . “ You Congress ’ unable function effectively . ”
**************On Civil Service : For former Fed chairman , important problem solve make government work appear honorable . “ Public administration ’ bad word , ” told Mr. Dalio , leaving important government departments without effective leaders .
**************What Mr. Volcker : He set Volcker Alliance , meant help schools train future government officials . “ It ’ great trick , ” Mr. Volcker said . “ How get expertise leadership need still respect popular desire ? ”
**************Optimism personal finances ’ high 16 years , according study Gallup .
**************Sixty-nine percent Americans expect better time next year . That “ two percentage points all-time high 71 percent , recorded March 1998 , ” according Gallup . That ’ survey carried Jan. 2 Jan. 10 , middle government shutdown .
**************Half respondents say ’ better year ago . That figure consistently half since 2007 , Gallup says .
**************The optimism hard overstate . “ Only 11 times 109 polls stretching back 1976 least half polled said better financial shape year prior , ” Gallup notes . “ Only 114 polls going back 1977 Americans optimistic personal finances coming year today . ”
**************“ Europe sleepwalking oblivion , people Europe need wake late , ” George Soros writes opinion piece Project Syndicate :
**************• “ Neither leaders ordinary citizens seem understand experiencing revolutionary moment , range possibilities broad , eventual outcome thus highly uncertain . ”
**************• “ The next inflection point elections European Parliament May 2019 . Unfortunately , anti-European forces enjoy competitive advantage balloting . ”
**************• “ The first step defending Europe enemies , internal external , recognize magnitude threat present . The second awaken sleeping pro-European majority mobilize defend values E.U . founded . ”
**************The firm said yesterday would buy Solium Capital , manages stock paid corporate employees , $ 900 million . It ’ biggest deal major Wall Street firm since financial crisis — ’ rationale ?
**************The bank wants millennial wealth . Solium ’ clients include start-ups , like Instacart Stripe , could go public multibillion-dollar valuations — making employees rich .
**************Wall Street approves strategy . Analysts Evercore ISI wrote yesterday Solium gives Morgan Stanley “ real path towards organic growth next generation clients many investors questioning. ” Matthew Klein Barron ’ wrote last week millennials could hold key improving American productivity — wealth .
**************And banks seem newly hungry deals . Days Morgan Stanley ’ acquisition , BB & T agreed buy SunTrust biggest bank merger since 2008 crisis . Banking chiefs seem heartened loosened regulations sector — eager capitalize acquisitions . “ We ’ like , ” James Gorman , Morgan Stanley ’ C.E.O. , told WSJ . ( And JPMorgan Chase reportedly considered buying asset manager WisdomTree , according Bloomberg . )
**************It ’ eight months Mario Draghi ’ finishes nonrenewable term president European Central Bank . Choosing successor important difficult , WSJ reports :
**************• Investors trusted Mr. Draghi , WSJ says , navigate “ toxic mix risks Europe , Brexit trade wars . ”
**************• “ At least five unofficial candidates appear running replace , according European officials : two Frenchmen , two Finns German . The candidates different economic philosophies , clear front-runner . ”
**************• The winner might chosen balance nationalities E.U. ’ leadership , rather purely merit . The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo , chief executive Centre European Policy Studies , Brussels think tank , risks . “ It ’ systemically important job Europe , man controls show , ” said . “ It go badly wrong . ”
**************WSJ reporters scoured fourth-quarter results U.S. companies attempt better understand slowing China ’ economic growth .
**************What found : Many companies “ struggling weaker demand export manufacturers China , pulling back amid fears trade tensions worsen , ” Austen Hufford Theo Francis WSJ report . “ Retailers companies catering Chinese consumers face signs weakness among country ’ growing middle class . They buying fewer cars , phones traveling less . ”
**************The conclusion : “ The indications slowing growth broad , still modest , ” Mr. Hufford Mr. Francis write .
**************Just half PG & E ’ directors stand re-election year utility filed bankruptcy amid California wildfires .
**************Colgate-Palmolive named Noel Wallace , C.O.O. , chief executive , replacing Ian Cook .
**************GV , venture capital arm Alphabet , hired David Schenkein , former C.E.O . Agios Pharmaceuticals , co-head life sciences .
**************Apple named Frank Casanova , longtime iPhone executive , first head marketing augmented reality .
**************Sony appointed Jim Ryan C.E.O . PlayStation business .
**************Deals
**************• Colony Capital , investment firm founded real estate mogul Tom Barrack , explore selling assets activist hedge fund , Blackwells Capital , took stake . ( Colony )
**************• SoftBank ’ Vision Fund led $ 940 million investment Nuro , driverless delivery start-up . ( FT )
**************• Amazon agreed buy Eero , makes wireless routers , advance smart-home ambitions . ( Reuters )
**************• Peloton , makes video-streaming stationary bikes treadmills , reportedly interviewing banks prepare I.P.O . ( WSJ )
**************• DoorDash , delivery start-up , reportedly process raising $ 500 million $ 6 billion valuation . ( WSJ )
**************• Reddit raised $ 150 million Tencent — users fear censorship . ( Verge )
**************Politics policy
**************• President Trump Gov . Andrew Cuomo New York meet today discuss revising cap deductions state local taxes . ( Bloomberg )
**************• Democratic presidential contenders see small donors , rather traditional wealthy backers , test viability 2020 race . ( WaPo )
**************• Contrary popular belief , Mr. Trump ’ presidency hurt America ’ gun lobby . ( NYT editorial )
**************Trade
**************• President Trump reportedly eager meet President Xi Jinping China discuss trade deal . ( Bloomberg )
**************• American tariffs Chinese goods reduced two countries ’ trade imbalance — without helping U.S. companies . ( Axios )
**************• Chinese investments Israeli tech companies raising security concerns . ( WSJ )
**************Tech
**************• What ’ like contractor one Apple ’ less glamorous offices ? Not much fun . ( Bloomberg )
**************• Mars One Ventures , promised one-way trips red planet , bankrupt . ( Verge )
**************• If New York ’ want new Amazon campus , Newark . ( Bloomberg )
**************• Alphabet Microsoft discreetly warning A.I . could harm brands . ( Wired )
**************The Jeff Bezos saga
**************• The American Media Inc. lawyer reportedly sought deal Mr. Bezos ’ private photos Amazon Kindle executive . ( WSJ )
**************• American Media reportedly asked Justice Department whether needed register foreign agent ties Saudi Arabia . ( WSJ )
**************• The WaPo found tricky situation : reporting owner ’ fight The National Enquirer , cause battle . ( NYT )
**************Best rest
**************• Could leveraged loans sink U.S. economy ? ( FT )
**************• For two years , Goldman Sachs bet companies strong balance sheets . Not anymore . ( CNBC )
**************• The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says ’ “ mania ” share buybacks , ’ worried social consequences . ( CNBC )
**************• Toys ‘ R ’ Us planning comeback later year . ( NYT )
**************• Is corporate America headed toward earnings recession ? ( DealBook )
**************Thanks reading ! We ’ see tomorrow .
**************We ’ love feedback . Please email thoughts suggestions business @ nytimes.com .
**************Advertisement
**************China Daily
**************Advertisement
**************Share
**************China ’ opening-up policies led improvements life business .
**************
**************The news editorial staffs The New York Times role post ’ creation .
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************New Zealand ’ prime minister moved swiftly ban weapons mass killing gunman attacked two mosques .
**************By The Editorial Board
**************The editorial board represents opinions board , editor publisher . It separate newsroom Op-Ed section .
**************The murder 50 Muslim worshipers New Zealand , allegedly 28-year-old Australian white supremacist , long scrutinized way violent hatreds spawned staged social media internet . But world learn way Jacinda Ardern , New Zealand ’ prime minister , responded horror .
**************Almost immediately last Friday ’ killings , Ms. Ardern listened constituents ’ outrage declared within days government would introduce new controls military-style weapons Christchurch shooter many mass killers United States used rampages . And delivered .
**************On Thursday , Ms. Ardern announced ban military-style semiautomatic automatic weapons , parts used turn rifles weapons high-capacity ammunition magazines . “ It ’ us , ” said , “ ’ national interest ’ safety . ”
**************Earlier week , told Parliament social media sites must address ease internet used spew hate images violence . “ We simply sit back accept platforms exist said responsibility place published , ” said . “ It case profit , responsibility . ”
**************Ms. Ardern ’ propose immediate measures limit reach Facebook , Twitter internet publishers , ’ obvious could done without trampling freedom speech . But made clear believed social media platforms , like gun manufacturers dealers , bore responsibility carnage visited Christchurch many communities recent years .
**************The new gun proposal require considerable fine-tuning defining becomes law . New Zealand ’ existing laws relatively lenient , large percentage estimated 1.2 million 1.5 million firearms owned 250,000 people registered . It known many become illegal new laws .
**************But display one deranged man weapons designed combat seemed persuade majority New Zealanders , strong majority Parliament , need ban rapid-firing weapons .
**************That attitude stood stark contrast way National Rifle Association political allies United States resisted restrictions weapons like AR-15 , semiautomatic rifle used several mass killings .
**************In New Zealand , took one mass shooting awaken government . In United States , even string mass killings — 26 dead school Newtown , Conn. ; 49 nightclub Orlando ; 58 concert Las Vegas ; 17 school Parkland , Fla. — enough . Nor fact 73 percent Americans say needs done curb gun violence , according recent polling .
**************The ban terrorists ’ weapon choice one areas Ms. Ardern showed leadership looks like time crisis . In lieu trite messages , donned black head scarf led group politicians visit victims ’ families ; speaking without script school victims attended , urged pupils “ let New Zealand place tolerance racism . Ever. ” She told grieving families , “ We know grief , walk every stage . ”
**************And striking gesture , refused utter name suspected killer . “ He may sought notoriety , New Zealand give nothing , ” said . “ Not even name . ”
**************After atrocity , world ’ leaders unite clearly condemning racism , sharing grief victims stripping haters weapons . Ms. Ardern shown way .
**************The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram .
**************Advertisement
**************China Daily
**************Advertisement
**************Share
**************Get 3D view China ’ government plans 2019 .
**************
**************The news editorial staffs The New York Times role post ’ creation .
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************The journalist Maria Ressa facing criminal charges social media threats .
**************By Kara Swisher
**************Ms. Swisher covers technology contributing opinion writer .
**************Harassing journalists one Rodrigo Duterte ’ specialties . Mr. Duterte , strongman president Philippines , going Maria Ressa , former CNN reporter founder online news site Rappler , two years . The campaign combines criminal charges Facebook smears intended tarnish reputation spread lies work .
**************Last week , Ms. Ressa spent night jail charge “ cyberlibel ” 2012 article Rappler published allegations corrupt ties businessman judge .
**************When spoke Skype Thursday attempts silence , said , “ I adjust normal , even nothing normal this. ” She added , “ It scare , meant scare everyone else . ”
**************Technically , spent night conference room , rather cell — National Bureau Investigation agents trying “ nice , ” told .
**************It perhaps small gracious act relentless assault Ms. Ressa Rappler .
**************[ Kara Swisher answered questions Twitter . ]
**************Rappler President Duterte ’ brutal regime , publishing articles extrajudicial killings human rights abuses . In mid-2017 , State Union speech , president struck back criticizing Rappler owned Americans ( investors indeed United States ) . He attempted get license revoked . Ms. Ressa charged tax evasion . Then arrest cyberlibel , considered criminal act .
**************While seemed tired legal roadblocks , undaunted even funny spoke . “ I think I paid bail Imelda Marcos , ” said , referring shoe-loving wife longtime ruler Philippines went ignominy .
**************It morning Manila , journalism . Instead , adding security Rappler ’ offices protect 100 employees forking money pay lawyers . Legal fees already account quarter operating budget , said .
**************She also contending relentless manipulation social media says government-friendly sources spread false information Rappler . These trolls focus Facebook , Filipinos get news . She called foreign agent , troublemaker , tax cheat , traitor ugly .
**************Last week , two people Ms. Ressa suspects working government managed slip Rappler ’ building broadcast video Facebook Live outside door urging protests social media attacks . Among comments feed : “ Hang Ressa , ” “ Bomb Ressa ” “ Behead . ”
**************Government officials said “ enjoying ” attention . She , Ms. Ressa reported video Facebook . She already provided company copious evidence way platform abused Mr. Duterte ’ troll army . This time Facebook responded blocking user posted video 30 days ( may popped Facebook Singapore , though ) .
**************It ’ cat-and-mouse game , Ms. Ressa said Facebook haphazard enforcing rules . While individual executives helpful , Ms. Ressa said , ’ hard time dealing Facebook , responded slowly .
**************“ Facebook world ’ largest distributor news yet refused gatekeeper , ” told recent onstage interview . “ And , allow lies actually get playing field facts , taints entire public sphere. ” At point , said , Facebook “ take lies . ”
**************As noted Thursday night , “ A lie told million times truth. ” On social media , though , like billion times .
**************Ms. Ressa said wished tried stop online abuse sooner : “ We ignored far long lesson I learned . ”
**************She said would continue try work Facebook social media outlets . “ Looking social media feed impossible , since I ’ defend I watch reputation dragged , ” said . Lately , Ms. Ressa said , attacks Twitter worsened . And I weirdly pummeled platform users calling Ms. Ressa con artist since I posted I speaking .
**************To try deal , Ms. Ressa said , thinks lot Reinhold Niebuhr ’ Serenity Prayer . “ I look stuff area control , like making sure staff safe business able continue , ” said , weary sigh . “ I ’ want story . ”
**************The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram , sign Opinion Today newsletter .
**************Kara Swisher , editor large technology news website Recode producer Recode Decode podcast Code Conference , contributing opinion writer . @ karaswisher • Facebook
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Charlotte Graham-McLay
**************WELLINGTON , New Zealand — In New Zealand , members public accustomed seeing top government officials grocery store street , unencumbered security guards common parts world .
**************The country ’ prime minister , Jacinda Ardern , even jokingly recounted Stephen Colbert “ The Late Show ” approached chatty strangers shopped maternity bras .
**************But Thursday morning , government minister attacked walking work alone capital city , leading Ms. Ardern warn New Zealanders ’ unusual level access country ’ lawmakers taken granted .
**************“ We environment New Zealand politicians accessible , ’ something feel proud , ” Ms Ardern said . “ We , , serve people . But today ’ events really show take granted . ”
**************The victim , James Shaw , 45 , co-leader left-leaning Green Party minister climate change , told police grabbed hit Thursday morning attack , leaving black eye cuts face . After treated scene , went attend meeting Parliament admitting examination hospital , remained Thursday afternoon .
**************Pete Huggins , Green Party spokesman , said Mr. Shaw told police assailant knew name , although officers said whether believe attack planned , motivated .
**************The episode rattled New Zealand , Mr. Huggins described “ close-knit community open society . ”
**************Unlike many countries , including United States Britain , prime minister lawmaker accompanied round-the-clock security personnel ; government ministers lawmakers . Residents Wellington , New Zealand ’ capital , regularly see elected officials walking cycling streets alone , politicians opt take public transportation rather using government vehicles .
**************“ I would hate see go , ” Marama Davidson , lawmaker leads Green Party Mr. Shaw , said news conference Thursday .
**************“ It would shame lose way people approach us access us country , ” added . “ That ’ one things I value way politics New Zealand . ”
**************The police arrested charged 47-year-old man attack Mr. Shaw . The man , police identify , appear Wellington District Court Friday .
**************Lawmakers across political spectrum joined condemning attack . Wellington ’ mayor , Justin Lester , wrote social media assailant ’ behavior “ outrageous ” New Zealanders “ lucky unparalleled access ” elected representatives .
**************Members public also expressed shock . One Twitter user branded attack Mr. Shaw “ assault democracy. ” Another said hoped attack “ awful one canary coal mine moment ” New Zealand .
**************Bryce Edwards , veteran New Zealand political commentator , said down-to-earth qualities commanded respect New Zealanders . “ We like politicians ‘ one us ’ ‘ us , ’ ” said .
**************While clear whether attack politically motivated , lawmakers took opportunity denounce said trend toward over-the-top reactions people disagreed politicians .
**************David Parker , trade minister lawmaker center-left Labour Party , cited called “ extreme opinion feeding political biases causing instability people ” “ fed social media platforms . ”
**************Ms. Ardern stopped short saying security beefed lawmakers . The episode took place inner-city area Wellington , minutes Ms. Ardern ’ residence .
**************Violence New Zealand lawmakers rare . The last one make global headlines recent years 2016 , government minister , Steven Joyce , hit face sex toy thrown protester , episode caused mirth fury .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur
**************SHANGHAI — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei preparing sue United States government barring federal agencies using company ’ products , according two people familiar matter .
**************The lawsuit filed Eastern District Texas , Huawei American headquarters , according people , requested anonymity discuss confidential plans . The company plans announce suit week .
**************The move could aimed forcing United States government make case Chinese equipment maker publicly . It part broad push Huawei defend campaign led United States undermine company , Washington sees security threat . Executives spoken strongly America ’ actions , new marketing campaigns aimed mending company ’ image among consumers .
**************For many years , United States officials said Beijing could use Huawei ’ telecommunication equipment spy disrupt communication networks . The company denied allegations , major wireless carriers AT & T Verizon effectively prevented using Huawei ’ equipment result .
**************Over past year , Washington ramped pressure firm , preparing take major role construction next-generation wireless networks around world . American officials urged governments ban use Huawei ’ products . This year , Justice Department filed criminal charges company chief financial officer connection evading American sanctions Iran .
**************A hearing set begin week Canada determine whether company ’ finance chief , Meng Wanzhou , extradited United States face charges . Ms. Meng ’ lawyers sued Canadian government police , arguing circumstances arrest detention December violated rights .
**************[ Many Canadians see Ms. Meng ’ case example foreign money ’ influence Vancouver . ]
**************The criminal case Ms. Meng United States could complicated comments President Trump White House engaged trade negotiations China . While criminal cases traditionally independent matters , Mr. Trump indicated Huawei ’ fate could bargaining chip .
**************During meeting Oval Office delegation Chinese officials last month , Mr. Trump said , “ We ’ making decision , ” asked would drop criminal charges Huawei part trade deal . He added , “ We ’ talking attorney general . ”
**************A lawsuit Huawei United States expected challenge section defense spending authorization law approved last year . The provision blocks executive agencies using telecom equipment made Huawei another Chinese company , ZTE .
**************According one people familiar matter , Huawei likely argue provision “ bill attainder , ” legislative act singles person group punishment without trial . The Constitution forbids Congress pass bills .
**************Huawei ’ plans final . It could still decide change course , file lawsuit .
**************The United States Embassy Beijing immediately respond request comment . A call placed outside business hours United States Court House Plano , Tex. , Huawei ’ American headquarters , answered .
**************[ China announced espionage accusations former Canadian diplomat Monday , days Ms. Meng ’ extradition hearing set take place . ]
**************In many ways , Huawei case echoes another company aroused security concerns United States : Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab .
**************Around two years ago , American officials began expressing worries Moscow could use company ’ software gather intelligence . The company denied allegations . But September 2017 , Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies begin removing company ’ products government systems . Congress codified ban spending law .
**************Kaspersky filed two lawsuits response , arguing prohibition amounted bill attainder . In May , judge District Columbia dismissed suits , ruling Congress motivated legitimate desire protect government computer networks Russian intrusion . The judge also said Kaspersky ’ sales American government small fraction company ’ business ban especially harsh .
**************An appeals court upheld ruling months later . Banning Kaspersky “ prophylactic , punitive , ” measure , judge appeal , David S. Tatel , wrote .
**************“ Given insignificant probability Kaspersky ’ products could compromised federal systems magnitude harm intrusion could wrought , Congress ’ decision remove Kaspersky federal networks represents reasonable balanced response , ” Judge Tatel wrote .
**************Raymond Zhong reported Shanghai , Paul Mozur Hong Kong . Alan Rappeport contributed reporting Washington .
**************Follow Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur Twitter : @ zhonggg @ paulmozur .
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Azam Ahmed Kirk Semple
**************MEXICO CITY — Mexican officials carrying Trump administration ’ immigration agenda across wide stretches border , undercutting Mexican government ’ promises defend migrants support search better life .
**************The Mexican authorities blocking groups migrants border towns , refusing allow onto international bridges apply asylum United States , intercepting unaccompanied minors reach American soil , helping manage lists asylum seekers behalf American authorities limit number people crossing border .
**************Breaking decades asylum practice , Mexican government also allowed Trump administration send 120 men , women children Tijuana await decisions asylum applications United States . The program could expanded border crossings soon next week .
**************Officials inside administration Mexico ’ new president , Andrés Manuel López Obrador , called stance migrants strategic decision anger President Trump .
**************He ’ believe change Mr. Trump ’ mind , contend . Furthermore , officials say , Mr. López Obrador wanted jeopardize aspects deeply interconnected relationship two countries , ranging elaborate regional trading arrangements information sharing border security , transnational crime terrorism . So avoided bruising potentially costly public fight issue .
**************A lifelong defender poor , Mr. López Obrador often refers plans Mexico grand transformation , placing ambitions nation par great leaders .
**************He burnished everyman credentials cutting government salaries , flying coach around country opening opulent presidential palace public . He also vastly reduced number Central American migrants Mexico deports soil .
**************But everything transformed .
**************Exhibit A Migrant Protection Protocols , Trump administration ’ policy require asylum seekers remain Mexican side border await decisions fate . Rights groups contend dumps migrants increasingly violent Mexico impairs access legal counsel family support United States .
**************Mr. López Obrador ’ administration , came office saying would cooperate Mr. Trump ’ anti-immigration agenda , gone along several fronts , including accepting women children despite earlier promises take adult male asylum seekers .
**************The Mexican government argued policy requiring asylum seekers wait Mexico imposed United States consented humanitarian reasons .
**************It also true Mr. López Obrador , giving Mr. Trump ’ border demands rarely saying word American president daily press briefings carries little political cost home .
**************[ Read latest edition Crossing Border , limited-run newsletter life United States Mexico meet . Sign receive next issue inbox . ]
**************To many Mexicans , fate migrants secondary domestic concerns jobs , security corruption . Mr. López Obrador retains 80 percent approval rating , despite government ’ willingness take back migrants applying asylum United States .
**************“ If accept handful people back Mexico , ’ really problem us , even politically , ” said one official authorized discuss internal deliberations . “ What really want avoid public fight Trump . ”
**************But effort avoid cross-border fight , Mexican government chosen politics humanitarian ideals , critics contend .
**************“ Mexico continuing play role U.S. thinks , contain migrant influx , period , ” said Melissa Vertiz Hernández , coordinates Working Group Immigration Policy , network civil society rights groups Mexico .
**************The delicate balance United States left Mexican government without clear , consistent immigration policy , Mexican states municipalities along border often position fending pressure American counterparts .
**************In Mexican border city Reynosa , instance , almost one allowed cross bridge apply asylum neighboring McAllen , Texas . They typically blocked apprehended Mexican officials , forcing migrants try luck towns .
**************In city Piedras Negras , officials rounded hundreds migrants arrived caravan recent weeks kept tight watch shelter limited access outsiders , advocates say . After public outcry , center closed many bused cities towns along border .
**************The mayor Ciudad Juárez , meanwhile , threatened sue neighboring governor shipping migrants town . It become game political hot potato , desperate Central Americans fleeing poverty violence caught middle .
**************Elsewhere along border , shelter officials say manage lists asylum applicants name , nationality , age documentation assist Mexican officials complying American border patrol mandates .
**************The Mexican government resisting Mr. Trump ways , official Mr. López Obrador ’ government insisted . Even acquiescing Trump administration Migrant Protection Protocols done strategically , according official two others briefed plan .
**************By allowing program start San Diego Tijuana , Mexican officials argued , legal challenges United States go federal courts Northern District California , generally seen liberal . This matters time many Americans focused beat Mr. Trump 2020 elections , particular leveraging Mexican-American vote .
**************But many activists far confident legal challenge put end program .
**************“ I think ’ incredibly risky move , ” said Stephanie Leutert , director Mexico Security Initiative University Texas Austin . “ I ’ think put country ’ foreign migratory policy hands civil society organization another country . ”
**************On Feb. 14 , civil society organization , American Civil Liberties Union , several advocacy groups filed lawsuit challenging Trump administration ’ policy . A decision temporary restraining order expected coming days .
**************The lawsuit , filed behalf 11 asylum seekers returned Mexico recent weeks , accuses Trump administration violating federal international migration human rights laws .
**************Advocates contend forcibly sending asylum seekers Tijuana , Trump administration plunged unfamiliar dangerous environment lives may jeopardy .
**************Killings Tijuana skyrocketed recent years turf war local drug market . In 2018 , city posted deadliest year record , 2,500 killings .
**************The Trump administration first announced new policy December , Jan. 28 head Mexico ’ migration agency said Mexican government imposed restrictions enactment .
**************But Mexican officials backed many initial restrictions , including refusal accept women children . Trump administration officials said plan expand program ports entry along border . The López Obrador administration said little publicly changes .
**************In Tijuana , several returnees — three single men , single woman , two mothers traveling three children — described confusion dismay finding Mexico .
**************“ I idea I ’ going survive , ” said Yanira , 34-year-old migrant El Salvador feared pursued people said fleeing home country .
**************Yanira said left El Salvador three children — ages 8 , 11 12 — local gang tried recruit middle child threatened violence unless agreed .
**************When stepped onto Mexican soil led back across border American officials , broke .
**************“ I cried cried , ” recalled .
**************Mexican officials said provide shelter care returnees , essentially leaving network community groups Tijuana elsewhere state Baja California .
**************But shelter network extraordinary pressure almost-continual arrival migrants traveling caravans , pushed centers beyond capacity .
**************Sister Salomé Limas , social worker Instituto Madre Asunta migrant shelter Tijuana , said currently housing 120 women children — space designed 44 .
**************Among migrants several families seeking asylum United States returned recent weeks Trump policy .
**************Sister Salomé said shelter house families first court date United States , late March . After , sure .
**************“ What ’ going happen ? ” said . “ We ’ know . ”
**************Paulina Villegas contributed reporting Mexico City .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Good Monday . ( Want email ? Sign . )
**************In wake two fatal crashes involving 737 Max 8 airplane shared similarities , Boeing finds prosecutors regulators inspecting development processes safety assessments .
**************• A grand jury Washington , D.C. , issued subpoena dated March 11 — day Ethiopian Airlines crash — seeking documents least one person involved development 737 Max jets , WSJ reports .
**************• The Transportation Department inspector general ’ office also reportedly examining plane ’ design certification second deadly crash .
**************• An investigation The Seattle Times found F.A.A . delegated wide responsibility 737 Max safety assessment Boeing . The resulting analysis included “ crucial flaws , ” according investigation .
**************• And Bloomberg reports early seven years ago , F.A.A . employees warned Boeing “ much sway safety approvals new aircraft . ”
**************Boeing said statement Sunday “ aircraft certification processes well established consistently produced safe aircraft designs. ” It added “ 737 Max certification program followed F.A.A. ’ standard certification process . ”
**************The ride-hailing company start road show I.P.O . today New York City . It ’ short ambition : Lyft hopes achieve valuation much $ 23 billion .
**************In updated prospectus , Lyft said hopes raise nearly $ 2.4 billion I.P.O . That figure close $ 2.16 billion revenue generated last year .
**************At high end proposed stock price , $ 68 , company would valued $ 23 billion . That would make stakes held company ’ founders , Logan Green John Zimmer , worth hundreds millions dollars apiece . The company expected price offering March 28 , would trade Nasdaq next day .
**************Lyft poised become one biggest market debuts tech company since Alibaba Group ’ I.P.O . 2014 . ( Until Uber goes public later year , least . )
**************But I.P.O . without controversy . It ’ facing backlash investors ’ happy dual-class stock structure . Paul Singer , head activist hedge fund Elliott Management , one , writing FT op-ed :
**************“ Those insight daring found business deserve respect . But sell vast majority company public , allowed run forever without shareholder input . Public ownership must mean public accountability . ”
**************The two German lenders announced yesterday formally begin merger talks . Now must convince critics combining good thing .
**************Deutsche Bank said reviewing “ strategic options ” shoring profitability growth . Christian Sewing , firm ’ C.E.O. , told employees , “ I consistently stressed consolidation German European banking sector important topic us . ”
**************The combined bank would one Europe ’ biggest , $ 2 trillion assets one-fifth private customers Germany .
**************Going public signals deal political backing . Germany ’ finance minister argued country needs strong national champion compete foreign banks . ( Here FT ’ list key decision-makers deal . )
**************But opposition merger strong . German unions criticized plan , fearing tens thousands job cuts . And Elisa Martinuzzi Bloomberg Opinion warns ’ fix bigger problems German banking system .
**************The Trump administration ’ campaign prevent countries using Huawei equipment 5G wireless networks faltered , Julian E. Barnes Adam Satariano NYT write .
**************American officials pressuring threatening nations shun Huawei . The push rooted U.S. concerns Chinese telecom companies significant security threat , could help Beijing spy nations .
**************But ’ really working . Britain , Germany , India United Arab Emirates signaled unlikely follow America ’ lead .
**************The U.S. campaign criticized lack evidence . American intelligence briefings reportedly failed clearly show Chinese government used Huawei steal information . ( Read five experts two senators say whether threat . ) Some European Asian officials also believe President Trump may fully support fight .
**************American officials want find ways curb Huawei ’ rise , Mr. Barnes Mr. Satariano write , “ including possibly restricting American companies supplying Huawei key components needs build 5G networks across world . ”
**************More : Huawei built operating system smartphones computers , used company longer use software developed Google Microsoft .
**************The financial sector ’ felt impact # MeToo much industries . But David Gelles NYT reports , lawsuit asset manager TCW could change .
**************• Sara Tirschwell , created distressed-debt fund TCW fired 2017 , sued firm ; former boss , Jess Ravich ; C.E.O. , David Lippman . She claimed dismissal retaliation reporting sexual harassment claim Mr. Ravich , gender discrimination breach contract .
**************• Ms. Tirschwell alleges Mr. Ravich pressured sex several times tenure firm . The first encounter made feel , according lawsuit , “ rejection would mean end Ravich ’ crucial support . ”
**************• TCW , Mr. Ravich Mr. Lippman denied allegations . “ I Sara ’ biggest supporter TCW role decision fire , ” Mr. Ravich said .
**************• So far , ’ talk settlement . Mr. Gelles writes , “ Days court rare movement — rarer still Wall Street , grievances typically dealt private , wire transfer , dealt . ”
**************Despite delivering disappointing returns investors , many C.E.O.s saw compensation climb last year , according WSJ .
**************• “ Median compensation 132 chief executives S & P 500 companies reached $ 12.4 million 2018 , $ 11.7 million group 2017 , ” WSJ calculates .
**************• “ Most C.E.O.s received substantial raises — median 6.4 percent — even though December stock-market swoon meant companies finished year posting sluggish shareholder returns . ”
**************• “ Markets pretty well , companies well , economy held , ” Robin Ferracone , executive-pay consultant , told WSJ .
**************• But also said boards may thinking forward economic slowdown , adding , “ They know ’ going bring bloom ’ rose . ”
**************The shooting mosque Christchurch , New Zealand , designed go viral internet . What ?
**************“ The attack teased Twitter , announced online message board 8chan broadcast live Facebook , ” Kevin Roose NYT writes . “ The footage replayed endlessly YouTube , Twitter Reddit , platforms scrambled take clips nearly fast new copies popped replace . ”
**************“ Online extremism regular extremism steroids . There offline equivalent experience algorithmically nudged toward strident version existing beliefs , ” Mr. Roose adds . “ People become fluent culture online extremism , make consume edgy memes , cluster harden . And , one erupts . ”
**************But telling terrorists trolls ’ easy tech companies , Christopher Mims WSJ argues . Knowing online extremists erupt act violence virtually impossible , broadcasts sudden acts violence hard automatically block .
**************More needs done . “ We need understand address poisonous pipeline extremism emerged past several years , whose ultimate effects impossible quantify clearly far big ignore , ” Mr. Roose writes . “ It ’ going away , ’ particularly getting better . ”
**************PG & E reportedly close naming Bill Johnson , outgoing head Tennessee Valley Authority , next C.E.O .
**************Google named Scott Beaumont , head greater China Korea operations , chief Asia-Pacific team .
**************Stuart Benson resigned C.F.O . MoviePass .
**************Princeville Capital , venture capital firm invests climate technology , recruited Leonardo DiCaprio adviser .
**************Deals
**************• Fidelity National Information Services agreed buy international payments processor , Worldpay , $ 34 billion . ( The companies )
**************• Caesars Entertainment Eldorado Resorts reportedly early merger talks . ( Reuters )
**************• Private equity firms like KKR CVC Capital Partners reportedly interested buying Bayer ’ animal-health division . ( Bloomberg )
**************• PagerDuty , popular start-up alerts I.T . workers tech problems need fixing , publicly filed I.P.O . ( Business Insider )
**************Politics policy
**************• Investors eagerly await Treasury Department ’ rules investing tax-advantaged opportunity zones . ( NYT )
**************• Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro monologue questioning Muslim lawmaker ’ loyalty U.S. — President Trump unhappy move . ( NYT )
**************• Cindy Yang , former owner massage parlor busted prostitution ring , come scrutiny political activities , including donations president ’ re-election campaign . ( NYT )
**************Brexit
**************• Prime Minister Theresa May expected put Brexit deal third parliamentary vote week , likely contingent gaining backing Democratic Unionist Party . ( FT )
**************• Meanwhile , Labour Party appears set support plan would seek public vote Mrs. May ’ deal approved lawmakers . ( Reuters )
**************Trade
**************• The U.S. China pushing meeting late April complete trade deal , negotiators still grappling details . ( NYT )
**************• The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska sued U.S. Treasury Department sanctions placed last year . ( CNBC )
**************• President Xi Jinping China starts series state visits Europe week bid bolster trade continent . ( Bloomberg )
**************Tech
**************• Marc Andreessen , Facebook board member , reportedly met Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Chris Wylie 2016 . If true , would suggest understood extent company ’ harvesting Facebook data . He denies claim . ( Observer , Business Insider )
**************• In related news , academic behind Cambridge Analytica ’ data mining sued Facebook defamation . ( NYT )
**************• Apple making billion-dollar bet take Netflix . Will work ? ( NYT )
**************• Tech investors including # MeToo clauses start-up deals . ( FT )
**************• Breaking tech giants suddenly become populist concept — San Francisco . ( NYT , Bloomberg )
**************Best rest
**************• In wake admissions scandal , colleges rethinking athletic special admissions . ( WSJ )
**************• The Fed likely say later week little appetite interest rate rises year . ( WSJ )
**************• Why successful joint ventures turn sour ? It ’ often success breeds desire control venture sought avoid . ( Economist )
**************• The European Central Bank unhappy E.U. ’ plans increasing supervision clearing houses . ( FT )
**************Thanks reading ! We ’ see tomorrow .
**************We ’ love feedback . Please email thoughts suggestions business @ nytimes.com .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Andrew Higgins Mujib Mashal
**************MOSCOW — Thirty years last Soviet troops retreated Afghanistan , Russia Tuesday reasserted player region , hosting talks Taliban senior Afghan politicians aimed speeding exit another superpower — time United States .
**************The talks , held Moscow ’ President Hotel , owned Kremlin , offered clearer view Taliban see end 18-year war . In room dripping chandeliers , 50 delegates — many flowing robes , Western suits ties , nearly old sometimes violent rivals — faced across large , circular conference table .
**************While Afghan politicians , part delegation led former President Hamid Karzai , spoke protecting hard gains past two decades , Taliban denounced new Afghan Constitution lays system governance built enormous cost .
**************The Taliban representatives also offered rare look see role women . While barred women public life time power , said believed women ’ rights , including education work — claim met skepticism women Afghanistan .
**************The Moscow gathering , included Taliban delegation led chief negotiator , Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai , represented significant contact senior Afghan politicians Taliban since United States toppled hard-line Islamist group power end 2001 .
**************Absent talks , however , American-backed Afghan government President Ashraf Ghani , strongly criticized meeting affront designed undermine office ’ authority Afghan state .
**************Mr. Ghani uncomfortable position , odds American backers , sees moving quickly reach deal , also others country ’ political elite rallying around American-led effort .
**************“ What agreeing , ? Where implementing power ? ” Mr. Ghani told Afghan channel ToloNews Tuesday , dismissing talks . “ They could hold hundred meetings , Afghan government , Afghan Parliament , legal institutions Afghanistan approve , agreements paper . ”
**************The delegation headed Mr. Karzai consisted entirely former officials , representatives political parties — many involved country ’ bloody civil war — current members Parliament . There two women group .
**************Afghans social media critical delegation , questioning whether represented Afghanistan .
**************“ Those meeting Moscow , pushed aside , ” said Khaled Abedy , 31 , works private company Kabul , Afghan capital . “ They want build business . The country ’ important . I think sort meeting ’ help peace process . ”
**************But Atta Muhammad Noor , one Afghan politicians delegation Moscow , said participants considered representative Afghanistan Mr. Ghani ’ government .
**************“ We fighting 40 years , people influence , Ghani , ” said Mr. Noor , longtime governor Balkh Province Mr. Ghani dismissed last year .
**************Speaking sidelines event , said foreign forces , including around 14,000 American troops , must leave Afghanistan . But cautioned withdrawn gradually , avoid repeat chaos engulfed Afghanistan abrupt Soviet pullout 1989 .
**************The talks , scheduled last two days , opened week American diplomats Taliban representatives ended six days negotiations Doha , capital Qatar . Each side said negotiations made progress toward ending conflict began United States invaded Afghanistan 2001 , long terror attacks Sept. 11 .
**************Both sides said agreed , principle , framework two issues : Taliban guarantee Afghan soil would never used terrorist groups like Al Qaeda , pledge United States withdraw troops . But many Afghans concerned Americans might eager strike deal .
**************The organizer Moscow talks ostensibly Afghan diaspora Russia , Russian government . But Afghan officials Taliban members said Kremlin playing major role orchestrating meeting behind scenes .
**************Russia , chastened damage done Soviet Union occupation Afghanistan , shown interest getting involved militarily , least directly . But positioned force reckoned , relishing Washington ’ agonies hands Taliban insurgents .
**************Russia designated Taliban terrorist organization 2003 , first strongly supported American efforts purge Afghanistan extremist Islamist groups , President Vladimir V. Putin described threat Russia ’ security .
**************But amid rising Cold War-style rivalry Moscow Washington , Russia hedged bets opening channels Taliban . Moscow allowed 10-member delegation Taliban , still officially barred terrorists , enter Russia Moscow talks .
**************On Tuesday Afghanistan , violence continued unabated . The Taliban attacked police army outposts around northern city Kunduz dawn , killing least 23 members Afghan security forces . In Takhar Province , gunmen attacked women ’ radio station , killing two staff members .
**************Mr. Karzai made appeal end bloodshed , saying Afghan soldiers Taliban fighters buried next .
**************“ All around graveyards regular Afghans — graves plenty , ” Mr. Karzai said . “ The dream every mother , hope every father buried . ”
**************Mr. Karzai first installed Afghanistan ’ leader United States late 2001 , relationship soured . He visited Russia often since leaving office 2014 , meetings Mr. Putin officials aligned Moscow ’ view United States must leave Afghanistan , Soviet Union .
**************Mr. Stanekzai , Taliban ’ chief negotiator , said speech lasting half hour group seek monopolize power inside Afghanistan . He said pursuing Islamist government , “ consultation Afghans , ” group recognize country ’ current Constitution , calling copied West .
**************Perhaps revealing part speech came described Taliban ’ view future role Afghan women . When power , group sent religious police patrol streets , giving lashes women , among things , showing ankles .
**************“ We committed rights given women Islam , ” Mr. Stanekzai said . “ Islam given women fundamental rights — trade , ownership , inheritance , education , work choice partner , security education , good life . ”
**************Considering group ’ history , Afghan women immediately questioned statement ’ sincerity .
**************But Fawzia Koofi , female member Afghan Parliament one two women attendance , said happy heard Taliban promise women would stripped rights would allowed serve prime minister — though president .
**************However , cautioned , “ We gained much last 18 years , whatever problems , want go back Taliban period . ”
**************Andrew Higgins reported Moscow , Mujib Mashal Kabul , Afghanistan . Najim Rahim contributed reporting Mazar-i-Sharif , Afghanistan ; Fahim Abed Fatima Faizi Kabul ; Taimoor Shah Kandahar , Afghanistan .
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Christine Hauser
**************It like online matchmaking service . Horse lovers want adopt wild mustang western United States browse dozens headshots .
**************From drop-down menus , choose gender , color age : 4-year-old chestnut mare , example , 9-year-old gray gelding . Some horses training , others might “ gentled , ” experience handled .
**************This Wild Horses Online , part federal Bureau Land Management ’ online adoption service . Starting month , bureau trying make wild mustang adoptions attractive paying $ 1,000 take animals , gathered public land western United States part efforts manage population .
**************The adoption program , began March 12 , intended encourage potential owners take leap adopting wild horses , whose access pasture water challenged factors including rising population droughts , said Deborah Collins , bureau ’ outreach officer .
**************Ms. Collins said government hoped people would “ take fresh look ” owning wild horse say : “ I got little help . I go find trainer . ”
**************The program first incentive type Bureau Land Management offered since Wild Free-Roaming Horses Burros Act 1971 detailed agency ’ duties legal custodian wild horses burros United States .
**************Previously , people adopted wild mustang paying $ 125 . Now , paid $ 500 front receive $ 500 balance prove owned animal responsibly year , Ms. Collins said .
**************Carrie Jim Pacileo Powell , Wyo. , drove six hours March 15 adoption event Rock Springs . The couple already adopted two mustangs , one completely trained partly trained , wanted .
**************“ I told husband I wanted try train completely wild , ” Ms. Pacileo said .
**************They came home two mustangs : 9-month-old Remmi 11-month-old Stormy .
**************“ Being younger , thought maybe would easier , ” Ms. Pacileo said .
**************She said money receive adopting horses would invested equipment hay production 40 acres .
**************“ I wanted , like ultimate symbol America , ” said .
**************More 66,000 wild horses 15,000 burros roam 26 million acres 10 states , bureau ’ latest data shows . The ideal level populations combined 26,690 , according bureau .
**************The challenge bureau balance population animals available resources public private lands . Some found rambling along highways foraging backyards , discovered open range , emaciated dying thirst , Ms. Collins said .
**************The main method population control simply move . From July February , helicopters chase wild horses corrals facilities made available adoption , sold adopted .
**************Last year , 11,000 horses burros removed public lands , nearly decade , bureau figures show . As last month , 50,000 horses available adoption corrals off-range pastures long-term , Ms. Collins said .
**************Some bureau ’ measures attracted controversy use helicopters chase animals removal horses open range primary method population control . Some worried wild horses could end slaughterhouses abroad .
**************The American Wild Horse Campaign , advocacy group , said statement criticizing bureaus ’ new adoption program agency employ population control measures , fertility methods . “ The B.L.M . adopt way situation faces stockpiling 50,000 horses holding facilities , ” said Suzanne Roy , group ’ executive director .
**************Ms. Collins said bureau tried fertility measures , including sending volunteers administer birth control vaccinations mares wild . But effects vaccinations last year 18 months , results adequately addressed overpopulation , said .
**************The bureau ’ push make adoptions enticing focused training . The agency working nonprofit Mustang Heritage Foundation , started Extreme Mustang Makeover , national competition trainers 100 days turn wild mustang well-behaved steed .
**************Wild mustangs also trained federal prisons rehabilitation programs coordinated bureau .
**************The $ 1,000 adoption payout costs bureau half would keep animal year , Ms. Collins said . For owners , mustangs cost less keep breeds , thoroughbreds quarter horses , said Mary Santagata , adopts buys mustangs All Kings Horses , rescue organization Northford , Conn .
**************Adopted mustangs current vaccinations , Ms. Santagata said , annual veterinary care could cost $ 300 “ problems. ” About $ 50 every eight 10 weeks goes toward hooves professionally trimmed . Many owners feed mustangs hay , similar diet open range , rather expensive grain hay , said .
**************“ They hardy , ” Ms. Santagata said . “ They built survive . ”
**************Other costs include adapting corrals six-foot-high paneled fencing wild horses escape , providing open-sided sheds enter need shelter , easily led .
**************The expensive part owning wild horse , Ms. Santagata said , paying experienced trainers . At 41 , around horses life , said could handle basic “ gentling ” wild mustang . When horses corrals , uses soft opening , approaching retreating , get accustomed .
**************“ You walk around see reacts , ” said . “ I mustangs would look months . ”
**************She gradually introduces halters led around , able accomplish three months , said . For advanced skills like riding , sends mustangs professionals , grown know .
**************“ I look like I adopting living legend , ” Ms. Santagata said . “ They mystical creature wild , lucky ones find . ”
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Nicholas Casey
**************BOGOTÁ , Colombia — Jorge Ramos , news anchor television network Univision , said detained Venezuelan government confrontational interview President Nicolás Maduro Monday evening Miraflores Palace Caracas .
**************“ He ’ like things asking lack democracy Venezuela , torture political prisoners , ” Mr. Ramos recounted Univision broadcast , said released government .
**************Mr. Ramos said detained “ two hours ” let go allowed return hotel . He said government confiscated crew ’ equipment , including phones memory cards .
**************“ We ’ anything , ” said . “ They interviews . ”
**************On Monday night , Kimberly Breier , assistant secretary state Western Hemisphere State Department , said Mr. Ramos detained called government release immediately .
**************“ The world watching , ” wrote Twitter .
**************Venezuela ’ government dispute account Mr. Ramos temporarily held , appeared lay blame anchor .
**************“ We ’ lend cheap shows , ” said Jorge Rodríguez , government communications minister .
**************He added , “ Hundreds journalists come received decent treatment always give journalistic work . ”
**************Mr. Ramos , Mexico-born American journalist , known confrontational questions , particularly leaders attacked press . In 2015 , tangled Donald J. Trump , presidential candidate , news conference Mr. Trump eventually guards force room .
**************“ Go back Univision , ” Mr. Trump said .
**************Univision largest Spanish-language television network United States .
**************Mr. Maduro recently stuck friendly interviews state television outlets .
**************But since current crisis , faces major challenge Venezuela ’ opposition , whose leader , Juan Guaidó also claims presidency , Mr. Maduro conducted number interviews international media outlets including BBC , Eurovision ABC , also conducted interview Monday .
**************In ABC interview , Mr. Maduro defended criticism blocking aid shipments , opposition White House demanded let pass Venezuela ’ borders Colombia Brazil .
**************“ Everything United States government done doomed failure , ” Mr. Maduro said . “ They ’ trying fabricate crisis justify political escalation military intervention Venezuela bring war South America . ”
**************Mr. Ramos said showing images children eating dumpster Mr. Maduro , common sight Venezuela , president presided shortages food medicine .
**************“ He got interview , ” Mr. Ramos said . “ Immediately afterward , one ministers , Jorge Rodríguez , came say interview ’ authorized . ”
**************Then , Mr. Ramos said , detained .
**************Later Monday night , Mr. Ramos , writes column syndicated New York Times Licensing Group , told Reuters crew would deported Tuesday .
**************
**************
**************video
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Best Late Night
**************By Giovanni Russonello
**************Welcome Best Late Night , rundown previous night ’ highlights lets sleep — lets us get paid watch comedy . If ’ interested hearing The Times regularly great TV , sign Watching newsletter get recommendations straight inbox .
**************Stephen Colbert admitted ’ happy see President Trump Congress apparently nearing border security deal , would help avert government shutdown . But said wished could press reset political conversation .
**************“ We ’ supposed care whether Trump Nancy lost , Trump caved Nancy ’ dancing end zone , ” said . “ But nothing — nothing — happened government 2019 affected anyone . Where ’ infrastructure bill ? Where ’ immigration bill ? Where ’ fix health care ? We celebrating — supposed celebrating — ’ close deal achieve absolute minimum : government ! ”
**************Colbert pointed reports preparations possible border wall already damaged butterfly habitats Texas . He argued Trump ought sympathy insects .
**************“ After , ’ got lot common butterflies . They ’ fragile creatures bright , iridescent coloring paper-thin skin . It ’ Trump never left larval stage. ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
**************Colbert also tweaked Democrats showed clip Representative Nita Lowey insisting lawmakers agreed fund partial “ barrier , ” “ wall . ”
**************“ Oh , wall , barrier ! A clinching legal argument first made landmark case Potato v. Potato. ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
**************Jimmy Kimmel ’ excited recent news sequel film “ Frozen ” come fall .
**************“ Just ‘ Baby Shark ’ song ’ finally starting get heads , ’ new batch ‘ Frozen ’ songs way . For ’ kids , ‘ Frozen ’ street-legal drug children ’ 10 times addictive ‘ Paw Patrol ’ gummy worms combined . In one , Disney finally answer question , ‘ What made bunch money ? ’ ” — JIMMY KIMMEL
**************Trevor Noah excited Howard Schultz ’ middle-of-the-road potential candidacy . He criticized Schultz , former chief executive Starbucks , saying CNN town hall ’ “ see race . ”
**************“ It would , like , ‘ How going solve black unemployment ? ’ And guy would like , ‘ What mean black unemployment ? All I see staggering unemployment among people named Jamal . Anyway , ’ February , happy History Month ! ’ ” — TREVOR NOAH
**************“ Tomorrow Valentine ’ Day . St. Valentine , course , patron saint seasonal marketing. ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
**************“ Tomorrow , Auntie Anne ’ offering special heart-shaped pretzels . It ’ great deal hopeless romantics taking dates La Guardia. ” — JIMMY FALLON
**************Samantha Bee went bat ambitious Green New Deal plan Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez unveiled month .
**************On “ Conan , ” Kay Jewelers Tinder Collection featured bejeweled inscriptions “ Please Don ’ Murder Me ” “ What ’ Your Last Name ? ”
**************Bradley Cooper , director star “ A Star Is Born , ” “ The Late Show ” Thursday . With Oscars 10 days away , anticipation probably hang air .
**************Aubrey Plaza hosting Film Independent Spirit Awards month . She ’ die-hard fan independent cinema , looking forward bringing back “ intimate vibe ” awards show televised .
**************Plus , Ideas What Watch Tonight :
**************The 50 Best Movies Netflix Right Now
**************The 25 Best Films 21st Century
**************The Best Movies Amazon Prime Video Right Now
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Declan Walsh
**************CAIRO — President Omar Hassan al-Bashir Sudan imposed yearlong state emergency dissolved federal state governments Friday , attempt end months nationwide street protests shaken authority three decades rule .
**************In televised address broadcast live presidential palace Khartoum , Mr. al-Bashir declared state emergency , disbanded federal government , replaced state governors military generals .
**************Mr. al-Bashir also said pausing , ending , effort amend Sudan ’ constitution could run third term office current one ends 2020 .
**************Reuters , citing presidential statement , reported Friday night Mr. al-Bashir appointed caretaker administration , leaving current defense , foreign justice ministers place .
**************In speech . acknowledged economic hardship triggered first protests December , said protest movement hijacked elements “ agendas ” achieve “ zero sum scenarios . ”
**************Mr. al-Bashir , wanted International Criminal Court charges war crimes , ruled Sudan iron fist decades , immediate implications state emergency unclear . It seemed signal hardening attitude toward protests , led young professionals angered economic decay corruption become hallmarks Mr. al-Bashir ’ rule .
**************The demonstrations first began Dec. 19 town Atbara , focused soaring bread prices . They quickly grew movement calling ouster president , near daily protests spreading cities across country .
**************The protesters come across Sudanese society , including sections shrinking upper middle class withered country ’ precipitous economic slide . Soaring fuel prices caused factories close , youth employment stands 27 percent , according World Bank estimates .
**************“ Our country passing difficult complicated phase national history , ” Mr. al-Bashir said speech Friday .
**************He blamed external factors collapse , protesters say stems decades kleptocratic , incompetent rule . Their frequent chant marches — riot police arrive tear gas sometimes bullets — , “ Just fall , ! ”
**************Protest leaders say 1,000 people arrested crackdown led feared National Intelligence Security Service . Internet access restricted effort block social media posts used mostly young protesters organize demonstrations .
**************The government said 31 people died protest-related violence . Human Rights Watch put toll 51 people killed since mid-December .
**************On Friday , Mr. al-Bashir stumbled several times read speech . In attempt mollify protesters , offered prayers killed announced plans economic reform new government , yet fully formed . He invited opposition “ move forward engage dialogue regarding current issues country . ”
**************In recent years , Mr. al-Bashir fired marginalized potential rivals power , little long rule suggests new willingness rapprochement .
**************Mr. al-Bashir came power military coup 1989 , since Sudan endured famines , American missile strikes , isolation civil war led independence South Sudan 2011 . Two years , International Criminal Court ordered Mr. al-Bashir arrested charges played “ essential role ” atrocities , including murder , rape , torture displacement civilians conflict Darfur region Sudan .
**************In 2017 , United States lifted sanctions Sudan , relief failed stem steep economic decline . Mr. al-Bashir lobbied State Department remove Sudan list state sponsors terrorism , factor country ’ economic woes .
**************Before televised address , Sudan ’ intelligence chief , Salah Abdallah Gosh , told reporters Mr. al-Bashir would announce resignation head ruling National Congress Party .
**************But Mr. al-Bashir said nothing speech party , activists fear state emergency could presage even harsher measures movement .
**************In immediate aftermath speech , however , demonstrators appeared undeterred . Videos posted social media suggested protests rule continued Khartoum .
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Ceylan Yeginsu
**************Britain ’ chancellor Exchequer , Philip Hammond , delivered statement country ’ economy Wednesday something fiscal nonevent , specter Britain ’ withdrawal European Union , Brexit , hanging every economic projection .
**************Mr. Hammond ’ main message — could deliver funds public spending British Parliament reaches deal Brexit — came day lawmakers rejected Prime Minister Theresa May ’ plan large margin .
**************With Mrs. May sitting behind , Mr. Hammond conspicuously called lawmakers “ put aside differences seek compromise ” Brexit , something neither prime minister Labour leader , Jeremy Corbyn , yet accepted .
**************“ Higher unemployment , lower wages , higher prices shops . That British people voted June 2016 , ” said , referring 2016 referendum leave European Union .
**************Here five takeaways chancellor ’ spring statement .
**************The uncertainty surrounding Brexit slowdown global economy cut growth 2019 1.2 percent 1.6 percent projected last year ’ autumn budget .
**************The British economy set grow 1.4 percent 2020 1.6 percent following two years , according official forecasts independent Office Budget Responsibility .
**************One bright spot wage growth , revised upward least 3 percent year , work force expanding 600,000 2023 , Mr. Hammond said .
**************With public sector borrowing trending , Mr. Hammond pledged increase Brexit dividend 26.6 billion pounds , $ 35 billion , comes catch : British lawmakers would vote pronto leave European Union deal .
**************In statement , Office Budget Responsibility attributed improved fiscal climate higher income tax receipts lower expected interest costs .
**************Once , Mr. Hammond hedged good news familiar caveat : Parliament first agree deal Brexit .
**************A smooth Brexit see “ deal dividend , ” economic boost free resources schools , police social care , areas suffered significantly decade budget cuts conservative government ’ austerity policy .
**************Analysts quick point government making promises time , promised spending increases failed materialize .
**************“ The repeated promise austerity coming end ring hollow millions low wage , disabled unemployed people see social security tax credits frozen another year April , ” Dr. Mary-Ann Stephenson , director Women ’ Budget Group , said Wednesday .
**************The government fund free sanitary products secondary schools colleges England response concerns girls missing school afford buy products , Mr. Hammond said .
**************The announcement comes two-year campaign started Amika George , 19 , read reports schoolgirls northern city Leeds using newspaper , socks toilet paper could afford sanitary products would sometimes miss school avoid embarrassment .
**************“ It ’ definitely really huge number , ” Ms. George said phone interview . “ This ’ small minority people ’ affecting . It ’ definitely prevalent , ’ something government needs take action . ”
**************Knife crime , rose fourth straight year 2018 , hot-button issue days . To help address , additional 100 million pounds , $ 130 million , made available police forces across England Wales help tackle knife crime , risen fourth consecutive year .
**************Police funding England Wales fell 19 percent 2010-11 2018-19 , National Audit Office says .
**************The extra funding spent additional overtime targeted knife crime new violent crime reduction units , Mr. Hammond said .
**************The announcement falls short 200 300 million pounds , $ 260 million $ 390 million , requested National Police Chief ’ Council last week .
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Sophisticated surveillance , domain world powers , increasingly available private market . Smaller countries seizing tools — sometimes darker purposes .
**************NSO , private company based Herzliya , Israel , hired former government hackers ply trades foreign governments.CreditCreditCorinna Kern The New York Times
**************Supported
**************By Mark Mazzetti , Adam Goldman , Ronen Bergman Nicole Perlroth
**************The man charge Saudi Arabia ’ ruthless campaign stifle dissent went searching ways spy people saw threats kingdom . He knew go : secretive Israeli company offering technology developed former intelligence operatives .
**************It late 2017 Saud al-Qahtani — top adviser Saudi Arabia ’ powerful crown prince — tracking Saudi dissidents around world , part extensive surveillance efforts ultimately led killing journalist Jamal Khashoggi . In messages exchanged employees company , NSO Group , Mr. al-Qahtani spoke grand plans use surveillance tools throughout Middle East Europe , like Turkey Qatar France Britain .
**************The Saudi government ’ reliance firm Israel , adversary decades , offers glimpse new age digital warfare governed rules growing economy , valued $ 12 billion , spies hire .
**************Today even smallest countries buy digital espionage services , enabling conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping influence campaigns preserve major powers like United States Russia . Corporations want scrutinize competitors ’ secrets , wealthy individual beef rival , also command intelligence operations price , akin purchasing off-the-shelf elements National Security Agency Mossad .
**************[ For stories changing nature warfare , sign weekly At War newsletter . ]
**************NSO competitor , Emirati firm DarkMatter , exemplify proliferation privatized spying . A monthslong examination The New York Times , based interviews current former hackers governments private companies others well review documents , uncovered secret skirmishes burgeoning world digital combat .
**************The firms enabled governments hack criminal elements like terrorist groups drug cartels also cases act darker impulses , targeting activists journalists . Hackers trained United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople human rights workers net . Cybermercenaries working DarkMatter turned prosaic household item , baby monitor , spy device .
**************The F.B.I . investigating current former American employees DarkMatter possible cybercrimes , according four people familiar investigation . The inquiry intensified former N.S.A . hacker working company grew concerned activities contacted F.B.I. , Reuters reported .
**************NSO DarkMatter also compete fiercely , paying handsomely lure top hacking talent Israel , United States countries , sometimes pilfering recruits , The Times found .
**************The Middle East epicenter new era privatized spying . Besides DarkMatter NSO , Black Cube , private company run former Mossad Israeli military intelligence operatives gained notoriety Harvey Weinstein , disgraced Hollywood mogul , hired dig dirt accusers . Psy-Group , Israeli company specializing social media manipulation , worked Russian oligarchs 2016 pitched Trump campaign plan build online army bots avatars swing Republican delegate votes .
**************Last year , wealthy American businessman , Elliott Broidy , sued government Qatar New York firm run former C.I.A . officer , Global Risk Advisors , said sophisticated breach company led thousands emails spilling public . Mr. Broidy said operation motivated hard-nosed geopolitics : At beginning Trump administration , pushed White House adopt anti-Qatar policies time firm poised receive hundreds millions dollars contracts United Arab Emirates , archrival Qatar .
**************A judge dismissed Mr. Broidy ’ lawsuit , suspicions grown Qatar hand operations , including hacking leaking emails Yousef al-Otaiba , influential Emirati ambassador Washington .
**************The rapid expansion global high-tech battleground , armies cybermercenaries clash , prompted warnings dangerous chaotic future .
**************“ Even smallest country , low budget , offensive capability , ” initiate online attacks adversaries , said Robert Johnston , founder cybersecurity firm Adlumin key investigator Russia ’ 2016 hacking Democratic National Committee . “ Qatar U.A.E . going , war getting , bloody .
**************“ The barriers entry space getting lower lower . ”
**************Before NSO helped Saudi government track adversaries outside kingdom , helped Mexican government hunt drug kingpins , earned hundreds millions dollars working dozens countries six continents , company consisted two high school friends northern Israel one relatively mundane idea .
**************Using technology developed graduates Intelligence Unit 8200 — Israel ’ equivalent N.S.A.— Shalev Hulio Omri Lavie started company 2008 allowed cellphone firms gain remote access customers ’ devices perform maintenance .
**************Word spread Western spy services , whose operatives spotted opportunity . At time , American European officials warning Apple , Facebook , Google tech giants developing technologies allowed criminals terrorists communicate encrypted channels indecipherable intelligence law enforcement agencies . They called phenomenon “ going dark . ”
**************Mr. Hulio Mr. Lavie offered way circumvent problem hacking end points communications — phones — data decrypted .
**************By 2011 , NSO developed first prototype , mobile surveillance tool company called Pegasus . Like namesake , Greek mythological winged horse , NSO ’ tool could something seemingly impossible : collect vast amounts previously inaccessible data smartphones air without leaving trace — including phone calls , texts , emails , contacts , location data transmitted apps like Facebook , WhatsApp Skype .
**************“ Once companies invade phone , . You ’ carrying around , ” Avi Rosen Kaymera Technologies , Israeli cyberdefense company , said NSO competitors .
**************The company soon first client Pegasus : government Mexico , engaged crackdown drug cartels . By 2013 , NSO installed Pegasus three Mexican agencies , according emails obtained The Times . The emails estimated , altogether , firm sold Mexican government $ 15 million worth hardware software . Mexico paying firm $ 77 million track wide array targets ’ every move swipe phone .
**************NSO products important Mexico ’ war cartels , according four people familiar Mexican government used Pegasus , speaking condition anonymity discuss intelligence matters . Mexican officials credited Pegasus instrumental helping track capture El Chapo , famed drug kingpin convicted last month New York sentenced life maximum-security prison .
**************Soon enough , NSO selling governments throughout world , company claiming clients every continent except Antarctica . NSO products — particularly Pegasus — helped break terrorist cells aided investigations organized crime child abduction , European intelligence law enforcement officials said interviews .
**************NSO ’ first client , Mexican government , also using hacking tools darker purposes — part broader government industry surveillance effort . The government used NSO products track least two dozen journalists , government critics , international investigators looking unsolved disappearance 43 students , even backers soda tax , according Times investigations research Citizen Lab , part University Toronto .
**************Those targets subjected stream harassing text messages contained malware . Some messages warned spouses affairs , others relative passed away . In one case , government officials able infiltrate phone journalist , targeted 16-year-old son ’ .
**************Though NSO says sells services criminal antiterrorism investigations , none Mexicans known targeted suspected criminal terrorism investigations .
**************“ NSO technology helped stop vicious crimes deadly terrorist attacks around world , ” company said statement . “ We tolerate misuse products regularly vet review contracts ensure used anything prevention investigation terrorism crime . ”
**************The company established ethics committee , decides whether sell spyware countries based human rights records reported global organizations like World Bank ’ human capital index , indicators . NSO would sell Turkey , example , poor record human rights , current former employees said .
**************But World Bank index , Turkey ranks higher Mexico Saudi Arabia , NSO clients . A spokesman Israel ’ Ministry Defense , needs authorize contract NSO wins foreign government , declined answer questions company .
**************A lawsuit alleged last year months death , Saudi Arabia used NSO products spy Mr. Khashoggi , Washington Post columnist strangled dismembered October Saudi operatives inside kingdom ’ consulate Istanbul . NSO denies accusation . Several Mr. Khashoggi ’ closest contacts targets NSO hacking tools , Citizen Lab reported . Without access Mr. Khashoggi ’ devices , researchers confirmed whether direct target NSO surveillance .
**************Even cases blatant abuse , NSO continued renew contracts government clients . In 2013 , instance , NSO inked first deal United Arab Emirates . Within year , Emirati government caught installing NSO spyware mobile phone Ahmed Mansoor , prominent human rights activist .
**************After receiving onslaught text messages containing links , Mr. Mansoor — frequent target Emirati surveillance — grew suspicious passed texts security researchers , determined links NSO lures exploited vulnerabilities Apple software take Mr. Mansoor ’ phone . It , researchers said , sophisticated spyware ever uncovered mobile device .
**************The discovery forced Apple release emergency patch . But , Mr. Mansoor already fired job , passport confiscated , car stolen , email hacked , location tracked , bank account emptied $ 140,000 , beaten strangers twice week .
**************“ You start believe every move watched . Your family starts panic , ” said interview arrested 2017 . “ I live . ”
**************Even U.A.E . caught spying Mr. Mansoor , leaked invoices showed NSO continued sell Emiratis millions dollars ’ worth spyware services . As Mr. Mansoor , sentenced 10 years prison damaging national unity held solitary confinement , health deteriorating .
**************A flurry news reports followed countries using NSO products spy citizens , prompting company temporarily rebrand “ Q , ” James Bond ’ gadget guru .
**************Despite bad news coverage , NSO ’ value continued skyrocket .
**************Francisco Partners , private equity firm , purchased 70 percent stake NSO $ 130 million 2013 . Last month , NSO ’ co-founders raised enough money buy back majority stake NSO valuation $ 1 billion . The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed deal — making major investors , including Oregon state employees ’ pension fund Alaska ’ sovereign wealth fund , part owners NSO , according public records .
**************The proliferation companies trying replicate NSO ’ success compete estimated $ 12 billion market so-called lawful intercept spyware set fierce competition hire American , Israeli Russian veterans world ’ sophisticated intelligence agencies — companies poach talent one another .
**************In late 2017 , NSO executives grew concerned spate resignations . Private detectives hired investigate soon found Mediterranean island Cyprus , tailing group former NSO employees — veterans Israel ’ Intelligence Unit 8200 — going back forth work research facility .
**************The building owned company affiliated DarkMatter , Emirati firm quietly hired Israelis develop technologies U.A.E . conduct cyberoperations perceived enemies home abroad .
**************DarkMatter also offices inside gleaming tower highway connecting Abu Dhabi Dubai , building houses U.A.E. ’ Signals Intelligence Agency , Emirates ’ version N.S.A .
**************This accident . DarkMatter effectively arm state worked directly Emirati intelligence operatives numerous missions hacking government ministries Turkey , Qatar Iran spying dissidents inside Emirates .
**************DarkMatter origins another company , American firm called CyberPoint years ago contracts U.A.E . help protect Emirates computer attacks . CyberPoint obtained license American government work Emiratis , necessary step intended regulate export military intelligence services . Many company ’ employees worked highly classified projects N.S.A . American intelligence agencies .
**************But Emiratis outsize ambitions repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees exceed boundaries company ’ American license . CyberPoint rebuffed requests Emirati intelligence operatives try crack encryption codes hack websites housed American servers — operations would run afoul American law .
**************So 2015 Emiratis founded DarkMatter — forming company bound United States law — lured least half-dozen American employees CyberPoint join . Marc Baier , former official N.S.A . unit carries advanced offensive cyberoperations , became one firm ’ top executives .
**************DarkMatter employed several former N.S.A . C.I.A . officers , according roster employees obtained The Times , making salaries hundreds thousands dollars year .
**************“ The assumption used left N.S.A. , ’ never kind offensive work . Now , clearly market , ” said Mr. Johnston , security expert . He worked military ’ Cyber Command , works closely N.S.A. , serving Marines .
**************“ The N.S.A . consider responsibility ensure hacking techniques taught employees used United States , ” said .
**************The company respond request comment , spokesman Emirati government . Asked whether ministry given license former Israeli intelligence operatives working DarkMatter , spokesman Israeli Ministry Defense declined comment . A lawyer Mr. Baier also declined comment .
**************Current former employees spy agency lifelong obligation protect United States ’ secrets , said Greg Julian , spokesman N.S.A . They also required report employment representation foreign governments two years leave agency , said .
**************Besides breaches foreign government ministries , DarkMatter also broke Gmail , Yahoo Hotmail accounts , according former employees . DarkMatter operatives posed family friends people targeted lure opening emails contained malware .
**************Former employees said DarkMatter targeted Mr. Mansoor , hacking child ’ baby monitor eavesdrop family . In another operation , company ’ operatives pursued Rori Donaghy , British activist critical Emirati government human rights record , also target NSO spyware . DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab , Canadian research organization , former employee said .
**************DarkMatter told employees spying American citizens would limits , proved empty pledge .
**************In one operation , previously reported , DarkMatter subsidiary began expansive effort intercept cellular communications Qatar , occasionally catching communications Americans surveillance net late 2015 . One American working project said raised concerns superiors , including former C.I.A . officer charge effort . The American , along another , pulled project asked sign nondisclosure agreement .
**************In repeated instances , DarkMatter collected information Americans , second former employee said . Most cases involved Americans worked foreign organizations — including human rights groups — DarkMatter targeted critical Emirati government , former employee said .
**************DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information , applications résumés belonging Americans applied work organizations . One former employee said collection accidental , records expunged company ’ databases .
**************In 2017 , former N.S.A . hacker began providing F.B.I . agents information company ’ activities , according Reuters report . Foreign Policy first reported F.B.I . investigation .
**************The informant , Lori Stroud , said become concerned company ’ surveillance Americans . She later left firm along several Americans could sure DarkMatter deliberately targeting citizens . Soon , F.B.I . agents began stopping American employees airports entered United States questioned DarkMatter ’ operations , according former company employees .
**************The Justice Department ’ case , run prosecutors Washington , focuses internet fraud possibly illegal transfer spying technology foreign country .
**************But prosecutors face headwinds , including diplomatic concerns jeopardizing United States ’ relationship U.A.E . — influential country developed close ties Trump administration — worries pursuing case could expose embarrassing details extent cooperation DarkMatter American intelligence agencies .
**************And reality American laws governing new age digital warfare murky , outdated , ill-equipped address rapid technological advances . The rules governing American intelligence military personnel provide foreign governments meant keep leash 20th-century warfare — selling missiles planes overseas training foreign forces Army tactics .
**************But address hacking skills honed front laptop , world ’ advanced intelligence agencies , sold highest bidder .
**************“ The worst part weapons easier get , ” said Brian Bartholomew , principal security researcher Kaspersky Lab , digital security company .
**************“ You ’ got lot people entering arena new ’ play rules , ” said . “ It ’ like putting military-grade weapon hands someone street . ”
**************An earlier version article misattributed source valuation market so-called lawful intercept spyware . The $ 12 billion market estimate cited Moody ’ originated company NSO , Moody ’ .
**************Scott Shane contributed reporting .
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Ashley Powers
**************One day 2015 , Barbara Lavender ’ husband returned U.F.O . conference handed business card . It bore red theater-curtain background , vintage microphone gold-and-white lettering read : “ Sean David Morton , Radio Host , Public Speaker , Author , Director , Screen Writer , Actor. ” The polymathic Mr. Morton , Jeff Lavender told wife , U.F.O . royalty .
**************Mr. Morton spent years whisking E.T.-obsessed tourists Area 51 $ 99 pop , leveraged following stints wee-hours conspiracy show “ Coast Coast AM ” — one point , nation ’ No . 3 talk-radio program . He dabbled fringe arts , remote viewing psychic predictions earthquakes , elections stock market . But time Mr . Lavender saw talk Southern California , Mr. Morton shifted something truly fantastical : instant debt relief .
**************He ’ peddling workshop called “ The Sovereign Factor : The Revolution Starts With You ” — nod known sovereign citizens movement . A loose network perhaps tens thousands far-right antigovernment extremists , sovereigns share certain conspiratorial beliefs , sometimes , desire profit government whose legitimacy deny .
**************“ Do realize , ” read Mr. Morton ’ workshop description , “ ALL considered ‘ Incompetent , ’ ‘ Wards State , ’ ‘ Residents ’ ‘ Chattel Property ’ US Federal government , declare Emancipation ? Learn secrets get government back life ! ! ” One secrets called “ bond process. ” By submitting right set papers , Mr. Morton said , could wipe mortgage , tax bills student loans .
**************Mr. Morton ’ message appeal beyond tinfoil-hat crowd . In America Great Recession , plenty people upside-down mortgages student debt inclined believe anyone offering help . Ms . Lavender , listening husband recap workshop , intrigued . Years earlier , ’ borrowed $ 48,000 help son attend college . She husband worked mortgage industry Southern California decades , educational debt unfamiliar terrain . “ I never gone college , ” told recently . “ I took loan I ’ have. ” Ms . Lavender lost job deferred payments , interest kept piling . By time held Mr. Morton ’ business card hands , owed $ 70,000 .
**************She realized U.F.O . gathering unusual venue debt-relief advice . Her husband ’ annual get-togethers “ X-Files ” crowd hobby , good-natured punch line family . But size intractability loan balance weighed ; also , trusted husband , thought Mr. Morton ’ bond process worth checking . She told , “ I think probably enticed might little tiny kick pants government . ”
**************As Lavenders came discover , sovereign fraudsters snake-oil salesmen time . Peddling bouquet grifts varied tax fraud real estate scams , prey suspicion institutions , financial illiteracy , greed despair . You ’ even buy sovereign dogma get swindled . You need , Ms . Lavender , debt . From 1990 2013 , far-right extremists carried 600 financial schemes resulted criminal charges , according researchers run U.S . Extremist Financial Crime Database , affiliated National Consortium Study Terrorism Responses Terrorism clearinghouse kind .
**************That adds — conservatively — public losses $ 1 billion . The majority perpetrators either sovereigns ideological cousins , tax defiers . Fraud cross-burning white supremacists : expression belief .
**************Sovereigns , sometimes call “ freemen ” “ state citizens , ” foundational document , broadly subscribe alternate version American history . The tale vary sovereign sovereign , goes roughly like : At point , corporation secretly usurped United States government , went bankrupt sought aid international bankers . As collateral , corporation offered financiers … us . As sovereigns tell , birth certificate Social Security card benign documents , contracts enslave .
**************There , believe , pathway freedom : Renounce contracts otherwise assert sovereignty . ( Mr. Morton said told Social Security Administration , “ I ’ want number. ” ) Then one — taxman , police — tell . Not sovereigns con men , belief system lends deceit . You might declare “ diplomat ” nonexistent country . ( Mr. Morton represented Republic New Lemuria Dominion Melchizedek . ) Or start fake Native American tribe . Or blow court case American flag courtroom gold fringe . Some sovereigns even lashed violently law enforcement officers , ’ considered domestic terrorism threat .
**************Many sovereign myths hark back creation , 1913 , Federal Reserve . “ It weird , complicated instrument controlling monetary system . People saw sinister , ” author J. M. Berger told . In recent paper , Mr. Berger traced circulation ideas , part , company named Omni Publications , something like Infowars middle 20th century . One Omni title , “ The Federal Reserve Conspiracy , ” claimed “ enemy aliens ” infiltrated banking system , biographies could found “ Who ’ Who American Jewry. ” ( Sovereign lore often rooted anti-Semitism . ) By 1970s , intellectual father sovereign citizen movement , William Potter Gale , helped spread type falsehood larger audience .
**************The founder antigovernment group Posse Comitatus , Mr. Gale aligned emerging movement tax protesters argued , instance , paying taxes form involuntary servitude . In turn , introduced warped version America , patriots establish legal system hang defy . Mr. Gale ’ specific gift wrapping nonsense enough legalese sounded real . “ If movement offers essentially lot magic words say get trouble , ’ going really appeal people desperate angry , ” Mr. Berger said . Mr. Gale ’ outreach success . Over time , line thousands tax protesters Posse members blurred .
**************Take “ redemption ” — theory popularized , part , Gale associate . Remember corporation-slash-fake-government used us collateral ? According sovereign lore , means government set secret accounts names . Some believe contain oddly specific amount $ 630,000 . ( To clear , “ pure fantasy , ” according Internal Revenue Service . )
**************One way sovereigns try make imaginary money real abusing legitimate I.R.S . forms . Law-abiding taxpayers use Form 1099-OID , example , report “ original issue discount ” income . But sovereigns write fake OID income , fake withholding , order claim illegitimate refunds . If file return , risk least large fine . Yet 2012 2014 , according Treasury Inspector General Tax Administration , I.R.S . received close 7,000 sham OID filings .
**************Chronically underfunded understaffed , I.R.S . investigators refer two dozen sovereign-scam cases , average , prosecution year . The agency sometimes misses returns raise suspicion . For example , 2016 , I.R.S . discovered sizable redemption scheme — processing 207 bogus returns disbursing $ 43 million . That ’ another reason strange theories persist , begun leach sovereign network general population : Sometimes , improbably , work .
**************Mr. Morton born 1958 , comfortable childhood Northern California tutorial make sales pitch . His mother , Maureen Kennedy Salaman , — San Francisco magazine described — “ millionaire evangelical alternative-medicine fanatic ” promoted questionable cancer treatments .
**************She also member John Birch Society , far-right group known paranoid anticommunism , stockpiled beans , grains ammunition case Russian invasion . In 1984 , chosen vice-presidential nominee Populist Party , favorite white supremacists . ( Its presidential candidate following cycle former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke . ) In acceptance speech , warned crowd : “ We ’ evil powerful conspiracy world ever known . ”
**************When Mr. Morton reached adulthood , sold unorthodox beliefs behind suburban-dad veneer : flop dark hair , round , clean-shaven face , button-down-and-khakis wardrobe . He charismatic also childlike , friends said , ego easily bruised . He branded investigative reporter within U.F.O . world , 1990s , Mr. Morton appeared “ The Montel Williams Show , ” made outrageous claims — 100 alien species visited Earth ! — certainty Nobel laureate . “ I got close enough one things floating around desert actually get face burned , ” said .
**************Even U.F.O . enthusiasts considered kook , Mr. Morton ’ fans ’ care . The truth — Sean David Morton . Branding prophet , plumbed new-age convention circuit alongside specialists animal telepathy , chakras , hauntings , angelic gemstone messages afterlife . Near end millennium , convention Las Vegas , blue-eyed , reddish-haired woman approached . Back Utah , Melissa Thomson grown Mormon home married 22 ; worked banking , spare time , doted pedigreed cats , even serving treasurer local Cat Fanciers group . The “ Coast Coast ” program escape , spent hours fan-girling Mr. Morton , frequent guest .
**************At Las Vegas convention , Ms. Thomson apparently one goal : meet idol . “ It love first sight , ” Mr. Morton said . She soon left husband joined Mr. Morton Southern California . Her oldest brother , Robert , told , “ The found , warned Melissa decent person . But promised movie roles ; ’ inherit Mommy ’ home Atherton , condo Tahoe . All could see dollars. ” When got married , family refused attend .
**************( Through lawyer , Ms. Morton declined comment . Mr. Morton respond multiple requests comment , although said YouTube last fall The New York Times conducting “ massive smear campaign ” . Unless otherwise noted , quotes article court records . )
**************The Mortons lived Hermosa Beach , surf spot 20 miles downtown Los Angeles . Next mini-palaces , oatmeal-colored apartment building resembled servants ’ quarters , short stroll Pacific Ocean . Mr. Morton welcomed new wife ’ bushy-tailed Norwegian forest cats — new litter arrived , dozen scampered around apartment — turn oversaw administrative side Sean David Morton . He shilled conspiracy fiction ( “ The Dark Prophet — Veil Anti-Christ ” ) ; CDs ( “ Everything You Wanted Know About Future Vol . 2 ” ) ; $ 65 newsletter thousands subscribers ( “ TOMORROW ’ S HEADLINES TODAY ! ” ) .
**************Either ’ particularly lucrative , ’ lucrative enough replicate Mr. Morton ’ childhood wealth . From outside , hard tell . “ He always asking try help something could raise money , ” said Susan Shumsky , fellow fixture new-age circuit . “ Like , ‘ Let ’ trip Peru I money . Let ’ tele-seminar I make money. ’ ” Ms. Morton ’ pedigreed kittens , sold hundreds dollars , apparently kept solvent . At various points , also dog-walked worked Disneyland . Their friend Will Chappell said , “ It leading charge , leading family . She necessary accomplish goals . ”
**************Early relationship , website called UFO Watchdog — “ Exposing Parasites , Delusional Personalities , Morons Frauds Currently Clouding UFO Issue ” — dismantled much Mr. Morton ’ official biography . Mr. Morton sued ; case dismissed . But email included case file , Ms. Morton waved findings : “ I would concerned Sean DIDN ’ T critics . Some greatest people history people attacking every step . It means Sean something right trying make difference world . ”
**************By 2006 , couple expecting windfall . Ms. Salaman poor health ; died , Mr. Morton assumed ’ inherit mother ’ fortune . But relationship , already frosty , iced final weeks . Ms. Salaman ’ even want son wife visit . She cut , even kept $ 100,000 trust Great Dane , Duke .
**************“ They went berserk , ” Ms. Morton ’ brother recalled . “ It ’ scam scam scam . ”
**************While sovereign citizen movement inherently organized , members firmament become known gurus , vectors spreading ideology . Mr. Morton often lectured Living Temple , new age shop south Hermosa Beach . The owner favored black T-shirt five flying saucers admonition “ KEEP LOOKING UP , ” yoga music ommed clutter apothecary bottles , bags herbal something , miracle-cleanse guidebooks crop-circle DVDs .
**************One day , likely 2008 , man named Brandon Adams started showing . Like Mr. Morton , budding sovereign amplifier — much younger untucked button-downs looked like attempt playing dress-up . His family ran local tax-prep business . “ His whole thing banks , ” Mr. Morton said later . “ What considered great criminal conspiracy Internal Revenue Service banking cartels. ” Mr. Morton quickly got speaking slot .
**************Some Mr. Adams ’ talks recorded . Pacing front dozen people , scribbling phrases stick figures whiteboard , wove dark tale . The secret bankruptcy . The people-as-collateral . Then , twist : The banks skimming money — “ fractionalizing ” — every transaction make . He told group could reclaim funds via Form 1099-OID .
**************From folding chair , Mr. Morton — looking grayer rounder “ Montel Williams ” days — asked Mr. Adams anyone really gotten big refund way . Yes , Mr. Adams said . “ The funny thing , watch quiet people start get ’ sure process start getting returns. ” Laughter . “ They ’ got mentality : ‘ I ’ going say I got two hundred fifty grand . ’ ”
**************The audience lapped . This America financial crisis : The banks bailed , homeowners , era Tea Party rallies Occupy Wall Street encampments imminent . It ’ much leap suspect Washington cahoots likes J.P. Morgan . Mr. Adams ’ Living Temple talks drew large enough crowds moved bigger venue sold private coaching $ 200 hour . “ It became movement , really , ” Mr. Morton said . ( Mr. Adams respond multiple requests comment . )
**************In spring 2009 , Mr. Adams ’ tutelage , Mortons tried OID scheme . Mr. Morton filed four years returns — 2005 2008 — claimed nearly $ 4 million refunds . His wife filed 2007 return claimed $ 12,000 . “ I never , ever , ever thought I breaking law , ” Mr. Morton later said . “ I thought law. ” His faith bolstered , April , got refund one returns : direct deposit Washington Mutual account $ 480,322.55 .
**************In 2010 , Securities Exchange Commission went Mortons different scheme — one connection sovereign ideology . Mr. Morton used unconventional celebrity years earlier begin investment club , would channel psychic powers predicting foreign currency markets . It ’ risky type trading , Mr. Morton bragged forecasts accurate even Henry Paulson , Treasury secretary , relied .
**************After hearing Mr. Morton promote fund “ Coast Coast , ” man Washington State invested $ 217,000 . An elderly New York woman parted $ 20,000 . “ He ’ promising stars , ” recalled Tim Saunders , Alaska electrician poured life savings $ 135,000 . “ Yeah , greed came , I felt I needed , quickly. ” In , 100 people invested $ 6 million . Mr. Morton sank half foreign-currency trading — nearly lost . At least $ 240,000 funneled nonprofit Mortons set , authorities ’ know rest . In 2013 , S.E.C . $ 11.5 million judgment . ( Ms. Morton relief defendant , meaning accused profiting scheme . )
**************The Mortons filed bankruptcy , repeatedly misled government — instance , claimed bank accounts . A court eventually denied discharge , meaning ’ get rid debt . They also tossed beach-adjacent apartment . “ Bottom line , ” Ms. Morton told bankruptcy trustee one day , “ I want able get decent job , nice place live , pay taxes , life back . ”
**************It around time Mortons turned hawking debt-erasing sovereign scheme known “ bond process. ” Over two years , helped people around country send nearly two dozen fake bonds I.R.S. , Quicken Loans , PennyMac , Bank America , Chase Bank treasurer ’ office Contra Costa County , California . Early 2015 , Barbara Lavender , woman whose husband met Mr. Morton U.F.O . conference , gave call .
**************Ms . Lavender 61 front-desk clerk adult school . When I met last year Hemet , Calif. , nearly 90 parched miles east Los Angeles , ranch-style home trimmed red Christmas lights . We chatted kitchen table , 14-year-old dog , Remy , curled feet . She explained spoke Mr. Morton phone , avoided talking sovereign ideology . Instead , said could purchase portion bond held — almost magically make educational loan disappear .
**************To wipe $ 70,000 balance , suggested Ms . Lavender send $ 2,500 , less 4 percent owed . She husband believed Mr. Morton discovered sort workaround rich people find . “ You know , ” testified later . “ You hear time : ‘ wealthy tax loopholes , ’ kind thing . ”
**************The bond looked authentically bureaucratic , formal scalloped border . It really certificate paper Office Depot . The accompanying paperwork said student loan company entitled paid back fund , reality , United States taps help stabilize foreign currencies . Mr. Morton said warned Ms . Lavender : “ Look , I ’ know going work . I ’ lawyer. ” He added , “ It ’ going depend whether accept . ”
**************A month Mortons mailed bond package , Ms . Lavender checked educational loan balance , saw ’ budged wrote Ms. Morton email . She ’ get response . Ms . Lavender sent follow-up follow-up . “ This beginning feel increasingly like scam , ” wrote October , “ bilked hard-earned money spare . ”
**************Ms. Morton finally replied said ’ recovering knee surgery . Ms . Lavender sent almost apologetic response . Her attention elsewhere — husband died suddenly brain mass . “ Once hear Sean , let know thinks next ? ” wrote . “ With husband gone , debt even greater burden main breadwinner . ”
**************Nothing came exchange . That winter , two men jackets showed Ms. Lavender ’ home questioned Mortons , bond process , outcome . Afterward , Ms . Lavender took one business cards nephew , works local sheriff ’ office . Yes , reassured . They really I.R.S .
**************On Jan. 31 , 2016 , nearly 200-foot-tall , white-and-blue cruise ship called Ruby Princess docked Port Los Angeles . About 100 guests board paid $ 3,000 marketed Conspira-Sea Cruise — weeklong jaunt Mexican waters American paranoia , “ Vaccinations : Do You Really Know What ’ Coming Through That Needle ? ” “ Conspiracy Steal Your Body Soul. ” As Mortons prepared disembark , arrested federal agents .
**************After years digging I.R.S . investigators , Mortons faced suite charges related tax filings fake bonds . Once Ruby Princess , Mr. Morton led workshop called “ From Fascism Freedom , ” separated , patted asked medications took . Mr. Morton said ask Melissa . An agent . “ Cyanide , ” said , seething . On way jail , added , “ Do favor tell Sean : ‘ Thank I ’ see next life . ’ ”
**************Their trial began Tax Day , 2017 . The prosecution told simple story greed . “ I submit I.R.S . slot machine , ” one prosecutor , Valerie Makarewicz , said . “ Keep hitting spin . Keep playing hit jackpot. ” The day Mortons got $ 480,322.55 refund , said , went bank drained nearly account . Once I.R.S . realized mistake tried recoup money , Mortons filed two rounds bogus returns set fake bonds .
**************Ms. Morton ’ lawyer presented good-faith defense . She thrall sovereign gurus , said , “ people kind strutted back forth stage answer everything. ” He showed jury 37 pages perfect-cursive notes Ms. Morton took Brandon Adams lecture . “ In courtroom , ’ obviously nonsense . But time , people believed , Melissa Morton believed . ”
**************Mr. Morton represented . “ I ’ rapist , thug , war criminal , ” said opening statement . “ I ’ run Nazi concentration camp murder millions children . ”
**************Serving lawyer also meant cross-examined witnesses . “ Are familiar bankruptcy United States 1933 ? ” asked government ’ fraud expert . It reference sovereign conspiracy theory .
**************“ No , ” witness said . “ I ’ . ”
**************During closing argument , trial ’ fourth day , Mr. Morton told jury Norwegian forest cats . Earlier week , said , wife tried save premature kitten . They stayed late , swaddled cloth , fed milk eye dropper . The kitten died anyway . Ask , implored jurors , “ Do send nice people care kittens raise cats jail forever ? ” The panel deliberated two hours . When returned , Ms. Morton greeted hopeful smile . The verdict : guilty counts . She fainted .
**************Around time , prominent sovereigns facing reckoning . A court permanently barred Mr. Adams preparing tax returns promoting OID scheme ; ended prison peddling fake money orders . Another guru Conspira-Sea Cruise named Winston Shrout ( workshop : “ Conspiracy Court System ” ) awaiting trial Oregon .
**************Mr. Morton ’ sentencing set June . But 11 a.m. hearing started , ’ show .
**************Agents spotted afternoon outside Domino ’ Hermosa Beach , gray hood sunglasses shrouding much face . He hopped white Ford Escape headed south . The next morning , tweeted plea donations : “ Melissa ( cats ) need help relocating . ”
**************Two months passed . Mr. Morton resurfaced via video friend ’ online talk show , “ Project Camelot ” ( “ Getting Truth Out One Whistleblower Time ” ) . His hair mussed , ’ startled awake , wore headset , black V-neck dark-rimmed glasses took .
**************His version “ hello ” ripping judge prosecutors “ biggest gang criminals ’ ever going see. ” Soon , turned attention impending solar eclipse . “ This one biggest turning points American history ! ” said . The video clocked 40,000 views . It vintage Sean David Morton , say impossible tell , anything , believed .
**************I asked Will Chappell , known Mortons decade , whether actual sovereign dogmatists . He said , “ She definitely believed story Sean telling . I believe Sean believed story telling . A little bit , I believed it. ” And , convictions ? “ Melissa , course , knowing knew , would gone long time ago . I think Sean would still done . He still thinks missed step . ”
**************The solar eclipse took place August , week Mr. Morton ’ on-the-lam interview . Though Ms. Morton promised court would contact fugitive husband , couple rendezvoused hotel outside Palm Springs . That morning , moon briefly blotted sun , Mr. Morton lounging poolside swim trunks , purple mountains arrayed , eclipse glasses side . An I.R.S . agent walked . It .
**************At sentencing , Ms. Morton distanced . “ I living embodiment ‘ love blind , ’ ” wrote judge . “ If I ever questioned teachings processes others , I told , I question others far smarter I ? There thousands attendees workshops seminars . It convincing , well-organized believable . How could thousands people wrong ? ” She sentenced two years prison filed appeal . Behind bars , passed time taking classes — résumé-writing , watercolor-painting , embroidery — watching Food Network ; recently transferred halfway house . Emails posted Project Camelot site suggest husband still touch .
**************Mr. Morton sentenced six years prison . He ’ representing appeal , court papers argued ’ “ improperly profiled ” “ terrorist sovereign citizen. ” On Project Camelot , ’ unrepentant — even sharing pardon request said sent President Trump .
**************“ It ’ work RADIO TV INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM DEEP STATE forces within D.O.J . put wife I prison YEARS ! ” wrote . Of course , suggestion correct injustice : donate PayPal account .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Raphael Minder
**************MADRID — The simmering conflict Catalan independence roared back center Spanish attention Tuesday , 12 people went trial roles botched secession attempt 2017 , Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez scrambled keep issue toppling government .
**************The eagerly anticipated trial Spanish Supreme Court Madrid drawn enormous attention broadcast live national television , could soon overshadowed political crisis unfolding blocks away , Parliament .
**************On Wednesday , Mr. Sánchez ’ minority Socialist government faces crucial parliamentary vote national budget . If majority lawmakers reject , including Catalan lawmakers far backed prime minister , almost certainly forced call elections .
**************With Spain ’ government hanging balance , Supreme Court intense pressure demonstrate remain impartial politics case ignited passions recriminations . The Catalan separatist leaders indicted charges include rebellion , holding independence referendum declaring independence October 2017 — moves Spanish courts ruled unconstitutional .
**************The secessionist conflict split Catalan society , also helped reshape Spain ’ politics . Mr. Sánchez came office unexpectedly June , winning vote no-confidence previous conservative government , backing Basque Catalan nationalist lawmakers .
**************To stay office , needs maintain support separatist parties governed Catalonia , wealthy northeastern region Spain , since 2015 . But Quim Torra , leader regional government , insisted party would back national budget unless Mr. Sánchez agreed consider another independence referendum , prime minister refused .
**************On Tuesday , María Jesús Montero , Spain ’ budget minister , told lawmakers trial conflict Catalonia “ polarized ” debate budget , insisted “ government cede blackmail ” separatist lawmakers .
**************“ We always betting political dialogue within constitutional framework , make clear framework — nothing outside constitutional order , ” said .
**************Mr. Sánchez ’ attempt renew political dialogue separatists recently labeled treason leader Spain ’ conservative party , Pablo Casado .
**************Almost every aspect criminal case subject intense political feuding , location trial — Madrid rather Barcelona — decision Spain ’ judiciary deny bail defendants keep prison since late 2017 .
**************The defendants ’ supporters see conditions reinforcing independence movement ’ complaints oppressive central government . Opponents secessionism , hand , hope prison sentences Catalan leaders deter illegal attempts break Spain .
**************Within main chamber frescoed Supreme Court building , built 18th century , panel seven justices 12 defendants listened opening arguments Tuesday . Oriol Junqueras , former deputy leader Catalonia , occupied frontbench .
**************Andreu Van den Eynde , lawyer Mr. Junqueras opened proceedings , cast case matter free expression , right protest right vote .
**************“ We make political defense , defend human values rights , ” Mr. Van den Eynde said . The defendants , argued , already faced legal proceeding “ every constitutional right restricted . ”
**************A handful indicted politicians missing trial , however , including Carles Puigdemont , former leader Catalonia , fled Brussels successfully resisted Spain ’ attempts extradite .
**************Outside Supreme Court building , television crews heavy police surveillance jostled space ; 600 journalists accredited cover trial .
**************In surrounding streets , protesters , carried Spanish flags , denounced Mr. Sánchez handling Catalan conflict called ouster — small echo anti-government demonstration drew tens thousands people Sunday .
**************“ I rely judges politicians ’ done put end attempt destroy Spain , ” said Santiago Pulido , house painter , held sign drawing two defendants devil ’ horns .
**************Some defendants face 25 years prison found guilty , sentences “ much heavier , ” Mr. Pulido said . “ They responsible dividing Spanish people making people fight within country — I think serious crime . ”
**************The trial expected last least three months . But budgetary defeat Wednesday could force Mr. Sánchez call elections summer , means could take place verdicts made public .
**************Opposition politicians want Mr. Sánchez hold general election May 26 , Spain already hold municipal regional elections , well votes European Parliament .
**************Speaking outside courtroom , Mr. Van den Eynde , defense lawyer , said trial views already politicized could influenced snap election .
**************“ We ’ trying stay focused trial , ” said , “ know politics change , everything change . ”
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Paul Mozur Austin Ramzy
**************HONG KONG — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei sued United States government Wednesday , arguing unfairly incorrectly banned security threat .
**************The lawsuit force government make case company public , could also leave Huawei vulnerable deeper scrutiny business practices relationship Chinese government .
**************The United States argued Huawei poses risk equipment could used Chinese authorities spy communications disrupt telecommunications networks . That position led major wireless carriers United States avoid Huawei ’ equipment .
**************Huawei denies allegations says lawsuit meant prove engage practices . The company ’ plans file lawsuit first reported Monday The New York Times .
**************“ The U.S. Congress repeatedly failed produce evidence support restrictions Huawei products , ” Guo Ping , Huawei ’ rotating chairman , said statement announcing filing lawsuit . “ We compelled take legal action proper last resort . ”
**************The lawsuit , filed United States District Court Plano , Tex. , Huawei American headquarters , argues part 2019 National Defense Authorization Act unconstitutional singles Huawei . The act bans government agencies contracting Huawei companies use company ’ equipment .
**************Huawei , China ’ biggest maker telecommunications equipment , pressure months United States authorities . Now , ’ striking back . The suit part markedly aggressive legal public relations offensive Huawei recently mounted push back spying accusations .
**************During news briefing broadcast official Huawei feed Twitter , Mr. Guo pulled punches .
**************“ The U.S. government long branded Huawei threat , hacked service stolen emails source code , ” said , referring National Security Agency documents provided former contractor Edward J. Snowden showed agency pried way Huawei ’ systems .
**************“ Still , U.S. government sparing effort smear company mislead public Huawei , ” added . The briefing , streamed Twitter — American internet platform blocked China — reached two million people .
**************In December , Meng Wanzhou , daughter Huawei ’ founder chief financial officer company , detained Canada behest United States , seeking extradite .
**************Her father , Ren Zhengfei , company ’ founder , since rejected claims daughter said would wait see President Trump would intervene case . Ms. Meng court week Vancouver , British Columbia , part extradition hearing .
**************In meantime , Huawei battled many customers nations said would pull back buying products . China also retaliated Canada detaining several Canadian citizens . This week , Canadian officials also complained China begun suspend import canola country .
**************Lu Kang , spokesman China ’ Ministry Foreign Affairs , said Thursday Chinese decision based discovery pests Canadian canola .
**************China long history interrupting trade countries middle diplomatic spats . In September 2010 , China halted export rare earth metals Japan two months dispute sovereignty cluster tiny islands Japan Taiwan . Weeks later , China suspended trade talks Norway halted import Norwegian salmon Nobel Peace Prize awarded Chinese dissident Norwegian committee .
**************Huawei ’ lawsuit argues singling company , Congress violated constitutional principles separation powers also bill attainder clause , prohibits legislation singles person entity punishment without trial .
**************“ The actual intended effect prohibitions bar Huawei significant segments U.S. market telecommunications equipment services , thereby inflicting immediate ongoing economic , competitive , reputational harms Huawei , ” company ’ lawyers wrote suit .
**************They added prohibitions carried without “ fair hearing opportunity rebut allegations , without opportunity escape . ”
**************The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab filed , ultimately lost , similar legal challenge two years ago . After Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies ban Kaspersky products systems , Congress codified directive law .
**************Kaspersky filed two lawsuits arguing singled punishment without trial . A judge ultimately dismissed lawsuits , pointing came legitimate desire protect American networks .
**************The Justice Department filed criminal charges Huawei January , cases focus company ’ connections evading American sanctions Iran theft intellectual property . Neither relates core question faced governments around world whether using Huawei ’ equipment new 5G networks causes security concerns .
**************The new lawsuit seeks focus question , push United States government make case . While Huawei unlikely reverse American opposition company , may hope win government officials countries , including Europe , probably following American lawsuit closely .
**************Debate security Huawei ’ systems come critical moment , countries around world preparing spend hundreds billions dollars expanding cellular networks next generation 5G technology .
**************The new networks faster speeds , also used connect bewildering number new sensors data-collection systems alongside smartphones . That would make vulnerabilities networks potentially serious cellular networks past .
**************Mr. Lu , Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman , expressed support Huawei ’ legal action .
**************“ We believe perfectly justified fully understandable companies safeguard legitimate rights interests legal means , ” said .
**************Many Chinese expressed support social media Huawei ’ legal stand United States . Some others noted sarcasm difficulties similar legal recourse companies individuals within China ’ system .
**************“ So sue government ? ” wrote one user Weibo , Chinese social media service . “ Interesting . All sudden I ’ thinking , actually I ’ dare think it. ” .
**************Keith Bradsher contributed reporting Shanghai . Zoe Mou contributed research Beijing , Qiqing Lin Shanghai .
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Associated Press
**************MOGADISHU , Somalia — Gunmen Islamist militant group stormed government building Somalia ’ capital , Mogadishu , suicide car bombing Saturday , killing least five people , including country ’ deputy labor minister , police said .
**************Somali security forces fought hourslong gun battle least five assailants retake control building , houses ministries labor works , police officer , Capt . Mohamed Hussein , said .
**************The Reuters news agency , citing police sources , put death toll end battle 15 .
**************Saqar Ibrahim Abdalla , Somalia ’ deputy minister labor social affairs , killed ground-floor office shortly gunmen stormed building , Captain Hussein said .
**************Saturday working day Somalia , dozens people believed building time attack .
**************The Shabab claimed responsibility attack building , far headquarters Somali intelligence agency . As attack unfolded , gunfire could heard building . White smoke billowed scene , witnesses said .
**************A similar attack targeting busy area Mogadishu February killed least 24 people . That attack also began pair car bombs exploding popular area Mogadishu Somalis relaxing restaurants .
**************The Shabab , links Al Qaeda , frequently carry suicide bombings targeting public places , hotels government offices . They Africa ’ active Islamist militant group , fighting years take power create Islamic state Somalia .
**************The group continues mount lethal attacks despite pushed Mogadishu , part African Union peacekeepers . It mostly operates rural areas country ’ south .
**************The group carried many deadly attacks neighboring Kenya retaliation Kenya ’ deployment 2011 peacekeepers Somalia .
**************The United States military carried number deadly airstrikes recent months Shabab .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************France Dispatch
**************By Adam Nossiter
**************BAYONNE , France — The government Paris disapproves . But local mayor ’ care . He says continue sheltering Africans crossing Spanish border France .
**************For Jean-René Etchegaray , mayor Bayonne , quiet refined city French Basque Country , 22 miles border , matter necessity humanitarian obligation .
**************Since Italy closed borders migrants France tried close border migrants coming Italy , Spain become prime gateway Europe migrants Africa , 57,000 arriving last year .
**************Many crossing France transiting Bayonne , place “ everything reasonable , ” Stendhal wrote mid-19th century .
**************But Mr. Etchegaray sees reasonable stance put war government President Emmanuel Macron , even mayor become case study front-line management Europe ’ migration crisis contradictions .
**************The mayor ’ necessarily want young men , predominantly French-speaking West African countries like Guinea , Mali Ivory Coast , hanging around forever . He also ’ want camping streets tall , old , half-timbered Basque houses nestled along slow-moving rivers .
**************But wants migrants exist , city , “ condition dignity , ” put . “ I ’ think I less , ” said .
**************So Mr. Etchegaray took young men streets , requisitioned old military barracks near train station , put camp beds , brought hot meals keeps place heated .
**************The young men greet warmly shows , several times day .
**************“ Good man , ” said one temporary guests , Abdul Sylla , 29-year-old Guinea harbors vague hopes studying . “ Close people . ”
**************Official France keeps wagging finger city ’ mayor .
**************It “ absolutely question ” state “ would give slightest aid ” mayor ’ shelter , Gilbert Payet , recently Mr. Macron ’ regional representative Interior Ministry , testily told local reporters last month .
**************The mayor unfazed .
**************“ I saw frontiers closing , far I ’ concerned , fundamental rights ’ trampled , ” Mr. Etchegaray said , evoking Bayonne ’ heritage refuge Jews fleeing Spanish Inquisition birthplace great Jewish jurist René Cassin , helped draft Universal Declaration Human Rights .
**************The French state ’ attitude toward mayor illustrates Mr. Macron ’ ambiguities subject migration .
**************germany
**************200 miles
**************Paris
**************switz .
**************France
**************Atlantic
**************Ocean
**************italy
**************Mediterranean Sea
**************spain
**************30 miles
**************Bayonne
**************Bay Biscay
**************france
**************Irun
**************basque country
**************spain
**************By The New York Times
**************On one hand , exalted France ’ humanitarian traditions asked police treat migrants fairness .
**************On , government refused admission migrant ships , put migrant rights advocates trial boasted many foreigners expelled turned back frontiers .
**************The Italians angrily accused French hypocrisy , Mr. Etchegaray used word .
**************“ The prefect said , ‘ No , , , , , ! ’ ” recalled Maïté Etcheverry , young volunteer runs shelter Bayonne .
**************But mayor merely carried — distributing blankets ; inquiring migrants ’ well-being ; paying center budget local agglomeration towns runs .
**************“ They said , ‘ You ’ going create pull factor even migrants , ’ ” Mr. Etchegaray said laugh interview office past week .
**************“ They said , ‘ You ’ going create another Calais , ’ ” said , referring squalid encampments northern France , since demolished , thousands migrants waited mud , cold misery , hoping get England .
**************So far , ’ turned way .
**************“ I ’ feel I ’ anything contrary law , ” Mr. Etchegaray said mildly .
**************“ Look , I ’ kind radical crazy person , ” continued , noting migrants stay days move .
**************He even moved bus stop low-cost travel services front shelter , make easier migrants leave . And went war bus company drivers demanding , illegally , Africans produce identity papers .
**************“ We squatters France supported City Hall , ” Ms. Etcheverry said , grinning .
**************“ That mayor , ’ deep prefect , visibly interior minister , ” said Ms. Etcheverry , law student . “ It ’ really kind extraordinary . ”
**************A self-described “ radical pro-Basque independence leftist , ” found political opposition 66-year-old center-right mayor . Not time .
**************The migrants come go center day , often arriving inconspicuous cars traffickers . The local police say seedy district around train station nearby Spanish border city Irún become hive trafficking .
**************One recent day , group six young African men backpacks hurried single file across plaza Irún flight stairs .
**************They bundled waiting car quickly drove . Watching plaza several spotters talking furtively phones . All happened right noses group Spanish police officers 20 yards away stir .
**************French Spanish officers wait opposite sides bridge crossing river separates Spain France corner . The border open , unless migrant — case might get stopped , checked sent back .
**************If migrants make shelter Bayonne , however , temporary refuge .
**************The local police enter courtyard converted shelter , long , low hall staffed volunteers stocked donations food clothing . The young men staying play scrabble lie quietly camp beds , grateful worst seems behind .
**************“ I never want see sea , ” said Ibrahima Doumbia , young Guinean crossed Mediterranean boat . “ I fright life . ”
**************With arrival cold weather fall , knew growing migrant population Bayonne could longer stay one city ’ main squares , people camping .
**************“ It cold raining , ’ ’ Mr. Etchegaray said . ‘ ‘ We ’ leave anymore . They cold , sick hungry . ”
**************The mayor formed plans initiative quickly . “ He came directly square , ” Ms. Etcheverry recalled , adding remembered saying , “ I ’ back half-hour . ”
**************When returned , led volunteers migrants underground parking lot municipal police — temporary solution something better could found .
**************“ He accompanied , showed toilets , ’ ’ Ms. Etcheverry recounted . “ He saw quiet , young people helping young people . But never imagined would end like , center financed municipality . ”
**************It mayor ’ duty , Mr. Etchegaray said .
**************“ The state ’ want know , ” added . “ But , I ’ got know . And emergency . ”
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Bits
**************By Jamie Condliffe
**************Hi . I ’ Jamie Condliffe . Greetings London . Here ’ look week ’ tech news .
**************There little fashionable 2019 desire curb Big Tech ’ power . But knowing far regulators go putting limits Silicon Valley ’ largest companies ’ straightforward .
**************At one extreme , calls break Big Tech . Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines week called . Ms. Warren , Massachusetts Democrat , argued companies ’ offer products platforms controlled ( like Apple ’ selling apps App Store — something Spotify called European regulators Wednesday ) . She also said would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions , Facebook ’ takeovers Instagram WhatsApp .
**************Her pitch ’ perfect , The New York Times ’ Kevin Roose pointed — ’ generic , misses easy wins overlooks big issues . But bold , inspiring rally cry Big Tech ’ biggest critics .
**************At end spectrum : tech companies . Ideally , likes Facebook Google would love perpetually operate lightly regulated world helped grow quickly . But even Mark Zuckerberg , Facebook ’ chief executive , acknowledged “ inevitable regulation ” testified House Energy Commerce Committee April .
**************There ’ plenty room extremes . Take , example , report published Wednesday British government , called overhaul antitrust policies Big Tech . Its main proposal : new regulator identify companies “ strategic market status , ” block activities — promoting products services search results belonging competitors ( hello , Google ! ) .
**************That , report ’ authors say , “ pro-business pro-consumer solution ” “ changing antitrust law drive breakup ” businesses .
**************So ’ right ? Mr. Zuckerberg , least says regulatory intervention inevitable . There ’ strong bipartisan support regulation . As line drawn , ’ harder say .
**************Breaking big companies ’ easy : It ’ expensive takes long time . And ’ always go plan . The last notable attempt , judge ruled two decades ago Microsoft cleaved violated antitrust law , overturned appeal . So Ms. Warren could work cut .
**************But may ultimately become question balancing ambition need . Is better gamble breaking big companies , guarantee new rules curb behavior ? That ’ something lawmakers going wrestle .
**************When OpenAI founded three years ago , huge goal : build artificial intelligence software capable human brain . Its founders said nonprofit noble ambitions — $ 1 billion funding backers pay way — public could trust build so-called general artificial intelligence .
**************Only , $ 1 billion ’ go far goals like . Huge computing resources big salaries attract talent burn cash . Actually , turns , profits might useful .
**************So , Wired reported , Open AI announced changing business model . To keep Facebook Google , created OpenAI L.P. , company take money investors need return profit , like venture funds . That make easier raise funds . Down line , might monetize technology develops . But company decided cap returns investors see — $ 100 every dollar invested .
**************One way think figure OpenAI deems 100-times return ethical margin building general A.I . — enough make feasible endeavor , much tar Big Tech brush . That reasoning clearly holds inhabit Silicon Valley . But interesting see profit cap enough put everyone ease .
**************On March 12 , 1989 , Tim Berners-Lee proposed idea linking digital files boss , Mike Sendall , called “ vague exciting. ” It ultimately became World Wide Web , 30 years later ’ left much love — hate — existence .
**************At event London ’ Science Museum Tuesday mark web ’ passage fourth decade , Mr. Berners-Lee asked might look like another 30 years . Here ’ said :
**************■ “ It ’ , I think , us try guess . ”
**************■ “ Look ’ happened last 30 years . The web changed really dramatically , lot ’ predicted . ”
**************■ “ What say web want . ”
**************■ “ We want web open . We want web royalty-free . We want web discrimination-free . ”
**************Worthy goals . And article wrote past week , Mr. Berners-Lee laid steps may required ensure happen :
**************■ “ Governments must translate laws regulations digital age . They must ensure markets remain competitive , innovative open . ”
**************■ “ Companies must ensure pursuit short-term profit expense human rights , democracy , scientific fact public safety . ”
**************■ “ Platforms products must designed privacy , diversity security mind . “
**************■ “ And important , citizens must hold companies governments accountable . ”
**************Thirty years , Mr. Sendall ’ analysis might apply equally well proposal , .
**************Elon Musk really dislikes whistle-blowers . According Businessweek , Mr. Musk , Tesla chief executive , set destroy one employee leaked details raw materials wastage company .
**************How Google pay executives accused misconduct ? Handsomely : Two shared total $ 135 million , according details emerged lawsuit week .
**************Who fund next wave tech start-ups ? That ’ millionaires created companies like Airbnb Uber go public .
**************You care TikTok . You might never use , could reshape social media know .
**************Scientists dropped smartphone blender . Because , apparently , best way work much cobalt , gold substances .
**************How disappear ( almost ) completely : A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps going dark staying online .
**************Silicon Valley wants build monument . To Silicon Valley , obviously .
**************Jamie Condliffe editor DealBook newsletter . He also writes weekly Bits newsletter . Follow Twitter : @ jme_c .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Vivian Yee Hwaida Saad
**************BEIRUT , Lebanon — Lebanon ’ newly formed government , gives Islamist movement Hezbollah key ministries , raised concerns country could run afoul sanctions United States prohibit material support Iran-backed group .
**************On Friday , United States warned Hezbollah propping agenda new position , includes key posts Lebanon ’ government , including Ministry Health .
**************American officials concerned Hezbollah use ministry provide state-subsidized health care patronage jobs supporters possibly even fighters , helping endure punishing American sanctions made difficult group offer usual social services Shiite Muslim base .
**************“ We call new government ensure resources services ministries provide support Hezbollah , ” said State Department spokesman , Robert Palladino .
**************As new cabinet coalesced Thursday nearly nine months political deadlock , assistant United States Treasury secretary terrorist financing , Marshall Billingslea , warned Hezbollah tried “ exploit ministries funnel money undertake activities support terrorist agenda , significant concerns . ”
**************Hezbollah expected gain strength government group allies expanded share seats Lebanon ’ parliamentary elections last May , significantly weakening Western-backed prime minister , Saad Hariri , bloc . Now control Health Ministry , fourth-largest budget government , ability embed Lebanese state institutions made bigger target elusive prey United States , designated terrorist group .
**************Lebanon ’ political system awards posts patronage spoils politicians different religious affiliations order maintain balance among country ’ 18 officially recognized religious sects . There long history ministers stripes using Health Ministry provide free subsidized health care supporters . Analysts believe Hezbollah may try , whether Shiite base , troublingly United States , Hezbollah fighters wounded Syrian civil war next door .
**************“ This yet another example Hezbollah openly holding Lebanon ’ security prosperity hostage , ” said Rachel Mikeska , spokeswoman American Embassy Lebanon . She added United States “ prepared take whatever actions necessary protect interests Lebanese people . ”
**************She declined say actions might . But analysts said possibilities ranged relatively restrained — reducing funding Health Ministry squeezing international donors , like World Health Organization , — dire . The United States could theoretically impose sanctions Lebanese hospitals , preventing export American medications Lebanon , cut American military aid Lebanese Army .
**************It unclear Hezbollah might Health Ministry Trump administration would consider violation sanctions law President Trump signed October . Analysts said Hezbollah may chosen Dr. Jamil Jabak , 63-year-old internist close ties Hezbollah , health minister try avoid direct sanctions ministry . Dr. Jabak member Hezbollah , said served personal physician group ’ leader .
**************“ Would Washington consider free health care Hezbollah members provided Health Ministry example ‘ significant financial support ? ’ ” wrote Michael Young , political observer journalist Carnegie Middle East Center Beirut , opinion column last year . “ It ’ difficult say would never . ”
**************The United States ’ various interests Lebanon often end conflict , including comes Hezbollah : It wants counter Iran proxies , also maintain Lebanon ’ stability war Syria continues burn ; also wants battle terrorism push back Russian influence Middle East .
**************Though Washington designated Hezbollah terrorist organization actions around world close relationship Iran , group also baked legitimate parts Lebanese state , making difficult United States target without also affecting rest country .
**************“ The debate U.S. Lebanon always prioritize balance competing priorities , ” said Firas Maksad , director Arabia Foundation , Washington-based think tank leans toward pro-Saudi Arabia anti-Iran policies .
**************On one side debate anti-Iran hard-liners , argue “ Iran Mediterranean , Hezbollah uses Lebanese political elite Lebanese government thin veil political cover , ” Mr. Maksad said .
**************Those voices , include Republicans Congress members Trump administration , may push cutting aid Lebanese Army — significant source support armed forces — well Health Ministry .
**************Opposing hawkish views , including much traditional foreign policy establishment , prefer measured response .
**************Given Lebanon ’ floundering economy political instability , Mr. Maksad said , “ ’ want whole place come down. ” ( The prospect economic collapse greatly increased pressure country ’ political factions strike power-sharing agreement . )
**************They also argue reducing military aid would leave room Russia , expanded influence across Middle East , make inroads Lebanon .
**************In general , sanctions financial tools come primary stick used United States Iran regional partners . On trip Beirut last week , Mr. Billingslea urged Lebanese officials exclude Hezbollah involvement country ’ banking financial sectors , called reforms would allow Lebanese authorities block freeze accounts associated group .
**************But Hezbollah continues expand influence Lebanese institutions , sanctions may prove overly blunt tool , hitting legitimate government services civilians addition party .
**************In past , Hezbollah played smaller role government , “ could easily separate Hezbollah state institutions , ” said Hanin Ghaddar , Lebanese-American analyst Washington Institute Near East Policy frequent critic Hezbollah .
**************Now , Hezbollah commanding broad swath government , asked , “ How keep stability Lebanese institutions going Hezbollah everything ? ”
**************But Kassem Qassir , Lebanese political analyst close Hezbollah , said concerns Hezbollah ’ dominance overblown .
**************“ Nobody sole control Lebanon , neither Hezbollah anybody else , ” said . “ Lebanon diverse country . ”
**************In televised interview Saturday , Hassan Nasrallah , organization ’ secretary general , said group intend meddle Lebanon ’ balance power .
**************But Mr. Maksad noted Hezbollah managed forge pacts Christian Sunni politicians well Shiite ones , held formation new government prime minister , Sunni , agreed allow Hezbollah ’ Sunni allies cabinet — unmistakable mark strength .
**************Of new faces 30-seat cabinet , Dr. Jabak , physician leading ministry closely watched West , attracted immediate attention .
**************“ I ’ belong political party , ” said radio interview Friday .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Julia Jacobs
**************Forty years ago , C-Span went live first public broadcast House Representatives chamber , giving Americans television-shaped window lawmakers behave ornate room history often made .
**************Ushering C-Span era March 19 , 1979 , Al Gore , representative Tennessee , pushed network ’ access Capitol .
**************“ From day forward , ” Mr. Gore said time , “ every member body must ask , many Americans listening debates made ? ”
**************Since day , C-Span debuted four employees , network become mainstay American politics . We spoke Susan Swain , one C-Span ’ two chief executives , birth network , Washington ’ initial resistance caught camera network adapted social media age .
**************This interview Ms. Swain , joined C-Span three years started , edited brevity clarity .
**************In moment Al Gore approached lectern House chamber C-Span went live , changed American politics ?
**************The fact people could actually see elected representatives living room — phones — fundamental change . In past , people might pull lever every two years member Congress , super engaged , might read newsletter came mail go occasional town hall meeting .
**************This meant time interested , could watch member Congress say . Prior television Congress , time members really got attention big names like Kennedy something outrageous , either positively negatively , member leadership .
**************Initially , lot resistance Washington idea C-Span broadcasting House floor debates . And Senate ’ allow C-Span another seven years . Why resistance ?
**************Members concerns cameras would swinging around taking pictures members focused attentively debates — heaven forbid — closing eyes second . Or today , perhaps might sending tweet .
**************One ways finally came bear created compromise members could live . The compromise House Representatives , speaker ’ office , would control cameras floor House . All rest Congress , press conferences hearings , ’ C-Span news organizations covering independently .
**************Every time ’ change speaker sent letter saying : ‘ Now ’ time . Allow C-Span journalistic organizations put cameras side side. ’ That argument continues go nowhere .
**************Were politicians self-conscious ’ appear camera ?
**************I think concern ’ control picture . The Senate finally acquiesced ’ classic story American politics .
**************The House coming people ’ living rooms via C-Span regularly nightly news could picked regularly nightly stories House . Television loves pictures , would stories House . The Senate becoming concerned becoming second-tier citizen Congress .
**************The person really instrumental Senator Robert Byrd West Virginia , one old-line members much institutionalist much concerned Senate would change . He went home West Virginia speak introduced West Virginia , home state , speaker House . And ’ big shock white hair , then-Speaker House Tip O ’ Neill . And brought home . So convinced recalcitrant members , vote C-Span went June 1986 .
**************What one significant memories time C-Span ?
**************The day Challenger shuttle exploded televising live , I believe I air shuttle going . And became clear watched picture shuttle major catastrophe .
**************We sat watched long NASA took pictures , story began unfold . Then opened phone lines . There incredible outpouring around country people witnessing absolute tragedy , human tragedy also technological tragedy unfold front eyes .
**************C-Span given politicians platform connect directly constituents , social media . Is C-Span still relevant ?
**************C-Span ’ relevance comes form events cover every day within minutes televise , digitized stored video archives . It 250,000 hours political video ’ covered since 1987 .
**************That means member Congress pull clip hearing send constituents . It also means people social media late-night comedians immediate access .
**************I think people 20s younger , experience C-Span social media , late-night comedians . The creation video library 1987 every bit significant original creation C-Span .
**************C-Span long fought cameras allowed Supreme Court chamber . What chances ’ succeed ?
**************I feel little bit like ’ Sisyphus pushing rock hill . What documented years people nominated Supreme Court go committee hearings expressing open mind concept , get inside chamber nine , manage convinced others would detrimental institution .
**************We keep hoping generations change younger appointees come familiar media even social media , attitude change . But institution continues prevail .
**************Follow Julia Jacobs Twitter : @ juliarebeccaj .
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Benjamin Mueller
**************LONDON — Britain ’ tottering efforts leave European Union remained impasse Thursday allies Prime Minister Theresa May tried keep deal alive face unbending opposition .
**************The deal , already defeated twice Parliament , given new life Wednesday Mrs. May promised Conservative Party colleagues hard-line supporters leaving bloc would step passed , let someone else take next stage talks Brussels process known Brexit .
**************[ Who could Britain ’ next prime minister ? Here contenders . ]
**************But even offer resign enough assuage hard-line Conservatives putative allies Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland , D.U.P. , hate deal .
**************So government tried new tack Thursday : Ministers said would disassemble Mrs. May ’ deal two parts — one called withdrawal agreement , political declaration — ask Parliament vote Friday first .
**************The withdrawal agreement outlines terms Britain ’ exit European Union , political declaration deals tangled question future relationship bloc .
**************The basics Brexit , troubled plan Britain quit European Union .
**************The speaker House Commons , John Bercow , said would allow Parliament vote plan changed substantially since rejected resoundingly — twice — Thursday said government met test .
**************Ministers pitching vote pro-Brexit hard-liners last opportunity secure Britain ’ exit European Union coming months , lest pro-Europeans Parliament take control try frustrate Brexit force longer delay .
**************Ministers also hoped date vote — March 29 , originally scheduled day Britain ’ exit — would put symbolic pressure pro-Brexit Conservatives swallow objections back Mrs. May .
**************But withdrawal agreement contains contentious pieces Mrs. May ’ plan .
**************Among so-called backstop least temporarily binds Britain , greater extent , Northern Ireland European trading rules avoid customs checks historically contentious border Ireland , part European Union , Northern Ireland , part United Kingdom .
**************Unionists Northern Ireland reject backstop believe would create regulatory differences Northern Ireland rest United Kingdom , putting union risk .
**************And British news media reports late Thursday said unionists intended vote Mrs. May ’ plan Friday , considerably narrowing prime minister ’ path victory .
**************There hope among Conservatives splitting Mrs. May ’ plan two would strengthen case opposition Labour lawmakers , whose main objections political declaration withdrawal agreement .
**************But Labour leaders reacted angrily idea Thursday , noting Mrs. May previously said two pieces plan inextricably linked .
**************Keir Starmer , senior Labour official , warned Thursday splitting “ would leave us blindest blindfold Brexits. ” He referring Labour ’ fear , Parliament passed part Mrs. May ’ plan prime minister resigned , hard-line pro-Brexit politician like Boris Johnson would take shape crucial next stage negotiations .
**************Stephen Doughty , Labour member Parliament , said , “ This looks like trickery highest order . ”
**************Confusion swirled day Parliament government ’ plans , ministers leaving lawmakers dark would voting Friday late afternoon .
**************At time , anti-Brexit lawmakers working behind scenes pick alternate plans put Parliament Monday , case Mrs. May ’ deal pass .
**************The anti-Brexit lawmakers buoyed votes Parliament Wednesday night catalog proposals clashed Mrs. May ’ .
**************Those included once-radical ideas like holding second public vote Brexit revoking Britain ’ decision leave altogether , well Brexit plans would see Britain keep closer ties Europe Mrs. May ’ proposal envisioned .
**************The votes represented first time two years Brexit negotiations Parliament allowed express feelings alternate plans , lawmakers hoped would show path compromise .
**************But chagrin Mrs. May ’ opponents , eight alternate plans failed muster majority , leading British newspaper The Guardian run headline front page Thursday : “ No . No . No . No . No . No . No . No . ”
**************Some proposals got close . A plan customs union Britain European Union lost six votes . ( Mr. Bercow said tallying error originally led say eight-vote margin . )
**************And option holding another referendum test Britons ’ views leaving bloc attracted support expected : 268 members voted favor , 295 .
**************The result proposal second referendum , coming weekend hundreds thousands people marched London another vote five million signed petition asking cancel Brexit , sign views anti-Brexit politicians grown intense process drags .
**************The nonbinding votes set stage another round debate Parliament Monday , menu alternate options whittled politicians given second chance coalesce behind new plan .
**************If Mrs. May ’ withdrawal agreement passes Friday , Parliament would meet European Union ’ deadline completing Brexit process extracting Britain bloc May 22 .
**************If , Britain could crash bloc without deal April 12 analysts say would calamitous exit , could ask longer extension .
**************Mrs. May ’ offer resign another reminder , anxiety Britain Brexit , Conservative Party politics still dictated large degree members ’ leadership ambitions .
**************Pro-Brexit politicians like Mr. Johnson long angling take Mrs. May , chance sooner rather later seemed enough many back months fierce opposition deal .
**************Mr. Johnson said Mrs. May ’ deal strapped “ suicide vest ” around country . Another hard-line pro-Brexit lawmaker , Jacob Rees-Mogg , said prime minister ’ plan would turn Britain “ slave state . ”
**************On Wednesday , said would back deal .
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Jim Tankersley Patricia Cohen
**************WASHINGTON — The longest government shutdown United States history resulted “ shocking ” number taxpayers ’ calls Internal Revenue Service going unreturned left languish hold unusually long periods , according government audit released Tuesday .
**************The audit , office National Taxpayer Advocate , found five million pieces mail went unanswered 87,000 amended tax returns processed shutdown , thousands I.R.S . workers furloughed working without pay .
**************The issues especially acute since followed significant changes tax code — ushered President Trump ’ $ 1.5 trillion tax overhaul — left many people questions filing returns .
**************The problems continued even shutdown , audit found . In week ended Feb. 2 , shortly agency employees returned jobs , fewer half calls I.R.S. ’ accounts-management lines answered , compared nearly 90 percent week last year . The typical hold time callers increased 17 minutes four minutes 2018 .
**************There similar frustrations called agency ’ so-called balance-due line hopes making payment arrangements taxes owed . Fewer 7 percent calls answered , typical wait stretched 80 minutes .
**************I.R.S . officials said reviewing taxpayer advocate ’ findings .
**************“ We continuing assess impact shutdown various operations across agency remain proud many I.R.S . employees risen resulting challenges , ” agency said statement . “ The I.R.S . committed continue making improvements across information technology , tax enforcement taxpayer service operations . ”
**************Data released agency last week showed Americans filed 12 percent fewer returns Feb. 2 , compared point 2018 , I.R.S . processed 26 percent fewer returns . The agency given indication — Tuesday ’ statement otherwise — might consider pushing back April ’ tax filing deadline order account shutdown-related snags .
**************The taxpayer advocate ’ audit focus solely shutdown ’ impact reflected effort office , led Nina E. Olson , capture typical taxpayer experience dealing I.R.S . The audit said many Americans ’ feelings process could boiled two words : “ extreme frustration . ”
**************The audit found policy change made Trump administration intended simplify tax-filing process — creation “ postcard size ” 1040 form — made filing difficult new form include much information many taxpayers need complete returns .
**************“ The new schedules force taxpayers cross-reference transfer data credits , deductions income , increasing potential errors occur since tax information dispersed many pages needs tracked reported different schedules forms , ” report says .
**************The problems became apparent 35-day shutdown , ended Jan. 25 , underscored agency ’ deeper flaws , including reliance 1960s-era technology , audit found . The systems contain official record taxpayer accounts oldest federal government .
**************“ For last 25 years I.R.S . tried — unable — replace , ” audit says , citing budgetary constraints .
**************The outdated systems deprive I.R.S . comprehensive view taxpayers ’ accounts , hampering agency ’ ability properly identify targeted outreach , collections audits .
**************Inadequate financing primary cause agency ’ failings , audit found . Congress long beat I.R.S. , routinely condemning performance cutting budget . For example , money technology improvements 2018 fiscal year reduced 62 percent , $ 110 million , year .
**************Taxpayers called I.R.S . last fall advice new tax law would affect frequently told “ tax law personnel time due budgetary cuts ” disconnected , audit found . Part reason decision agency answer tax law questions three half months January tax filing day .
**************A lack information also meant vast majority taxpayers eligible use free software file returns electronically take advantage program . Of 106 million taxpayers could qualify free program , fewer 2.5 million use .
**************Because editing error , earlier version article referred imprecisely 62 percent reduction financing Internal Revenue Service 2018 fiscal year . It applied technology improvements specifically , general improvements .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Dan Bilefsky
**************MONTREAL — Canadian diplomats posted Cuba suing government , claiming failed protect respond robustly mysterious illness acquired stationed Cuba .
**************The illness , known Havana Syndrome , affected dozens American Canadian diplomats posted Cuba , come symptoms like memory loss , sleep disturbance nosebleeds , saying heard strange high-pitched sound .
**************The suit , filed week federal court Toronto , says Canadian government slow respond provide sufficient medical treatment diplomats children targeted 2017 strange “ debilitating attacks ” resulted brain injuries without evident physical trauma .
**************Paul Miller , lawyer representing 14 diplomats , spouses children suing , compared attack preceded illnesses “ science fiction horror film . ”
**************He said plaintiffs seeking 28 million Canadian dollars damages .
**************“ It tragedy diplomats kids lifelong trauma attacks , ” said .
**************The plaintiffs identified pseudonyms “ sensitivities related work , nature injuries concerns expressed Canada relating , ” according suit .
**************The murky circumstances illness drawn international speculation . Neither United States Canada determined cause , leading speculation kind microwave weapon could involved .
**************Last month , Canadian government said would withdraw half diplomatic staff Cuba another employee fell ill condition , said affected 14 Canadian employees , spouses dependents .
**************So far , 26 Americans affected similar illnesses , according State Department .
**************Speaking reporters Washington Wednesday evening , Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland declined comment specifics case . But said met diplomats affected , health safety priority .
**************“ It ’ privilege serve Canada around world , ’ also really hard , ’ something whole families , ” said . “ I ’ really concerned , Canada ’ utmost sympathy support . ”
**************One Canadian career diplomat party suit , said family ’ lives turned upside-down . The diplomat , requested anonymity still worked government , said stationed Cuba 2017 suddenly fell ill debilitating headaches , initially attributed stress .
**************After hearing American cases Havana Syndrome , said connected symptoms high-pitched noises coming backyard .
**************She said 10-year-old daughter affected well , waking heavy nosebleed later suffering headaches forced miss school .
**************She said Canadian government waited months seeking treatment diplomats prevented warning colleagues posted Cuba .
**************The diplomat said emotional trauma suffering mysterious illness exacerbated feeling government believe .
**************The suit contends , despite knowing risks similar attacks American diplomats 2016 , Canada continued send diplomats Havana . It accused government playing seriousness situation , leaving victims “ contend rumors faking . ”
**************The plaintiffs also contend government restricted information could share doctors , tried stop University Pennsylvania Center Brain Injury Repair , studying syndrome , testing Canadians .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Dave Philipps
**************SHREVEPORT , La . — Transgender troops like Senior Airman Sterling Crutcher seen “ unreasonable burden ” Trump administration . It says presence hurts morale military ’ ability fight , place uniform .
**************That ’ news Airman Crutcher . He got back deployment B-52 bomber squadron , , fellow airmen squadron , counts among best friends , threw shower wife , Aimee , celebrate first child , born February .
**************[ Sign weekly At War newsletter receive stories duty , conflict consequence . ]
**************“ At level , ’ issue , ” Airman Crutcher , 30 , said serving transgender . “ I meet exceed standards , people I work , like . They lot questions , ’ problem . ”
**************This uneasy time transgender troops United States military , caught commander chief wants court injunctions , least temporarily , said could stay . ( The last injunctions lifted Thursday . )
**************But dozens transgender troops like Airman Crutcher said interviews felt supported service . Their comrades commanders welcomed , said , military often accepting homes neighborhoods left enlist .
**************Nearly 1,000 troops officially deemed transgender currently serving American military , according Defense Department , another 228 process enlisting . They globe wide spectrum roles — infantry officers , armor platoon leaders , drill sergeants , intelligence specialists , Arabic linguists , nuclear reactor operators . A transgender instructor teaches leadership Naval Academy .
**************They started coming publicly 2016 military lifted longtime ban , concluding would significant negative impact budgets operations . But President Trump announced abrupt reversal policy Twitter year later , saying would longer allow transgender troops serve “ capacity . ”
**************The Defense Department laid arguments excluding transgender troops House Armed Services Committee late last month . James N. Stewart , senior Pentagon official , testified transgender troops prone mental health issues troops , transition , medical treatments make nondeployable months — factors said would make recruits ineligible serve stemmed kinds pre-existing health conditions .
**************Mr. Stewart , retired Air Force general , rejected calling policy ban , saying policy drafted president ’ Twitter announcement still allows transgender troops serve , long never transition .
**************He argued troops transitioned ranks could also raise complicated questions physical fitness standards access shower bathroom facilities may upset others , leading “ unnecessary debilitating leadership challenges . ”
**************Other troops military leaders disagree . Five transgender troops also testified hearing said , aside uncertainty created change policy , encountered problems transitioning uniform . Instances harassment , according Sparta , association transgender troops .
**************And testimony Senate last spring , heads Army , Navy , Air Force Marine Corps said aware issues caused transgender troops serving openly .
**************Airman Crutcher says people outside unit realize transgender . He relaxes weekends playing video games Airsoft gun battles troops unit .
**************“ There ’ nothing remarkable either way , ” said Senior Airman Kyle Daily , serves squadron . “ There people unit ’ agree , ’ minority . ”
**************Many transgender recruits come socially conservative small towns strict religious upbringings , spent youth feeling like misfits . Some troops born anatomically male said interviews enlisted initial hope military service would drum feminine feelings .
**************“ I hoped would straighten — I ’ want family hate , ” said Aylanna Anderson , Air Force staff sergeant raised Catholic tiny West Texas town became Eagle Scout . “ I hoped I could leave I saw dark part behind . ”
**************To surprise , enlisting 2012 , Sergeant Anderson said , found culture emphasized judging people ability , identity . She began transition female 2017 .
**************“ The military freeing , ” said phone Kunsan Air Base South Korea , repairs electronics F-16 fighters . “ I ’ know I could done otherwise . ”
**************Airman Crutcher , grew Pentecostal household rural Missouri , said wrote heartfelt letter family lifelong sense boy girl ’ body , refused read , asking instead drugs .
**************By contrast , came Air Force commander , said reaction , “ What I need ? I want make sure supported . ”
**************A days back deployment Guam bomber squadron , shopping crib pregnant wife got text mother .
**************But ’ birth mother , says essentially disowned told 2015 transgender . It Air Force mother — Kim Thomas , wife lieutenant colonel , informally adopted meeting basic training . He spends holidays family calls Mom .
**************“ She ’ best , ” Airman Crutcher said leaned wife ’ phone see photo Ms. Thomas sent new outfit baby . “ It life-changing support family love matter . ”
**************Ms. Thomas said taking Airman Crutcher wing came naturally . “ Here amazing kid volunteered fight die country , ” said . “ We going allow go military without support . ”
**************A 2016 RAND Corporation study found nearly one-fifth transgender troops plan transition medically . Those transition may , depending gender preference , undergo hormone therapy , breast removal procedures , like surgery make facial features voices gender appropriate . All covered military .
**************Transitioning troops also request surgery change genitals , approval process recovery time lengthy . The Defense Department respond questions many gender reassignment procedures performed troops since ban lifted 2016 ; Sparta estimates figure six .
**************The cost disruption associated surgery chief complaint critics , RAND study estimated factors would negligible , fewer 200 active troops transitioning per year total cost less $ 10 million . In interviews , troops transitioned said tried time surgical procedures scheduled lulls unit activity , sometimes put deployments demanding work assignments .
**************Even , transitioning detour careers . Some Sparta members said removed sensitive jobs pilots , air traffic controllers nuclear missile operators , concern might mentally unstable .
**************Regulations get way , well . Airman Crutcher sent home early 2016 deployment Qatar medical staff discovered testosterone treatments receiving violated rule injected medications troops deployed region .
**************“ I crushed , ” said . “ My major called said fought stay , regulations . ”
**************Capt . Alivia Stehlik transgender woman graduated West Point man 2008 , completed Army ’ punishing Ranger School led infantry platoon . She Army physical therapist stationed Fort Carson , Colo .
**************In interview home , said transition seen asset , burden .
**************She volunteered deploy Afghanistan infantry brigade last spring unit ’ regular physical therapist became pregnant . Captain Stehlik spent nearly year hopping helicopters base base , treating sprains injuries medical bag one hand M-4 rifle .
**************Six-foot-three broad-shouldered , said would pretty obvious 1,700 soldiers treated transgender , never problem .
**************“ It ’ woman I still job I man — I actually better , ” Captain Stehlik said . “ People actually open I made vulnerable . I think I still guy , might downplayed much things hurt , tried act tough . And I might , . ”
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Elizabeth A. Harris
**************The United States Copyright Office said dance first popularized TV show “ The Fresh Prince Bel-Air ” could copyrighted actor created , according court documents filed week .
**************Alfonso Ribeiro , actor played Carlton show , one several performers sued video game makers recent months saying dances , purchased performed avatars games , stolen . Mr. Ribeiro sued Epic Games , maker Fortnite Battle Royale , well Take-Two Interactive Software , makes NBA 2K16 .
**************But copyright office convinced Mr. Ribeiro called Carlton Dance — enthusiastically swings arms sways hips — eligible copyright protection , saying “ simple routine , ” complex enough clear bar .
**************“ That surprise least , ” said Robert Brauneis , co-director intellectual property program George Washington University Law School .
**************“ It ’ like word short phrase , ” Professor Brauneis said . “ The copyright office always taken position words phrases copyrightable , exactly like word phrase dance . You could repeat word phrase indefinitely — I ’ shaking hips , I ’ shaking hips , — repetition ’ make fragment subject copyright protection . ”
**************Courts bound copyright office ’ decision could reach different conclusion , Professor Brauneis said copyright office ’ determination would taken consideration .
**************Mr. Ribeiro ’ lawyer , David L. Hecht , said planned ask copyright office reconsider , even individual movements considered simple , way clients arranged movements considered choreographic works .
**************“ It ’ combine notes musical composition , ” said . “ Those compilations would entitled copyright protection law . ”
**************Mr. Hecht said Mr. Ribeiro submitted three copyright applications . Two rejected one still consideration . Mr. Hecht said request copyright rapper 2 Milly rejected tried register Milly Rock , ask copyright office reconsider . But clients better luck . Russell Horning , teenager known “ Backpack Kid , ” able register office 30-second dance Mr. Hecht described “ variant ” dance called Floss .
**************Epic Games Take-Two Interactive declined comment Friday .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Richard Pérez-Peña Stephen Castle
**************LONDON — A small influential party aligned Prime Minister Theresa May ’ government suggested Friday still support plan Britain ’ departure European Union , development could doom hopes persuading Parliament pass deal next week third try .
**************The Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland holds 10 seats 650-seat House Commons . But central sticking point talks British withdrawal handle border Northern Ireland Ireland , party ’ position carries disproportionate weight others Parliament .
**************Parliament twice rejected agreement Mrs. May negotiated European Union Britain ’ departure , known Brexit , times D.U.P . voted , largely concerns border issue .
**************If Parliament rejects deal , still possibility cliff-edge Brexit short term much longer delay renegotiate agreement leave .
**************Mrs. May ’ position appears grow precarious day — chances winning approval Brexit deal , hold power . Longstanding talk could ousted party , Parliament whole , intensified , becoming constant rumble background says .
**************On Tuesday , speaker House Commons , John Bercow , ruled could bring plan vote third time without substantive change . On Wednesday , delivered speech blaming Parliament paralysis , angering lawmakers sides .
**************On Thursday , European Union leaders agreed postpone March 29 departure date , rejected prime minister ’ request three-month delay , giving next week win parliamentary approval deal come alternative April 12 .
**************If deal agreed Parliament , Britain ’ exit pushed back May 22 . On Friday came blow Democratic Unionist Party , Monday , lawmakers try seize control Brexit policy Mrs. May .
**************Nigel Dodds , leader D.U.P. ’ caucus Parliament , said statement posted party ’ website “ inexcusable ” Mrs. May met bloc ’ leaders major concessions .
**************“ The government far willing capitulate securing necessary changes would get agreement House Commons , ” said .
**************His party many others support withdrawal contend Mrs. May ’ deal could leave Britain trapped , making subject European Union economic rules indefinitely . And treating Northern Ireland differently rest nation , say , deal risks splitting United Kingdom apart .
**************“ Nothing changed far Withdrawal Agreement concerned , ” Mr. Dodds said . “ We accept deal poses long-term risk constitutional economic integrity United Kingdom . ”
**************Mrs. May planned try third vote Parliament , would need win votes 70 members . That considered tall order even Mr. Dodds ’ message , several Brexit supporters prime minister ’ Conservative Party said would follow D.U.P. ’ lead .
**************She still days win critics , unlikely take Mr. Dodds ’ statement party ’ final word . But another blow , capping frenetic week setbacks .
**************With Mrs. May ’ leadership questioned fellow Conservatives , third rejection plan would increase pressure resign . Her shifting signals might proceed defeat alienated lawmakers .
**************She little room error . Conservatives short majority , able govern — recently — support Democratic Unionists .
**************On Monday , Parliament scheduled consider could first major step toward taking control process away government . It vote whether hold rapid-fire series votes specific alternatives plan .
**************A similar proposal defeated last week , two votes , 314 312 , Mrs. May ’ standing improved since .
**************Having Parliament state preferences could allow form cross-party consensus emerge favor form Brexit keeps closer ties European Union Mrs. May , party , would like . That would require reopening negotiations bloc , would mean long delay .
**************European leaders made clear doubt Parliament approve Mrs. May ’ plan , one reason willing grant short postponement . The extension makes April 12 new date Britain leave union , Parliament rejects deal Mrs. May create credible alternative .
**************Leaving without pact place Europe would upend Britain ’ trade relationships , experts say would serious economic damage — prospect prime minister used pressure want soft Brexit Brexit .
**************But hard-core Brexit supporters like idea “ no-deal ” withdrawal , insist predictions harm wrong , leaving little incentive support Mrs. May .
**************Meanwhile , pro-European Conservatives , regard abrupt chaotic departure dread , may motivated turn vote Monday exert parliamentary control .
**************Under new timetable , Parliament approves Mrs. May ’ deal , Brexit take effect May 22 , giving Britain time work details .
**************The alternative , European Union officials said , long delay , possibly two years , Britain rethink position , possibly , restart negotiations .
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Maggie Astor
**************The House Oversight Reform Committee investigating allegations voter suppression Georgia Secretary State Brian Kemp , since become governor .
**************The investigation revealed letters committee ’ Democratic leaders sent Wednesday Mr. Kemp successor secretary state , Brad Raffensperger . The letters instructed Mr. Kemp Mr. Raffensperger — Republicans — provide March 20 wide range documents concerning voter roll purges ; holds placed voter registration applications ; polling site changes closings ; voting-related issues .
**************The committee also requested documents related potential conflict interest Mr. Kemp faced administering election candidate .
**************“ The Committee particularly concerned reports Georgians faced unprecedented challenges registering vote significant barriers casting votes tenure secretary state 2018 election , ” Representatives Elijah E. Cummings , committee chairman , Jamie Raskin , head Subcommittee Civil Rights Civil Liberties , wrote Mr. Kemp .
**************Mr. Kemp Republicans committee immediately dismissed investigation political effort , aimed undermining results election Democrats lost .
**************[ Make sense people , issues ideas shaping American politics newsletter . ]
**************The letter outlined several points scrutiny 2018 governor ’ race , Stacey Abrams , Democrat , posed strong challenge Mr. Kemp normally solidly Republican state .
**************Many voters , especially heavily African-American counties , waited polling places hours “ hundreds available voting machines sat unused government warehouses , ” letter noted . State officials sequestered machines response federal lawsuit said vulnerable hacking .
**************Tens thousands voter registration applications , mostly African-Americans , held state law requires name application exactly match name applicant ’ government ID ; even missing hyphen cause problems .
**************Mr. Kemp ’ office purged 1.4 million voters rolls tenure . ( States required keep rolls up-to-date remove people moved , , including Georgia , much zealous others , starting purging process basis voter cast ballot recently . ) And county state officials closed 200 polling places 2012 2018 .
**************Throughout campaign , Mr. Kemp denied intentional voter suppression . Asked comment Wednesday , spokesman directed The Times video news conference Mr. Kemp suggested investigation politically motivated distraction important issues .
**************“ They need quit playing politics , ” Mr. Kemp said news conference , pivoting attack House Democrats giving billions dollars disaster aid Puerto Rico “ farmers fixing lose farm. ” He said nothing substance allegations document requests , spokesman respond follow-up email .
**************Mr. Raffensperger , current secretary state , said received letter office “ looks forward open dialogue thorough process . ”
**************Mr. Cummings Mr. Raskin , Democratic committee leaders , immediately available interviews Wednesday . But decision open investigation evidence House Democrats , newly empowered November election , intend act aggressively issues like allegations voter suppression back burner first two years Trump administration .
**************Representative Jim Jordan , committee ’ ranking Republican , said spokesman “ highly unusual congressional committee involve state ’ election . ”
**************“ This squarely purview state Georgia , House Oversight Committee , ” Mr. Jordan said statement . “ We ’ help think attempts Democrats insert committee state ’ business attempt relitigate election result like . ”
**************Mr. Kemp narrowly defeated Ms. Abrams , ended campaign declaring , “ This speech concession , concession means acknowledge action right , true proper . ”
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Nicholas Fandos
**************WASHINGTON — A powerful Democratic House committee chairman investigating possible abuses government ’ security clearance process stepped demands Friday see key documents interview potential witnesses White House light new report President Trump personally intervened grant son-in-law top-secret clearance despite legal national security concerns .
**************The chairman , Representative Elijah E. Cummings Maryland , leads House Oversight Reform Committee , accused White House new letter stonewalling requests information implied comply voluntarily , would issue subpoena compel cooperation .
**************He said report , published The New York Times , added new concerns Mr. Trump lying public role clearance process existing broader questions irregularities surrounding access sensitive government secrets .
**************“ If true , new reports raise grave questions derogatory information career officials obtained Mr. Kushner recommend denying access nation ’ sensitive secrets , ” Mr. Cummings wrote letter Pat Cipollone , White House counsel . The letter went ask “ President Trump concealed role overruling recommendation , General Kelly Mr. McGahn felt compelled document actions , office continuing withhold key documents witnesses Committee . ”
**************The report The New York Times said Mr. Trump ’ intervention concerned senior administration officials John F. Kelly , White House chief staff , documented action contemporaneous internal memo said “ ordered ” grant Mr. Kushner top-secret clearance .
**************The Times also reported Donald F. McGahn II , White House counsel , wrote memo documenting concerns raised C.I.A . officials Mr. Kushner . Mr. McGahn , memo noted , recommended giving broad access government ’ secrets .
**************Mr. Trump told The Times January Oval Office interview role Mr. Kushner ’ clearance .
**************Mr. Cummings pursuing reported irregularities White House Trump transition team since 2017 , Republicans control House . But started broad inquiry last month taking control oversight panel , Congress ’ muscular investigative body , said hoped would shine light national security risks may exist .
**************He specifically requested information clearances nine current former administration officials , including Mr. Kushner . Among whose clearances intends scrutinize Mr. Trump ’ current former national security advisers , John R. Bolton Michael T. Flynn ; onetime staff secretary , Rob Porter ; former senior director National Security Council , Robin Townley ; former deputy national security adviser , K. T. McFarland ; well Sebastian Gorka , former deputy assistant president .
**************Mr. Cummings also asked documents related review security clearance process Mr. Kelly conducted 2018 concluded serious flaws system meant vet high-level officials . And Mr. Cummings wants talk “ personnel White House Personnel Security Office . ”
**************The White House , said Friday , thus far complied .
**************In sign House Democrats would seek elevate issue oversight agenda , Representative Adam B. Schiff California , chairman House Intelligence Committee , said Thursday panel , responsible overseeing American intelligence agencies , would work Mr. Cummings ’ .
**************Mr. Schiff called Mr. Trump ’ actions “ latest indicator president ’ utter disregard national security men women sacrifice much every day keep us safe . ”
**************Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook , Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Kenneth P. Vogel
**************WASHINGTON — Michael D. Cohen ’ congressional testimony Wednesday revived questions whether President Trump broke law failing disclose footed bill hush payment pornographic film actress .
**************Members House Oversight Reform Committee grilled Mr. Cohen , served decade president ’ so-called fixer , $ 130,000 payment made 2016 presidential election actress keep quiet claim affair Mr. Trump .
**************Mr. Cohen testified reimbursed installments Mr. Trump company , Trump Organization , starting early 2017 payment actress , Stormy Daniels .
**************But Mr. Trump failed list arrangement outstanding debt owed Mr. Cohen financial disclosure statement submitted June 2017 government ethics laws requiring top federal officials divulge detailed information finances . On 2018 form , included footnote listing repayment $ 100,001 $ 250,000 Mr. Cohen , raising questions whether 2017 filing improperly omitted debt . Democrats pounced omission Wednesday .
**************[ Donald Trump “ inflated ” value assets documents given Deutsche Bank , Michael Cohen testified . ]
**************“ Why think president provide accurate information 2017 financial disclosure form ? ” Representative Carolyn B. Maloney , Democrat New York , asked Mr. Cohen . “ What trying hide ? ”
**************Mr. Cohen responded Mr. Trump trying avoid publicly revealing “ payments reimbursement funds I extended behalf . ”
**************Mr. Cohen asserted later Mr. Trump ’ goal providing reimbursements installments “ order hide payment . ”
**************The hush payment become increasing problem Mr. Trump , initially said 2018 unaware payment Ms. Daniels . He later acknowledged existence payment series Twitter posts , asserted payment nothing election , could considered undisclosed campaign contribution .
**************Last year , Mr. Cohen contradicted , pleading guilty litany charges , including violating campaign finance laws connection hush payment .
**************In congressional testimony Wednesday , Mr. Cohen elaborated payment scheme motivation . “ It either somebody wire funds purchase life rights story Ms. Clifford , going end sold television , would embarrassed president would interfered election , ” Mr. Cohen said , referring Ms. Daniels , whose legal name Stephanie Clifford .
**************He produced financial records showing fronted $ 130,000 home equity line , well two $ 35,000 checks — one Mr. Trump one account linked business — said among 11 payments reimburse hush payment .
**************Ultimately , said paid $ 420,000 year connection hush payments , explained included funds allow pay taxes payment $ 60,000 bonus .
**************All done express direction Mr. Trump , Mr. Cohen testified . “ We discussed , ” said . “ Everything go Mr. Trump approved Mr. Trump . ”
**************The testimony seemed buttress claims Democrats government watchdog groups Mr. Trump knowingly made false statement United States government omitting debts owed Mr. Cohen 2017 personal financial disclosure statement .
**************“ This congressional oversight actually yielding new evidence wrongdoing highest level government ’ something congress supposed system checks balances , ” said Noah Bookbinder , executive director Citizens Responsibility Ethics Washington .
**************His group filed complaint last year Justice Department Office Government Ethics asking investigation whether Mr. Trump failed disclose debt . And Wednesday , said “ look like technical paperwork violation , really goes issue keeping voters knowing need know make educated decisions . ”
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Maureen Dowd
**************Opinion Columnist
**************WASHINGTON — Donald Trump specializes spectacular breakups .
**************First Ivana . Then Marla . Now comes trouble paradise Kim .
**************Last fall , Trump cooed North Korean dictator wrote “ beautiful letters ” “ fell love , ” president canceled lunch date following disappointing rendezvous Hanoi .
**************Yet crazy tabloid splits international spats seem pallid comparison pathetic spectacle Congress Wednesday : heartbroken ex publicly bitterly processing relationship Trump .
**************This time , ’ lust , betrayal secrets splayed across Page Six . This time , Congress , part investigation could lead legal jeopardy Trumps impeachment president .
**************In testimony , Michael Cohen called “ fool ” came Trump . “ I ignored conscience acted loyal man I , ” Cohen said . A fool love , held thrall Trump . How could anyone held thrall sleazy goofball , much less offer take bullet make 500 threats behalf ?
**************“ It seems unbelievable I mesmerized Donald Trump I willing things I knew absolutely wrong , ” said Cohen “ Goodfellas ” accent , adding around “ icon ” “ intoxicating . ”
**************“ Mr . Trump enigma , ” Cohen said . “ He complicated , I . ”
**************Actually , Trump simple , grasping money , attention fame . The enigma Trump cut lap dog brutally Cohen fell embrace Robert Mueller New York federal prosecutors . Trump often compared mob boss , Michael Corleone would never turn loyal capo , one crossed .
**************The portrait Cohen drew Trump surprising . It apparent time president con man , racist , cheat liar . ( See : Jared Kushner security clearance . )
**************What compelling congressional hearing portrait sadistic relationship sycophant sociopath .
**************Cohen told House Oversight Committee working Trump made feel “ involved something greater — somehow changing world . ”
**************Threatening sue people take away livelihoods ruin reputations ’ exactly Greenpeace Doctors Without Borders . But Cohen chugging Trump Kool-Aid . He saw Trump ’ protector , thug ’ thug .
**************In late 2017 , appeared get misty talking Vanity Fair ’ Emily Jane Fox Trump : “ One man wants much good many detractors needs support. ” He vowed would never walk away Trump , matter . A year ago , even shopped around book meant rebuttal Michael Wolff ’ “ Fire Fury , ” pitched “ family fix-it guy ” titled “ Trump Revolution : From Tower White House , Understanding Donald J. Trump . ”
**************He understands Trump .
**************A stung Trump went tweet storm Friday morning , bringing book proposal , calling “ ‘ love letter Trump ’ manuscript , ” noting : “ Written submitted long Charlottesville Helsinki , phony reasons going rogue . Book exact opposite fake testimony , lie ! ”
**************Unlike many Republican TV commentators wash away past sins Sarah Palin Iraq war — get big payday liberal love — trashing Trump , Cohen destined reputation rehab .
**************The problem nutshell , Trump biographer Timothy O ’ Brien told The Times , Michael Cohen ’ Roy Cohn . The latter Trump lawyer one helped shape Trump ’ character lack thereof , drumming win-at-all-costs mentality Donald learned father ’ knee .
**************Trump , bleated “ Where ’ Roy Cohn ? ” anger Jeff Sessions recusing , wanted lawyer whip-smart , amoral , ruthless predatory . Cohen merely Renfield Trump ’ Dracula , gratefully eating insects fiend ’ bidding .
**************Trump used Cohen dirty deeds done dirt cheap , ACDC sang .
**************The Wall Street Journal reported Trump showed late Cohen ’ son ’ bar mitzvah made belittling speech come Cohen begged everyone around . The Times revealed last April Trump regularly threatened fire Cohen quoted Roger Stone saying Trump mocked Cohen overpaying Trump real estate .
**************With exceptions inner circle family , Trump ’ give loyalty deserve . That ’ Republicans Hill obsequiously stand eventually learn ’ worth , Cohen warned .
**************Loyalty rare commodity Washington . And Cohen wretched sycophant political history . That honor goes Andrew Young , slavishly devoted aide John Edwards 2008 campaign served driver , personal shopper , handyman butler North Carolina senator .
**************When Edwards affair campaign videographer Rielle Hunter pregnancy ensued , persuaded Young say father . Edwards also got Young go lam wife , nurse , Hunter baby , hiding fancy hotels posh home near Santa Barbara — odyssey financed Young Bunny Mellon . As Young wrote “ The Politician , ” inside campaign “ cult-like atmosphere ” encouraged extreme sycophancy .
**************When Trump gave tour campaign headquarters Trump Tower summer 2016 , introduced Cohen “ lawyer. ” Cohen looked furtive , standing around Trump favorites Corey Lewandowski Hope Hicks young guys desk whole bunch Trump portraits cutouts wall pictures Trump ’ vanquished primary rivals .
**************It least presidential campaign headquarters ever , drywall still unfinished places . As The Times reported , Cohen , pushing years Trump president , jealous attention Trump gave Lewandowski .
**************When Trump somehow stumbled presidency , family think Cohen snuff come Washington , much less get high-level job like chief staff dreamed . The Journal reported Cohen guests even get priority access inaugural fetes .
**************“ He central casting Trump Tower 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue , ” Trump biographer Michael D ’ Antonio told . “ The problem , course , much burdens Cohen exactly Trump liked past . He willing awful command done countless times making countless enemies . As someone target behavior , I tell cartoonish ridiculous . ”
**************Everyone disposable Trumpworld . They sidelined fixer . By time federal prosecutors investigating Cohen ’ hush payments Trump inamoratas , adult-film actress former Playboy model , Trump barely speaking Cohen .
**************“ Boss , I miss much , ” said rare phone call Trump , The Journal reported . “ I wish I . It ’ really hard . ”
**************The yearning even palpable texts Jeff Bezos Lauren Sanchez .
**************The self-styled protector purdah resented .
**************“ If Trump sophisticated ability think long term , would anticipated Cohen might become problem ’ hold close , ” O ’ Brien told . But Trump ’ long-term thinker .
**************“ He ’ never deal people face-planted coming back haunt — ever . He ’ people decades , ” O ’ Brien said . The difference ? “ He never law enforcement turning people essentially weaponizing . ”
**************D ’ Antonio agreed “ president made mistake disrespecting Cohen believed purchased Michael would stay bought . When underdog turns bites hard , overdog always surprised . ”
**************I invite follow Twitter ( @ MaureenDowd ) join Facebook .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) , sign Opinion Today newsletter .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************He said working Donald Trump “ intoxicating. ” We ’ feeling hung .
**************By Michelle Cottle
**************Ms. Cottle member editorial board .
**************“ Liar , liar , pants fire ! ”
**************It Representative Paul Gosar , Republican Arizona , burst forth playground taunt Michael Cohen , longtime fixer personal lawyer President Trump appeared Wednesday House Oversight Reform Committee talk former boss .
**************But Mr. Gosar ’ observation isolated zinger ; encapsulation party ’ overarching approach Mr. Cohen ’ testimony . It also provides pretty good sense minds hearing likely change era bitter polarization — tough bring clarity swirl controversies engulfing president .
**************As spectacle opening Washington , 12 time zones away , Hanoi , president wrapping friendly dinner Kim Jong-un , tyrannical leader North Korea . Mr. Trump hopes pageantry peacemaking Asia overshadow damaging testimony former confidant written lying “ rat . ”
**************We await results Mr. Trump ’ Mr. Kim ’ negotiations . We hope edifying House hearings .
**************Oh , India Pakistan — possessed nuclear weapons — engaged escalating hostilities , including downing two Indian warplanes Wednesday .
**************This world live .
**************On Capitol Hill , committee Republicans waste time disputing Mr. Cohen ’ characterization Mr. Trump “ racist , ” “ con man ” “ cheat. ” At one point , Representative Mark Meadows asked Lynne Patton , African-American woman worked Trump family party planner serves administration , stand behind , citing proof president possibly racist . That ’ substantive pushback got .
**************Instead , Republicans stuck discrediting vivisecting witness . Member member detailed Mr. Cohen ’ financial fraud , tax evasion , professional disloyalty , course , previous lies Congress . The committee ’ ranking Republican , Jim Jordan — high-dudgeon dangerously over-caffeinated — seemed particularly troubled origins authenticity Twitter account , Women Cohen , pushed ridiculous flattery Mr. Cohen ’ manliness : # sexy ! # handsome !
**************Message : Mr. Cohen liar , “ swindler , ” narcissist felon fool would listen . Multiple Republicans , fact , went length disgrace Democrats provided platform scoundrel .
**************While quibbling details , Mr. Cohen disagree Republicans ’ critique . Early often , acknowledged done bad things soon would spending time prison . He , however , one point feel moved observe Mr. Jordan :
**************“ I find interesting , sir , colleagues , one question far … asked President Trump . That ’ actually I thought I coming today . ”
**************Aware credibility problems , Mr. Cohen showed hard proof Trumpian misdeeds : personal check president , allegedly used reimburse Mr. Cohen payment Stormy Daniels ; evidence Mr. Trump arranged portrait purchased charity auction straw buyer , repaid Mr. Trump ’ charitable foundation ; letters Mr. Trump instructed Mr. Cohen write , warning president ’ high school , colleges College Board release grades test scores without permission .
**************Mr. Cohen noted threatening people Mr. Trump ’ behalf integral part job , estimating , decade , called upon around 500 times .
**************The whole dreary spectacle produced fresh tidbits — Mr. Cohen ’ claim Mr. Trump , year term , explicitly directed lie president ’ involvement hush-money scheme — none seem likely alter competing narratives pushed president ’ critics allies . Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez , Democrat ’ star freshman , laid groundwork demanding president ’ tax returns issuing future subpoenas Trump lackeys . Mr. Cohen suggested federal prosecutors New York investigating as-yet-unrevealed Trumpian crimes . He also ominously fretted : “ I fear loses election 2020 never peaceful transition power . ”
**************Mr. Cohen said working Mr. Trump “ intoxicating. ” But something changed . Mr. Cohen ’ performance likely first many soul-barings play hearing rooms courtrooms coming months .
**************“ I regret day I said ‘ yes ’ Mr. Trump , ” said . “ I regret help support I gave along way . ”
**************The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************letters
**************Readers discuss Mr. Cohen ’ credibility critique questioners .
**************To Editor :
**************Re “ Cohen Accuses Trump Lies Cover-Ups ” ( front page , Feb. 28 ) :
**************The political theater display Wednesday ’ hearing revealed much state country character deeds Michael Cohen Donald Trump . It wrenching , hard-to-swallow exposé polarizing blasé political , legal cultural climate allowed likes Michael Cohen operate thrive long Mr. Trump ’ personal fixer , intimidator enabler . We beginning see consequences .
**************We see meaningful correction country whole willing deal root causes pervasive dysfunction .
**************Angel Kozeli MozinaBoston
**************To Editor :
**************Michael Cohen ’ credibility rests corroborating documentation brought . His portrait president matches perfectly everything know man , oratory , actions tweets .
**************Peter ClothierLaguna Beach , Calif .
**************To Editor :
**************Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez put colleagues shame . She demonstrated hearing entail . Be prepared ask factual questions listen . The rest committee members lot learn .
**************Kay DormanLong Beach Township , N.J .
**************To Editor :
**************Re “ Republican Offers Appointee Living Proof Trump ’ No Racist ” ( news article , Feb. 28 ) :
**************Representative Mark Meadows ashamed “ best friends black ” stunt former Trump Organization employee black appear hearing . The mere fact thinks ’ probative issue racism demonstrates ’ get .
**************Lawrence WeismanWestport , Conn .
**************To Editor :
**************I know live age facts alternative facts , news fake news , Michael Cohen ’ testimony lies somewhere man ’ land myth reality . It poorly scripted badly acted effort look sincere time settling scores . Shakespeare right : It tale “ full sound fury , signifying nothing . ”
**************Bernard F. DickTeaneck , N.J .
**************To Editor :
**************As I listened Representative Elijah Cummings ’ closing remarks , I could imagine comments coming previous Republican chairmen Oversight Committee — likes Trey Gowdy Darrell Issa Jason Chaffetz . So imbued grace remarks Mr. Cummings , devoid polish signs preparation , piercing haunting cry better America stood stark difference party Donald Trump , whose members demonstrated could evince belligerent snark , ad hominem attacks utter lack concern truth .
**************Jack SwansonIrvine , Calif .
**************To Editor :
**************Despite ranting , raving pounding table , Republican members House Oversight Committee implied agreement everything Michael Cohen said questioning facts .
**************It ’ great see parties agreement .
**************Jon MeyersonBeverly MeyersonSarasota , Fla .
**************To Editor :
**************President Trump ’ signature $ 35,000 check points possibly committed crime office . The thing , hush money scheme likely crime got office . Had Stormy Daniels scandal hushed , ’ good chance would lost election . That takes possible crime whole new level . It ’ old campaign finance violation .
**************Vicki Riba KoestlerAlexandria , Va .
**************To Editor :
**************The irony Republican representatives trying smear Michael Cohen testimony quoting newspaper articles “ fake media ” rich . The media “ fake ” ’ . How convenient .
**************Susan M. BrantingColumbia , Md .
**************To Editor :
**************I delighted see vigorous insistence truth-telling Republican members House Oversight Committee questioning Michael Cohen . Maybe get used .
**************Alan GotthelfNew York
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Too many representatives chose bloviate instead interrogate — except one .
**************By Caroline Fredrickson
**************Ms. Fredrickson president American Constitution Society .
**************On Wednesday , Michael Cohen , President Trump ’ one-time personal lawyer “ fixer , ” testified front House Oversight Reform Committee says variety shady practices participated working president . People around country awaited riveting testimony , going far join “ watch parties ” bars .
**************But like many congressional hearings , fireworks quick flame . Even tantalizing opportunity grill Mr. Cohen myriad ways former boss likely sought evade law avoid creditors , many members committee , parties , could resist usual grandstanding .
**************Consider line questioning Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez New York . She asked Mr. Cohen series specific questions Mr. Trump handled insurance claims whether provided accurate information various companies . “ To knowledge , ” asked , “ Donald Trump ever provide inflated assets insurance company ? ” He .
**************She asked whether Mr. Trump tried reduce local taxes undervaluing assets . Mr. Cohen confirmed president also done . “ You deflate value asset put request tax department deduction , ” Mr. Cohen said , explaining practice . These sort questions , answers , committee supposed elicit . Somehow , newer members got memo .
**************[ Get personal , less conventional take political developments , newsmakers , cultural milestones Frank Bruni ’ weekly newsletter . ]
**************Ms. Ocasio-Cortez continued , asking , “ Do think need review financial statements tax returns order compare ? ” She pressed Mr. Cohen names others would able corroborate testimony provide documents support charges . In response , Mr. Cohen listed executives Allen Weisselberg , Ron Lieberman Matthew Calamari — names , thanks part Ms. Ocasio-Cortez , probably hear coming months .
**************These questions random , , rather , well thought . Like good prosecutor , Ms. Ocasio-Cortez establishing factual basis committee investigation . She asked one question time , avoided long-winded speeches asking question , listened carefully answer , gave basis follow-up inquiry . As result , Mr. Cohen gave specific answers Mr. Trump ’ shady practices , along road map find . Mr. Cohen began testimony calling Mr. Trump “ con man cheat ” ; In five minutes , Ms. Ocasio-Cortez actually helped lay facts substantiate charges .
**************Unfortunately , colleagues followed suit . In testimony , Mr. Cohen claimed numerous ethical breaches criminal acts part president , many Mr. Cohen apparently served main actor . He spoke illegal campaign payoffs , rigging electoral polls , threatening people crossed president , possible witness tampering , even falsifying financial records . He spoke conduct office would cross even generous reading ethical legal boundaries .
**************All areas offered fruitful avenues exploration . But instead asking probing questions eliciting damning evidence Mr. Cohen , many committee members chose make speech . Jeffrey Toobin The New Yorker tweeted frustration , “ Bipartisan incompetence questioning # cohen hearing . All make speeches , fail listen answers follow up. ” He tweeted sample follow-up questions , hoping desperately someone might try . He give credit several members understand art questioning , including Representatives Katie Hill Jackie Speier . But shocking members actually understand basic function hearing — chose ignore collective goals favor showboating .
**************As someone worked Hill nonprofit advocate , I accustomed frustration opportunities lost , questions asked , witnesses allowed get away without really answering question . Often stakes low cost great .
**************But Committee Chairman Elijah Cummings ’ outstanding closing remarks made clear , face nation consequential , president faces multiple inquiries possible collusion foreign power , need members Congress . Ms. Ocasio-Cortez many followers social media . I hope colleagues start follow example hearing room .
**************Caroline Fredrickson ( @ crfredrickson ) president American Constitution Society author “ Under Bus : How Working Women Are Being Run Over ” forthcoming “ The Democracy Fix : How Win Fight Fair Rules , Fair Courts Fair Elections . ”
**************The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram .
**************Advertisement
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Paul Manafort ’ Trail Scandals
**************My Dead Dad ’ Porno Tapes
**************Ten Meter Tower
**************Between Sound Silence
**************Coal Miner Trump : “ Coal Mining Isn ’ Coming Back ”
**************House Tour | Cary Leibowitz
**************Sanctuary City Hotline
**************2011 : Arab Spring
**************‘ Can The President Be Impeached ? ’ We Answer Your Questions
**************Calving Season
**************Michael D. Cohen , former lawyer fixer President Donald J. Trump , took stand Wednesday , February 27 , 2019 , testify publicly Mr. Trump House Oversight Committee .
**************“ This part destiny , ” Cummings tells Cohen .
**************I want point single questioner Democrat-led House asked Cohen relationship Sean Hannity , described legal client court New York .
**************Ooh , good point , Maggie .
**************What day .
**************And , Cummings brings gavel hearing close .
**************Cohen back Capitol Hill tomorrow , testifying behind closed doors House intelligence committee .
**************This astonishing day congress , one without precedent . Cummings gave Cohen powerful cinematic final statement , cap said . Cohen swarmed people middle hearing room tries exit .
**************I agree , Maggie . We grown accustomed since Trump came national stage extraordinary political moments . Even context , today sure feels like one . Michael Cohen , one Trump ’ closest aides , rebuked oath Congress , warned threat American democracy implicated sitting president criminal activity campaign office .
**************A forceful closing statement Chairman Cummings , call action - “ We Got Get Back Normal ! This hearing adjourned . ”
**************There going days debate Cohen said . His comments Donald Trump Jr. dismissed president ’ allies aides . His comments Roger Stone Wikileaks objected Stone , Trump , interview weeks ago . But checks Cohen brought indisputable .
**************And checks reimbursements hush money signed president son chief financial officer company .
**************Cohen painted picture line mob boss , US president .
**************And Republicans doubt landed blows Cohen , I sure undercut enough negate evidence concrete elements testimony .
**************I agree , Nick .
**************I hope folks check Peter Baker ’ Nick ’ story day , find
**************www.nytimes.com/2019/02/27/us/politics/michael-cohen-testifies-tr…
**************Thanks reading along , folks . Not sure next time quite like , , hope see .
**************This , key aspect Cohen ’ testimony , Trump lawyer .
**************Statement Jay Sekulow , Counsel President :
**************“ Today ’ testimony Michael Cohen attorneys President edited changed statement Congress alter duration Trump Tower Moscow negotiations completely false . ”
**************And , , ’ really signing . Thanks , folks .
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************It apparently legal president ’ son-in-law serve top White House adviser . But grant immunity .
**************By The Editorial Board
**************The editorial board represents opinions board , editor publisher . It separate newsroom Op-Ed section .
**************For President Trump , era congressional oversight shaping family affair , three eldest children — Donald Jr. , Ivanka Eric — risk getting swept multiple investigations . But none Trump clan may face thorough going-over Jared Kushner , president ’ son-in-law top White House adviser .
**************Mr. Kushner week among long list Trumpworld intimates asked provide documents House Judiciary Committee looks possible presidential misdeeds .
**************This request landed continuing tussle heating Mr. Kushner House Oversight Reform Committee , examining claims Mr. Trump arranged son-in-law granted top-secret security clearance objections intelligence officials .
**************In cases , White House signaled intent defy Congress , arguing executive privilege legislative overreach . On Monday , White House counsel , Pat Cipollone , sent letter oversight committee chairman , Elijah Cummings , rebuffing request effectively daring start issuing subpoenas . Mr. Cummings said would confer colleagues determine comes next .
**************However Democrats proceed , Mr. Kushner ’ peculiar role father-in-law ’ White House prompted widespread concern broader specific generic questions accountability competence often raised raw nepotism .
**************Unease Mr. Kushner ’ access secret information appears go beyond politics . Mr. Trump ’ intelligence officials said balked idea giving son-in-law access , Donald McGahn stint White House counsel .
**************Mr. Trump overrode advice ordered Mr. Kushner ’ clearance granted , last May .
**************These casual , offhand objections . After president made decision , Mr. McGahn reportedly troubled wrote internal memo detailing concerns Mr. Kushner — including C.I.A . — making clear recommended move .
**************John Kelly , time White House chief staff , said felt similarly moved write memo stating explicitly “ ordered ” president grant Mr. Kushner ’ clearance .
**************If true , yet another point Mr. Trump misled public , insisting January played role arranging son-in-law ’ clearance . Just last month , Ivanka Trump made similar claim , asserting father “ involvement pertaining clearance husband ’ clearance , zero . ”
**************Those untruths nowhere near troubling fact intelligence administration officials reportedly loath grant Mr. Kushner access government ’ deepest secrets .
**************What C.I.A. ’ specific hesitation concerning Mr. Kushner top-secret information ? Why agency continue deny access “ sensitive compartmentalized information ” ? Why F.B.I . raise questions foreign influence Mr. Kushner ?
**************As The Times reported last month :
**************“ The full scope intelligence officials ’ concerns Mr. Kushner known . But clearance held part questions F.B.I . C.I.A . foreign business contacts , including related Israel , United Arab Emirates Russia , according multiple people familiar events . ”
**************Mr. Kushner ’ inaccurate statements F.B.I . foreign interactions cause additional concern .
**************And many , many eyebrows raised Mr. Kushner ’ special friendship Mohammed bin Salman , crown prince Saudi Arabia — coziness strategically aggressively cultivated Saudis . Out fear Mr. Kushner , naïve ways diplomacy foreign affairs , susceptible manipulation prince , Mr. Kelly attempted curtail two men ’ private talks reinstating requirement National Security Council officials participate calls foreign leaders .
**************No matter : Mr. Kushner Prince Mohammed ’ bond grew , even withstanding conclusion American intelligence agencies prince ordered torture murder journalist Jamal Khashoggi . Amid global outrage killing , Mr. Kushner among prince ’ fiercest defenders .
**************Mr. Kushner low-level White House functionary . He charged bringing peace Middle East , president ’ star emissary Saudi government . The public compelling interest knowing made intelligence community nervous .
**************Putting member president ’ family investigatory hot seat delicate business . Voters get squeamish watching politician ’ wife daughter son-in-law field tough questions . That ’ excuse letting avoid accountability .
**************The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************They ’ got better things Dripping Springs .
**************By Gail Collins
**************Opinion Columnist
**************So . Michael Cohen started testimony declaring president United States “ racist , ” “ con man ” “ cheat. ” The Republicans supposed grilling responded saying … um .
**************Well , mainly complained hearing happening . ( “ I appalled . We could focused actual issues facing America , like border security . ” )
**************Nobody jumped yelled : “ A racist ? How dare call man racist ? ” To fair , one Republican committee member demur , brought black government appointee stand look diverse .
**************But ’ say lot expressions shock . Nobody announced good authority checks Cohen got Trump reimbursements Stormy Daniels payoff , rather anonymous donations orphanage .
**************The Republicans simply argued , , whole thing dumb waste time .
**************“ I talked beautiful wife back Dripping Springs , Tex. , hearing . I said , ‘ Don ’ bother watching , ’ ” said Representative Chip Roy .
**************The hearing House Oversight Committee , , course , new Democratic control . Cohen showed members $ 35,000 check said president gave partial repayment Stormy Daniels payoff .
**************Nothing better evidence exhibit . But public inured Trump scandals ’ almost way raise new excitement Stormy ’ sex-with-the-future-president story . Unless Cohen could demonstrated then-boss wrote “ hush money ” check memo .
**************Nevertheless , always new things learned .
**************For instance , Cohen testified Donald Trump Jr. ’ role payoff deal . In passing , said president thought son “ worst judgment anyone world . ”
**************Wonder Junior reacted ? This presumably Ivanka , ’ supposed bright one family , denounced idea guaranteed minimum wage felt Americans “ want work get . ”
**************Cohen claimed years serving Trump ’ hatchet man never heard boss “ say anything private led believe loved nation wanted make better . ”
**************That could cue Republicans offer multitude examples contrary . But part , got one white male representative another announcing Cohen ignored ’ due go “ prison lying . ”
**************Almost everybody knows Donald Trump appears going prison lying . Or awaiting sentencing lying . Or facing charges lying . If Donald Trump intimate federal authorities come calling , careful tell truth . Or move Papua New Guinea .
**************Even jaded Trump watcher , parts Cohen testimony worth discussing . For instance , said Trump threatened legal action make sure old high school , colleges College Board kept grades SAT score secret .
**************Certainly surprise Trump ’ want publicize details academic career . But still great question keep harping , drive completely nuts . Maybe every day House Democrats could make speech floor . And introduce C student sense humor could announce ’ proud following presidential footsteps intellectual mediocrity .
**************Cohen testified Trump going back forth Forbes magazine attempt get good spot Wealthiest list . While simultaneously trying push income reported tax purposes . Let ’ hope Democrats use another lever get hands tax returns . Truly would development even better calling Donald Jr. testify role Cohen payments father ’ assessment judgment .
**************We certainly know Cohen … perfect . After , spent 12 years Trump ’ lawyer . Representative Jim Jordan , top Republican committee , even brought Women Cohen , account put promote little-known role “ sex symbol . ”
**************But Cohen made pretty good witness , looking appropriately miserable answering questions convincingly , balance . He told lawmakers rumors mystery tape showing Trump hitting wife elevator untrue “ opinion ’ something would do. ” On hand , said Trump make call Melania lie Stormy Daniels unpleasantness .
**************While going , president Asia , dining Kim Jong-un North Korea . Previous negotiations Kim produced monster publicity little way nuclear disarmament .
**************Nevertheless , Trump seems believe may get Nobel Peace Prize . He really seems want lot . Maybe Nobel committee offered trade tax returns …
**************The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram .
**************Gail Collins Op-Ed columnist , former member editorial board first woman serve Times editorial page editor , 2001 2007 . @ GailCollins • Facebook
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Nicholas Fandos
**************WASHINGTON — The chairman House Oversight Reform Committee revealed information Thursday said showed Ivanka Trump Jared Kushner used private messaging services official White House business way may violated federal records laws .
**************The chairman , Representative Elijah E. Cummings Maryland , said lawyer Ms. Trump , President Trump ’ daughter , Mr. Kushner , president ’ son-in-law senior adviser , told committee late last year addition private email account , Mr. Kushner uses unofficial encrypted messaging service , WhatsApp , official White House business , including foreign contacts .
**************Mr. Cummings said lawyer , Abbe Lowell , also told lawmakers Ms. Trump preserve emails sent private account reply .
**************Democrats barely able contain frustration see dark irony findings — earlier news reports couple ’ use private email accounts . Mr. Trump made Hillary Clinton ’ use private email server secretary state central line attack 2016 campaign president . Even F.B.I . declined charge Mrs. Clinton practices handling classified information , Republicans Congress continued pick away case .
**************[ Update : The use private email chats , time Trump ’ family , comes fire . ]
**************Mr. Lowell could say Mr. Kushner communicated classified information messaging service , WhatsApp , telling lawmakers “ pay grade. ” He asserted Mr. Kushner took screenshots communications sent official White House account National Security Council , client violation federal records laws .
**************In letter Thursday disclosing new information , Mr. Cummings said findings added urgency investigation possible violations Presidential Records Act members Trump administration , including Mr. Kushner Ms. Trump . He accused White House stonewalling committee information requested months ago , Republicans still controlled House .
**************“ The White House ’ failure provide documents information obstructing committee ’ investigation allegations violations federal records laws White House officials , ” Mr. Cummings wrote . He said would “ forced consider alternative means obtain compliance ” documents requested White House communications record keeping shared committee , indication could subpoena .
**************Steven Groves , White House lawyer , said White House would review Mr. Cummings ’ letter “ provide reasonable response due course . ”
**************Mr. Lowell , letter , accused Mr. Cummings misrepresenting parts told lawmakers last year disputed suggestions either clients broken law .
**************The oversight committee first began scrutinizing use private communications services White House 2017 amid news reports Mr. Kushner used private email account government business Ms. Trump done .
**************Mr. Kushner ’ use WhatsApp also reported earlier least one instance , scope previously known . CNN reported October Mr. Kushner communicated Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman , de facto leader Saudi Arabia , using WhatsApp .
**************Mr. Lowell confirmed details Mr. Kushner ’ private messaging use — though communications Prince Mohammed — meeting December Mr. Cummings committee ’ chairman time , Representative Trey Gowdy , Republican South Carolina . Asked Mr. Kushner cleared use messaging app communicate foreign leaders , Mr. Lowell recommended lawmakers ask National Security Council White House , Mr. Cummings said .
**************On Thursday , Mr. Lowell said contrary Mr. Cummings ’ letter asserted , confirmed president ’ son-in-law communicating WhatsApp foreign “ leaders , ” merely messaged “ people. ” More broadly , Mr. Lowell said told lawmakers privy many details Mr. Kushner ’ use WhatsApp , instructing , “ question White House counsel , . ”
**************Mr. Lowell also took issue Mr. Cummings ’ account said Ms. Trump .
**************In letter , Mr. Cummings said speaking Mr. Lowell , believed Ms. Trump could also potentially violation Presidential Records Act use private email account . Specifically , said Mr. Lowell told committee although Ms. Trump forwards work-related emails received personal account official government account , responds message .
**************Mr. Lowell , though , said oversimplifying response . In exchange highlighted chairman , referring Ms. Trump ’ practices September 2017 , said . Since , said , “ always forwards official business White House account . ”
**************Mr. Cummings ’ committee separately investigating circumstances Mr. Kushner Ms. Trump , administration officials , received security clearances . The New York Times reported last month Mr. Trump personally intervened secure top-secret clearance Mr. Kushner despite legal national security concerns raised advisers .
**************Mr. Kushner Ms. Trump appear current former White House officials Mr. Cummings ’ sights personal email use . He wrote Thursday also obtained documents apparently showing K. T. McFarland used personal AOL account official business served deputy national security adviser Stephen K. Bannon done White House adviser .
**************Mr. Cummings set April 4 deadline White House comply latest requests . To extent , though , remains seen .
**************The White House generally resistant far satisfy requests House Democrats .
**************On Thursday , White House counsel , Pat Cipollone , rejected another request Mr. Cummings chairmen Intelligence Foreign Affairs committees information Mr. Trump ’ private communications President Vladimir V. Putin Russia . In letter , said Constitution courts granted president broad authority conduct foreign policy presidents parties rightly fought protect communications foreign leaders .
**************“ While respectfully seek accommodate appropriate oversight requests , unaware precedent supporting sweeping requests , ” Mr. Cipollone wrote .
**************Maggie Haberman contributed reporting .
**************Get politics Washington news updates via Facebook , Twitter Morning Briefing newsletter .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************It ’ another sign President Trump ’ weakness .
**************By David Leonhardt
**************Opinion Columnist
**************This article part David Leonhardt ’ newsletter . You sign receive weekday .
**************President Trump ’ emergency declaration border wall based obvious falsehood : There emergency U.S.-Mexico border . And goaded declaration Sean Hannity , episode makes mockery federal government .
**************But relative scheme Trump ’ misbehavior , emergency declaration ’ rank high . It ’ corruption obstruction justice . It ’ attempt undermine America ’ alliance Western Europe . And ’ even matter much immigration policy . If ’ trying calibrate Trump-related outrage , take deep breath morning .
**************“ A presidential declaration emergency order construct wall would stupid , ” Lawfare ’ Quinta Jurecic wrote . “ It would wasteful . It would test limits president ’ authority law question . But would , , step toward authoritarianism. ” ( Here ’ longer version case . )
**************[ Listen “ The Argument ” podcast every Thursday morning , Ross Douthat , Michelle Goldberg David Leonhardt . ]
**************“ This challenged courts immediately , pretty easy throw thing , ” Neal Katyal , former acting solicitor general , predicted Lawrence O ’ Donnell ’ MSNBC show last night .
**************“ Trump ’ fake emergency sign weakness strength , ” tweeted The New Yorker ’ John Cassidy . “ He ran wall , two years Republican control Congress , still ’ get financed . Weak president . ”
**************And Philip Klein The Washington Examiner made conservative case declaration : “ The hope limited government conservatives emergency declaration gets quickly enjoined , eventually nixed , federal court . At least , silver lining would legal precedent would set president attempt end around Congress . ”
**************The China rivalry
**************“ I ’ always thought Americans would come together realized faced dangerous foreign foe , ” colleague David Brooks writes . “ And lo behold , one : China . It ’ become increasingly clear China grave economic , technological intellectual threat United States world order . ”
**************I agree United States complacent geopolitical challenge China poses .
**************If subscriber newsletter , subscribe . You also join Twitter ( @ DLeonhardt ) Facebook .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram .
**************David Leonhardt former Washington bureau chief Times , founding editor The Upshot head The 2020 Project , future Times newsroom . He 2011 Pulitzer Prize commentary , columns financial crisis . @ DLeonhardt • Facebook
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Why American conservatism Trump may learn like state .
**************By Ross Douthat
**************Opinion Columnist
**************Since conservatism became movement 1950s , American right understood defending written American Constitution unwritten one well — kind cultural social constitution , deeply rooted national history , checks balances official political system help sustain .
**************Under constitution America three branches government great diversity power centers — religious corporate , familial philanthropic . Under constitution important institutions national life ’ political ones ; ’ institutions civil society , flourished — conservative argument goes — precisely government kept within limits , state ’ co-opted crushed rivals influence power .
**************Thus conservatives preach virtues “ limited government , ” ’ Herbert Hoover ’ rugged individual imagine defending . They envision larger communitarian panoply — civic associations , religious denominations , charities universities private schools — needs protection jealousy centralizing state . And tend assume keeping American corporation embedded communitarian system better way balance productivity innovation public-spiritedness trying regulate micromanage businesses good behavior .
**************If wanted summarize intellectual uncertainties conservatives Trump era , could say right trying figure whether unwritten American constitution imagines defending still exists . And ’ , ’ failing , whether means “ limited government ” slogan strategy increasingly irrelevant comes shaping society conservatives would like America .
**************The latter argument Donald Trump implicitly pressed optimistic opponents 2016 primaries . They defenders American dream conservatives long defined , dark , conspiratorial tones businessman rival raised set uncomfortable questions . Is America still nation thriving local communities energetic civic life ? Is America still deeply religious country , strong churches growing denominations ? Are American businessmen basically public spirited , eager compete equal terms government removes heavy hand , natural allies political movement wedded patriotism religion ?
**************For years conservative critics sociologists intellectuals acknowledging answers might — country ’ once-rich associational civic religious life declining dissolving , corporate America embraces conservative slogans keep taxes low unions weak otherwise seems post-patriotic performatively woke , “ silent majority ” hardworking , pious , culturally conservative blue-collar families essentially defunct .
**************Many best conservative books last decade , “ Coming Apart ” Charles Murray “ The Fractured Republic ” Yuval Levin , describe emerging America ’ much resemble Tocquevillian family-church-community landscape familiar past conservative descriptions American exceptionalism . The latest example “ Alienated America : Why Some Places Thrive While Others Collapse ” Tim Carney , mix sociology shoe-leather reporting convincingly situates rise Trump context Middle America ’ communitarian collapse .
**************But accounts like Carney ’ acknowledge role economic forces — globalization , trade , deindustrialization — dissolution family community , also tend insist , contra liberals new socialist vanguard ( also contra Trump ) , cultural collapse ’ primarily driven economic policy decisions ’ reversed public policies programs . Instead tend suggest state interventions often replace community instead strengthening cast communitarian revival necessarily local project , government play best supporting , ’ t-make-matters-worse kind role .
**************These kind arguments still continuity , , basic conservative posture last generations . But also increasingly partisans rupture right , loose group state-power conservatives hint Tocquevillian dream dying cause “ limited government ” increasingly irrelevant — turn would require conservatives become comfortable using power state , engaged centralized policymaking specific social cultural ends mind .
**************This argument visible controversy surrounding Tucker Carlson ’ monologue month ago , stirred libertarian backlash calling Republicans use government policy make American life friendlier families , particularly single-earner households . It also informs difference Carney ’ book smart right-of-center volume moment , Oren Cass ’ “ The Once Future Worker. ” The two authors share certain common ground , end Carney concludes “ current economic social ills … solved even significantly ameliorated president , central government , ” Cass ’ whole thesis wiser policymaking could make big difference unhappy heartlanders Carney profiles .
**************But fullest case rupture , declaring “ era limited government , ” offered two recent essays conservative intellectual journals — Dan McCarthy ’ “ A New Conservative Agenda ” First Things , Gladden Pappin ’ “ Toward Party State ” American Affairs . Both envision conservatism oriented less toward state-as-enemy state-as-danger much toward state-as-shaper state-as-harmonizer . For instance , McCarthy ’ account economic nationalism Donald Trump transmuted something less inchoate effective :
**************Economic nationalism tariffs . It less “ economic ” “ nationalism ” — , takes account different needs different walks life regions country , serving whole serving parts drawing ­together . In past , challenge harmonize farmers , urban capital labor . The challenge balance groups postindustrial classes well , strengthen productive economy largely fictional economy administrators clerks . All sake prosperity , raw dollar terms , national economy provides basis healthy culture citizens families flourish .
**************Pappin makes similar argument political coalitions , especially right , adapt current challenge “ illiberal ” “ post-liberal ” forces , populist socialist :
**************Rather asking question “ What conservatives/progressives ? ” considerable advances made certain purely practical considerations : “ How integrity national political community assured ? ” “ How commercial activity technological development continue turned toward common good , toward strategic advantage ? ” “ What reins power , , state , ensure common good citizens ? ”
**************The likely answers “ practical ” questions , Pappin contends , require conservatives make practical “ use administrative state ” right-wing ends , rather constantly returning “ plaintive , nostalgic counterproductive calls abolition . ”
**************A hostile reader essays , libertarian liberal , might respond vision right-wing governments seek reshape culture mediate classes resembles nothing much early-20th century fascism . A sympathetic reader would say , plenty space state-friendly conservative politics movement conservatism Mussolini , McCarthy Pappin envisioning might better described blend American Hamiltonian tradition 21st-century update French Gaullism .
**************And subtle reader might say ’ trying provide theory move Republican Party power tends make anyway — last two G.O.P . presidents , sense , “ big government conservatives ” — far without strategy , seriousness self-consciousness required make project success .
**************I enough skepticism efficacy state power uncertain project succeed . But post-Trump conservatives likely drawn state-power conservatism theoretical ambition sense political necessity .
**************The earlier conservative self-understanding , right defending nongovernmental institutions power state , tacitly depended assumption many nongovernmental institutions would friendly conservative values . But civil society decayed recent decades , remaining power centers also become increasingly left-wing .
**************Already-liberal institutions — universities , Hollywood , big foundations mass media — uniformly allied left even recent past . Corporate America happily donates Republicans fears Bernie Sanders presidency , cultural issues big business courts younger customers progressive lobbying propaganda . In religion , Catholicism Pope Francis aspires ( scandals permitting ) ease way leftward well , leaving evangelical Christianity isolated bastion little culture-shaping power .
**************Yet conservatives still win White House Congress , means one power center hope control one notionally organized limit — administrative state .
**************If assume people tend seek power , devise justifications seeking power , plausibly exercised , state-power conservatives may need strongest intellectual arguments change way right thinks state . Instead limited government conservatism may give way attempt improve Trumpism clearer blueprints smarter cadres reason changes often happen political ideology — people whose thinking changing feel ’ choice .
**************The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTOpinion ) Instagram , join Facebook political discussion group , Voting While Female .
**************Ross Douthat Opinion columnist The Times since 2009 . He author several books , recently , “ To Change Church : Pope Francis Future Catholicism. ” You follow Twitter : @ DouthatNYT
**************You follow Twitter : @ DouthatNYT
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Eurotunnel sued Department Transport handling contracts provide extra freight capacity .
**************By Amie Tsang
**************LONDON — Add list headaches faced Britain ’ government frantically tries prepare Brexit : 33 million pound ( $ 44 million ) payment settle lawsuit brought Eurotunnel , company operates rail link France Britain .
**************Eurotunnel sued Britain ’ Department Transport handling contracts provide extra transportation capacity event country leaves European Union without deal place .
**************The company accused British government limiting competition open bidding contracts , worth millions dollars , according court filings .
**************In December , Britain ’ government signed contracts DFDS , Danish shipping company , Brittany Ferries , French company , supply extra freight capacity bring essential goods medicines country event no-deal Brexit .
**************The government also signed contract Seaborne Freight , ferry company later found BBC run ferry service . The deal came heavy criticism , one lawmaker calling “ shell company. ” The firm also ridiculed echoing website terms conditions business specializing takeout meals . Seaborne Freight pulled contract .
**************The government settled case Eurotunnel avoid prolonged legal tussle tries make arrangements March 29 , country scheduled exit European Union .
**************Government departments Britain ’ businesses furiously preparing case country leaves European Union without agreement setting terms separation . There fears lack clarity port arrangements could lead gridlock roads problems getting food medicine people Britain .
**************“ We taking steps ensure supply chains continue function , whatever circumstances departure , mitigation place avoid disruption borders , ” Stephen Barclay , Brexit secretary , said statement Friday .
**************Chris Grayling , transport secretary , added , “ While disappointing Eurotunnel chose take legal action contracts place ensure smooth supply vital medicines , I pleased agreement ensure Channel Tunnel ready post-Brexit world . ”
**************Eurotunnel agreed withdraw case take unspecified actions improve security traffic flow .
**************“ Eurotunnel concluded out-of-court agreement secretary state transport ensure Channel Tunnel remains preferred route vital goods travel E.U . U.K. , ” company said .
**************​Amie Tsang general assignment business reporter based London , covered variety topics , including gender pay gap , aviation London Fatberg . @ amietsang
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Good Monday . Want email ? Sign .
**************Bipartisan negotiations forge border security deal broke yesterday , potentially setting federal government another shutdown ahead Friday deadline .
**************What happened ? “ The impasse appears center Democratic demands limit number unauthorized immigrants already country could detained Immigration Customs Enforcement officers , according aides familiar talks , ” according NYT . Republicans wanted exception cap criminals ; Democrats said proposed 16,500-bed cap left enough room .
**************What ’ stake ? The last shutdown , longest U.S. history , cost American economy $ 11 billion tanked President Trump ’ political standing public . Another shutdown could cause economic harm , hitting I.R.S . tax season starts .
**************What ’ next ? Lawmakers could pass another short-term spending bill , though many reluctant punt final budget agreement . Meanwhile , Mr. Trump preparing hold rally supporters El Paso . ( Many city ’ happy . ) But really two choices , according Axios : shut government declare national emergency get border wall money , “ options horrible . ”
**************The Amazon founder risked embarrassment going public said extortion attempt The National Enquirer . So far , ’ scoring big points ( “ Saturday Night Live ” jokes aside ) .
**************His disclosure gotten results . Federal prosecutors reviewing extortion claim , NYT reports , citing unnamed sources . If The Enquirer ’ parent company broke law , would violation nonprosecution agreement paying hush money help President Trump 2016 . ( A lawyer publisher ’ chairman said yesterday company committed crime . )
**************And ’ winning P.R . battle . At time billionaires reviled , Maureen Dowd NYT writes , “ richest dude earth managed come traumatic week inspiring admiration. ” ( Glenn Greenwald The Intercept counters would odd Mr. Bezos gain pity , given Amazon “ critical partner U.S. government building ever-more invasive , militarized sprawling surveillance state . ” )
**************Where The Enquirer go wrong ? Danny Westneat The Seattle Times points picked fight head company powerful got Seattle change tax policies $ 3 billion tax incentives New York office space . “ You ’ pressure Amazon . It goes way around , ” Mr. Westneat writes .
**************But Mr. Bezos could still lose . Jon Swartz Barron ’ notes Amazon shares fell 2.6 percent Friday . “ His hands-on management considered crucial success company anything pulls attention away day-to-day management least concern investors , ” Mr. Swartz writes .
**************Fears Britain ’ withdrawal E.U . could roil economies officially spread across Atlantic .
**************Wall Street warned Brexit ’ impact . “ With less seven weeks go U.K. due leave E.U. , several S & P 500 groups first time put Wall Street formal notice risks London Brussels fail reach divorce deal , ” FT reports . Companies like Lockheed Martin , McCormick , Expedia Cadbury spoken .
**************Driving concern fears depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable Britain , costs imported British goods could rise . There ’ also fear broader effect Brexit global political economic stability .
**************American banks also nervous . “ While U.S. banks want Britain maintain closest possible ties EU Brexit , U.K. banks insurers anxious ’ become beholden new laws made Brussels , ” Bloomberg reports .
**************More Brexit news : The E.U. ’ chief Brexit negotiator , Michel Barnier , said “ reopen ” existing Brexit deal , open reworking political declaration accompanies . The British government trying secure extra two weeks win concessions Europe promising lawmakers another vote Britain ’ withdrawal options . And Prime Minister Theresa May also offered concessions opposing Labour Party break current impasse Parliament .
**************Americans getting rude surprise : Their refunds appear getting smaller , despite President Trump Republicans passing huge set tax cuts year ago .
**************How big drop ? “ The average refund $ 1,865 8.4 percent smaller average refund period last year , ” Reuters reports , citing figures I.R.S . Heather Long WaPo adds number people receiving refund fallen nearly 25 percent far . ( The I.R.S . warns read much figures , part data — result delayed processing due government shutdown . )
**************Why happening ? It ’ actually sign Americans paying taxes . “ People generally got piece tax cut last year gradually form lower withholding paychecks , ” Joseph Rosenberg Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center told WaPo .
**************People angry nonetheless . The WaPo reports : “ People already taken social media , using hashtag # GOPTaxScam , vent anger . Many blame President Trump Republicans shrinking refunds . Some Twitter even said ’ vote Trump seeing refunds slashed . ”
**************The last class tech companies gained valuations $ 1 billion , including Uber Airbnb , remade entire industries . Don ’ expect next wave nearly flashy , according Erin Griffith NYT .
**************Who ? They names like Benchling , Checkr Zola , many create software specific industries — including data analysis systems farmers background checks gig workers .
**************Why ’ exciting predecessors ? Ms. Griffith points Uber , Airbnb peers “ built global empires simply taking existing businesses — like taxis , food delivery hotels — making mobile. ” Easy opportunities disrupt traditional businesses dried , forcing new companies find smaller niches .
**************But ’ underestimate potential . “ Maybe ’ sexy companies first wave , ” venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded NYT . But Anand Sanwal data provider CB Insights said still growing fast , adding , “ If one high-momentum companies , investors going beating door much interest investing next big winner . ”
**************Christine Lagarde , managing director International Monetary Fund , warned yesterday global economy “ growing slowly anticipated . ”
**************She sees four big risks . “ Trade tensions tariff escalations , financial tightening , uncertainty related Brexit outcome spillover impact accelerated slowdown Chinese economy ” “ clouds ” horizon , told World Government Summit Dubai .
**************And could spell trouble . “ When many clouds , ” added , takes one lighting bolt “ start storm . ”
**************But I.M.F . thinks Fed playing smart . “ The fact Fed put pause raising rates going provide lot support economy , ” Gita Gopinath , I.M.F. ’ top economist , told FT. “ We endorse Fed view data-driven approach . ”
**************President Trump expected sign executive order today meant spur development regulation artificial intelligence , Cade Metz NYT writes .
**************The news : Mr. Trump introduce “ American A.I . Initiative , ” aims better educate workers field , improve access cloud computing services data needed build A.I . systems , promote cooperation foreign powers .
**************Context : “ A.I . experts across industry , academia government long called Trump administration make development artificial intelligence major priority , ” Mr. Metz writes , adding “ concerned China could surpass United States ” development technologies .
**************But : “ The order set aside funds A.I . research development , ” Mr. Metz adds , “ administration provided details put new policies effect . ”
**************Steve Mandel stepped head hedge fund Lone Pine Capital .
**************Among reasons Santander rescinded offer hire investment banker Andrea Orcel ? Reportedly desire attend World Economic Forum Davos , Switzerland .
**************Kristina Salen , former chief financial officer shopping site Etsy , joined Moda Operandi , luxury fashion start-up , C.F.O .
**************The English Premier League looking America successor C.E.O. , Richard Scudamore . British candidates appear uninterested job .
**************Deals
**************• The aluminum-parts maker Arconic plans break . ( WSJ )
**************• Apollo Global Management reportedly near deal buy Cox Enterprises ’ 14 regional TV stations $ 3 billion . ( Reuters )
**************• The medical equipment maker Smith & Nephew reportedly held talks buy NuVasive , maker medical instruments spinal surgeries , $ 3 billion . ( FT )
**************• TPG Capital closed seventh Asia-focused private equity fund $ 4.6 billion . ( Reuters )
**************Politics policy
**************• Democratic lawmakers proposing steep new taxes superrich — public loves . ( NYT )
**************• Senator Michael Bennet , Democrat Colorado potential presidential candidate , says cutting private health insurance part Medicare “ bad opening offer. ” ( Politico )
**************• President Trump succeeded dividing Democrats warning socialism . ( Hill )
**************• The biggest star Clive Davis ’ exclusive pre-Grammys gala ? Speaker Nancy Pelosi . ( AP )
**************Trade
**************• Trade talks U.S. China resume today Beijing . ( Straits Times )
**************• White House officials reportedly discussed summit meeting President Trump President Xi Jinping China Mar-a-Lago next month resolve trade fight . ( Axios )
**************• The trade agreement replace Nafta faces uphill climb Congress . ( Axios )
**************Tech
**************• Some Amazon executives reportedly reconsidering decision set campus New York , opponents think might bluff . ( WSJ , Recode )
**************• Huawei threatened sue Czech Republic country ’ cybersecurity agency rescind warning risk company poses nation ’ critical infrastructure . ( NYT )
**************• Sprint accused AT & T false advertising , saying rival incorrectly telling customers receiving 5G data service . ( WSJ )
**************• Tesla may finally delivering Model 3s , ’ keep servicing . ( WSJ )
**************Best rest
**************• A new activist hedge fund , Impactive Capital , rarity : It ’ female- minority-led . ( WSJ )
**************• Household staples , diapers baking soda , may get expensive . ( WSJ )
**************• U.S. colleges raised $ 46.7 billion year ended last June , led Harvard $ 1.4 billion . ( Bloomberg )
**************• Here ’ rundown 100 sustainable U.S. companies , according Barron ’ . ( Barron ’ )
**************• How Fed ’ recent U-turn rates cascaded global markets . ( NYT )
**************Thanks reading ! We ’ see tomorrow .
**************We ’ love feedback . Please email thoughts suggestions business @ nytimes.com .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Ivan Nechepurenko
**************MOSCOW — Russian lawmakers , moving restrict freedom speech , passed bills Thursday would introduce jail terms fines insulting government online spreading so-called fake news .
**************The bills seen effort pre-empt control public criticism Russia ’ prolonged economic stagnation pushes Kremlin ’ approval ratings . They reflect nearly two-decade-long project President Vladimir V. Putin put information flow state control , push made difficult growth internet .
**************The new measures await final passage upper chamber parliament Mr. Putin ’ signature . He expressed support restrictions insulting state online .
**************One set bills passed lower house , Duma , would subject private individuals fines $ 3,000 15 days administrative arrest insulting government online . Individuals would face fines $ 6,000 posting termed fake news .
**************Another bill would demand news media outlets websites remove information shows “ clear disrespect ” society , state symbols , Russian Constitution government . Internet service providers website owners would one day remove insults , face complete block .
**************Lawmakers also passed bill would force websites immediately remove “ false , publicly important information ” government watchdog deems threat public order .
**************The measures stipulate clearly would considered fake news . The authors said interviews would determined state prosecutors government communications watchdog .
**************Critics said measures loosely defined allow government block information online finds undesirable .
**************With bills ’ wording “ vague possible , ” Vladimir A. Ryzhkov , opposition politician , said Facebook , “ create possibilities widest possible arbitrariness law enforcement . As result , society ’ trust government fall public atmosphere poisoned . ”
**************As Russians switch television — largely controlled state Kremlin allies — internet main source information , government made keeping web control top priority .
**************In February , lawmakers proposed creating infrastructure separate Russia global internet altogether . Last year , state banned Telegram , popular messaging app .
**************The Russian government opened assault so-called fake news even United States accused Moscow engaging practice , disinformation campaign intended sway 2016 American presidential election .
**************The new bills passed Russians ’ trust government agencies Mr. Putin particular steadily declining . For first time since annexation Crimea 2014 , number Russians say country heading wrong direction surpassed say opposite . The finding came poll conducted January independent pollster Levada .
**************The share people approve Mr. Putin ’ work president declined 20 percentage points since reached post-Crimea peak 86 percent 2015 .
**************Nikolai F. Uskov , editor Forbes Russia magazine frequent commentator , said bills government ’ “ weapon media . ”
**************“ The government clearly getting ready protest moods grow reflected publications social networks media , ” said , speaking Ekho Moskvy , radio station . “ I ’ think save state , ” added , “ wave anger sweep away restrictions . ”
**************Follow Ivan Nechepurenko Twitter : @ INechepurenko .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By David Zucchino Fahim Abed
**************KABUL , Afghanistan — Afghanistan ’ coalition government fired Tuesday commissioners directed fraud-tainted parliamentary elections last fall , country prepares presidential race summer watches , leaders sidelines , peace talks unfold Americans Taliban .
**************The move follows push opposition politicians postpone election form interim government , part peace deal , could include Taliban . President Ashraf Ghani , fumed government ’ exclusion American-Taliban talks , insisted election held time .
**************The firings , came series meetings government , civil society groups political parties , portrayed badly needed consensus electoral reform . The commissioners called dismissal political decision officials hope serve new government .
**************The election already pushed back April July . The panel behind decision , Independent Election Commission , one two whose members removed Tuesday .
**************Replacement commissioners named Mr. Ghani coalition partner , Abdullah Abdullah , charged preparing presidential election feature men candidates .
**************Mr. Ghani said central government strong mandate negotiate behalf country . The Taliban , dealing directly Americans , refused include Afghan government consider illegitimate .
**************Zalmay Khalilizad , leader American delegation , said last week hoped secure peace deal July election . He said last month United States Taliban agreed principle framework peace deal .
**************The Afghan election commission widely accused sowing confusion disarray October parliamentary elections , three years late tainted accusations vote-rigging , bribery incompetence . Winners certified third 250 seats Parliament .
**************The attorney general ’ office prosecuted 313 people accused violations including forging selling election stickers national ID cards needed cast vote .
**************In statement late Tuesday , office said 12 commissioners two election bodies barred leaving country , investigators appointed look charges abuse authority .
**************The firings set legal confrontation , dismissed members saying move violated election law .
**************“ The amendment election law presidential decree president also candidate Constitution , ” commissioners said joint statement . “ This political decision , legal constitutional one . ”
**************Mr. Ghani ’ deputy spokesman , Shahhusain Murtazawi , said election results remain place . He said protests could lodged second affected commission , called Independent Election Complaint Commission , judicial groups . The head commission ’ secretariat remains place acting director .
**************Given officials administered election fired , roughly 2,000 losing candidates expected protest . If results re-examined canceled , would affect preparations presidential election already behind schedule — assurance required funding place .
**************One losing parliamentary candidate , Fawad Aman , said anyone seated Parliament would remain cloud suspicion . And commissioners punished , said , Afghans could lose faith electoral process refrain voting .
**************“ If dismissed prosecuted , means political game president influence election commissions presidential election , ” Mr. Aman said .
**************Nayim Ayubzada , head Transparent Election Foundation Afghanistan , independent election monitoring group , said firings made hastily government paid little attention legal process addressing fraud accusations .
**************“ We worry decision president candidate may things turn things favor , ” Mr. Ayubzada said . “ If decides hastily election issues , raise questions transparency elections . ”
**************Mr. Ghani Mr. Abdullah appoint new heads members commissions , selected candidates put forward civil society groups political parties within next week .
**************Supporters firings said necessary make commissioners accountable bungling expensive election process secured Afghan forces amid raging war . Each Afghan election , bankrolled international donations , proved least problematic last .
**************The 2014 presidential election fraudulent , two leading candidates claimed victory , nearly tore country apart prompted Western officials step mediators . John Kerry , secretary state , negotiated power-sharing government top two candidates , Mr. Ghani Mr. Abdullah , promise would prioritize election reforms avoid another fiasco .
**************The two men slow make progress reforms , given infighting government war Taliban . Now Mr. Ghani Mr. Abdullah get name new commissioners oversee election peak summer fighting season peace process plays .
**************Those challenges left many Afghans skeptical new commissioners . Mr. Ayubzada , election observer , said doubted presidential election would even held year , process “ overshadowed ongoing peace talks political dealing . ”
**************Mujib Mashal contributed reporting Kandahar , Afghanistan .
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Good Tuesday . Want email ? Sign .
**************Democratic Republican negotiators said last night “ agreement principle ” border security funding could keep federal government open .
**************The deal includes $ 1.38 billion pay 55 miles new fencing , technology staffing border protection . It ’ $ 5.7 billion President Trump demanded build 200-mile wall . Democrats waived demand limits detention capacity immigrants .
**************But ’ guarantee go . The House Senate would vote pact , Mr. Trump would sign . “ I think everyone say , ‘ Good work , ’ ” Representative Kay Granger Texas , one Republican negotiators , said . Still , rally Texas last night , Mr. Trump insisted build wall . And influential Republican commentators like Fox News host Sean Hannity called deal “ garbage compromise . ”
**************The remaining alternatives hugely unattractive . Politico notes potential White House plan redirect unspent federal funds toward wall would “ create firestorm. ” And another government shutdown could hit U.S. economy endanger aviation safety .
**************The British prime minister scheduled update lawmakers later today progress negotiations withdrawing E.U .
**************She big favor ask . Mrs. May focused making changes so-called backstop exit deal , designed prevent hard border Ireland Northern Ireland . She made little headway . Bloomberg explains plan today :
**************• Mrs. May “ update Parliament progress talks E.U . outline motion ’ put M.P.s debate Thursday , office said . ”
**************• She “ expected ask Parliament restate demand remove backstop Withdrawal Agreement promise vote ’ brought renegotiated deal back Parliament Feb. 27 . ”
**************• The aim “ reassure members across House Commons concerned May deliberately running clock risking potentially disastrous no-deal divorce . ”
**************But E.U . still ’ budging . Its chief Brexit negotiator , Michel Barnier , said yesterday “ something give British side . ”
**************Yet Mrs. May could force plan Parliament . Bloomberg explains , though also admits “ lot could go wrong . ”
**************More Brexit news : Britain weakest economic growth six years last year . It signed trade deal Switzerland , biggest since 2016 Brexit referendum . And government sued awarding contract freight shipments no-deal Brexit ferry company boats .
**************The former Fed chairman recently sat Ray Dalio Bridgewater Capital wide-ranging conversation , topics state U.S. principles good government . Don ’ time watch ? Here highlights :
**************On Washington : Mr. Volcker lamented condition U.S. government , repeating past criticisms . “ You ’ got presidents ’ seem mind either personal behavior making outrageous statements , true , ” told Mr. Dalio . “ You Congress ’ unable function effectively . ”
**************On Civil Service : For former Fed chairman , important problem solve make government work appear honorable . “ Public administration ’ bad word , ” told Mr. Dalio , leaving important government departments without effective leaders .
**************What Mr. Volcker : He set Volcker Alliance , meant help schools train future government officials . “ It ’ great trick , ” Mr. Volcker said . “ How get expertise leadership need still respect popular desire ? ”
**************Optimism personal finances ’ high 16 years , according study Gallup .
**************Sixty-nine percent Americans expect better time next year . That “ two percentage points all-time high 71 percent , recorded March 1998 , ” according Gallup . That ’ survey carried Jan. 2 Jan. 10 , middle government shutdown .
**************Half respondents say ’ better year ago . That figure consistently half since 2007 , Gallup says .
**************The optimism hard overstate . “ Only 11 times 109 polls stretching back 1976 least half polled said better financial shape year prior , ” Gallup notes . “ Only 114 polls going back 1977 Americans optimistic personal finances coming year today . ”
**************“ Europe sleepwalking oblivion , people Europe need wake late , ” George Soros writes opinion piece Project Syndicate :
**************• “ Neither leaders ordinary citizens seem understand experiencing revolutionary moment , range possibilities broad , eventual outcome thus highly uncertain . ”
**************• “ The next inflection point elections European Parliament May 2019 . Unfortunately , anti-European forces enjoy competitive advantage balloting . ”
**************• “ The first step defending Europe enemies , internal external , recognize magnitude threat present . The second awaken sleeping pro-European majority mobilize defend values E.U . founded . ”
**************The firm said yesterday would buy Solium Capital , manages stock paid corporate employees , $ 900 million . It ’ biggest deal major Wall Street firm since financial crisis — ’ rationale ?
**************The bank wants millennial wealth . Solium ’ clients include start-ups , like Instacart Stripe , could go public multibillion-dollar valuations — making employees rich .
**************Wall Street approves strategy . Analysts Evercore ISI wrote yesterday Solium gives Morgan Stanley “ real path towards organic growth next generation clients many investors questioning. ” Matthew Klein Barron ’ wrote last week millennials could hold key improving American productivity — wealth .
**************And banks seem newly hungry deals . Days Morgan Stanley ’ acquisition , BB & T agreed buy SunTrust biggest bank merger since 2008 crisis . Banking chiefs seem heartened loosened regulations sector — eager capitalize acquisitions . “ We ’ like , ” James Gorman , Morgan Stanley ’ C.E.O. , told WSJ . ( And JPMorgan Chase reportedly considered buying asset manager WisdomTree , according Bloomberg . )
**************It ’ eight months Mario Draghi ’ finishes nonrenewable term president European Central Bank . Choosing successor important difficult , WSJ reports :
**************• Investors trusted Mr. Draghi , WSJ says , navigate “ toxic mix risks Europe , Brexit trade wars . ”
**************• “ At least five unofficial candidates appear running replace , according European officials : two Frenchmen , two Finns German . The candidates different economic philosophies , clear front-runner . ”
**************• The winner might chosen balance nationalities E.U. ’ leadership , rather purely merit . The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo , chief executive Centre European Policy Studies , Brussels think tank , risks . “ It ’ systemically important job Europe , man controls show , ” said . “ It go badly wrong . ”
**************WSJ reporters scoured fourth-quarter results U.S. companies attempt better understand slowing China ’ economic growth .
**************What found : Many companies “ struggling weaker demand export manufacturers China , pulling back amid fears trade tensions worsen , ” Austen Hufford Theo Francis WSJ report . “ Retailers companies catering Chinese consumers face signs weakness among country ’ growing middle class . They buying fewer cars , phones traveling less . ”
**************The conclusion : “ The indications slowing growth broad , still modest , ” Mr. Hufford Mr. Francis write .
**************Just half PG & E ’ directors stand re-election year utility filed bankruptcy amid California wildfires .
**************Colgate-Palmolive named Noel Wallace , C.O.O. , chief executive , replacing Ian Cook .
**************GV , venture capital arm Alphabet , hired David Schenkein , former C.E.O . Agios Pharmaceuticals , co-head life sciences .
**************Apple named Frank Casanova , longtime iPhone executive , first head marketing augmented reality .
**************Sony appointed Jim Ryan C.E.O . PlayStation business .
**************Deals
**************• Colony Capital , investment firm founded real estate mogul Tom Barrack , explore selling assets activist hedge fund , Blackwells Capital , took stake . ( Colony )
**************• SoftBank ’ Vision Fund led $ 940 million investment Nuro , driverless delivery start-up . ( FT )
**************• Amazon agreed buy Eero , makes wireless routers , advance smart-home ambitions . ( Reuters )
**************• Peloton , makes video-streaming stationary bikes treadmills , reportedly interviewing banks prepare I.P.O . ( WSJ )
**************• DoorDash , delivery start-up , reportedly process raising $ 500 million $ 6 billion valuation . ( WSJ )
**************• Reddit raised $ 150 million Tencent — users fear censorship . ( Verge )
**************Politics policy
**************• President Trump Gov . Andrew Cuomo New York meet today discuss revising cap deductions state local taxes . ( Bloomberg )
**************• Democratic presidential contenders see small donors , rather traditional wealthy backers , test viability 2020 race . ( WaPo )
**************• Contrary popular belief , Mr. Trump ’ presidency hurt America ’ gun lobby . ( NYT editorial )
**************Trade
**************• President Trump reportedly eager meet President Xi Jinping China discuss trade deal . ( Bloomberg )
**************• American tariffs Chinese goods reduced two countries ’ trade imbalance — without helping U.S. companies . ( Axios )
**************• Chinese investments Israeli tech companies raising security concerns . ( WSJ )
**************Tech
**************• What ’ like contractor one Apple ’ less glamorous offices ? Not much fun . ( Bloomberg )
**************• Mars One Ventures , promised one-way trips red planet , bankrupt . ( Verge )
**************• If New York ’ want new Amazon campus , Newark . ( Bloomberg )
**************• Alphabet Microsoft discreetly warning A.I . could harm brands . ( Wired )
**************The Jeff Bezos saga
**************• The American Media Inc. lawyer reportedly sought deal Mr. Bezos ’ private photos Amazon Kindle executive . ( WSJ )
**************• American Media reportedly asked Justice Department whether needed register foreign agent ties Saudi Arabia . ( WSJ )
**************• The WaPo found tricky situation : reporting owner ’ fight The National Enquirer , cause battle . ( NYT )
**************Best rest
**************• Could leveraged loans sink U.S. economy ? ( FT )
**************• For two years , Goldman Sachs bet companies strong balance sheets . Not anymore . ( CNBC )
**************• The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says ’ “ mania ” share buybacks , ’ worried social consequences . ( CNBC )
**************• Toys ‘ R ’ Us planning comeback later year . ( NYT )
**************• Is corporate America headed toward earnings recession ? ( DealBook )
**************Thanks reading ! We ’ see tomorrow .
**************We ’ love feedback . Please email thoughts suggestions business @ nytimes.com .
**************Advertisement
**************China Daily
**************Advertisement
**************Share
**************China ’ opening-up policies led improvements life business .
**************
**************The news editorial staffs The New York Times role post ’ creation .
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************New Zealand ’ prime minister moved swiftly ban weapons mass killing gunman attacked two mosques .
**************By The Editorial Board
**************The editorial board represents opinions board , editor publisher . It separate newsroom Op-Ed section .
**************The murder 50 Muslim worshipers New Zealand , allegedly 28-year-old Australian white supremacist , long scrutinized way violent hatreds spawned staged social media internet . But world learn way Jacinda Ardern , New Zealand ’ prime minister , responded horror .
**************Almost immediately last Friday ’ killings , Ms. Ardern listened constituents ’ outrage declared within days government would introduce new controls military-style weapons Christchurch shooter many mass killers United States used rampages . And delivered .
**************On Thursday , Ms. Ardern announced ban military-style semiautomatic automatic weapons , parts used turn rifles weapons high-capacity ammunition magazines . “ It ’ us , ” said , “ ’ national interest ’ safety . ”
**************Earlier week , told Parliament social media sites must address ease internet used spew hate images violence . “ We simply sit back accept platforms exist said responsibility place published , ” said . “ It case profit , responsibility . ”
**************Ms. Ardern ’ propose immediate measures limit reach Facebook , Twitter internet publishers , ’ obvious could done without trampling freedom speech . But made clear believed social media platforms , like gun manufacturers dealers , bore responsibility carnage visited Christchurch many communities recent years .
**************The new gun proposal require considerable fine-tuning defining becomes law . New Zealand ’ existing laws relatively lenient , large percentage estimated 1.2 million 1.5 million firearms owned 250,000 people registered . It known many become illegal new laws .
**************But display one deranged man weapons designed combat seemed persuade majority New Zealanders , strong majority Parliament , need ban rapid-firing weapons .
**************That attitude stood stark contrast way National Rifle Association political allies United States resisted restrictions weapons like AR-15 , semiautomatic rifle used several mass killings .
**************In New Zealand , took one mass shooting awaken government . In United States , even string mass killings — 26 dead school Newtown , Conn. ; 49 nightclub Orlando ; 58 concert Las Vegas ; 17 school Parkland , Fla. — enough . Nor fact 73 percent Americans say needs done curb gun violence , according recent polling .
**************The ban terrorists ’ weapon choice one areas Ms. Ardern showed leadership looks like time crisis . In lieu trite messages , donned black head scarf led group politicians visit victims ’ families ; speaking without script school victims attended , urged pupils “ let New Zealand place tolerance racism . Ever. ” She told grieving families , “ We know grief , walk every stage . ”
**************And striking gesture , refused utter name suspected killer . “ He may sought notoriety , New Zealand give nothing , ” said . “ Not even name . ”
**************After atrocity , world ’ leaders unite clearly condemning racism , sharing grief victims stripping haters weapons . Ms. Ardern shown way .
**************The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram .
**************Advertisement
**************China Daily
**************Advertisement
**************Share
**************Get 3D view China ’ government plans 2019 .
**************
**************The news editorial staffs The New York Times role post ’ creation .
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************The journalist Maria Ressa facing criminal charges social media threats .
**************By Kara Swisher
**************Ms. Swisher covers technology contributing opinion writer .
**************Harassing journalists one Rodrigo Duterte ’ specialties . Mr. Duterte , strongman president Philippines , going Maria Ressa , former CNN reporter founder online news site Rappler , two years . The campaign combines criminal charges Facebook smears intended tarnish reputation spread lies work .
**************Last week , Ms. Ressa spent night jail charge “ cyberlibel ” 2012 article Rappler published allegations corrupt ties businessman judge .
**************When spoke Skype Thursday attempts silence , said , “ I adjust normal , even nothing normal this. ” She added , “ It scare , meant scare everyone else . ”
**************Technically , spent night conference room , rather cell — National Bureau Investigation agents trying “ nice , ” told .
**************It perhaps small gracious act relentless assault Ms. Ressa Rappler .
**************[ Kara Swisher answered questions Twitter . ]
**************Rappler President Duterte ’ brutal regime , publishing articles extrajudicial killings human rights abuses . In mid-2017 , State Union speech , president struck back criticizing Rappler owned Americans ( investors indeed United States ) . He attempted get license revoked . Ms. Ressa charged tax evasion . Then arrest cyberlibel , considered criminal act .
**************While seemed tired legal roadblocks , undaunted even funny spoke . “ I think I paid bail Imelda Marcos , ” said , referring shoe-loving wife longtime ruler Philippines went ignominy .
**************It morning Manila , journalism . Instead , adding security Rappler ’ offices protect 100 employees forking money pay lawyers . Legal fees already account quarter operating budget , said .
**************She also contending relentless manipulation social media says government-friendly sources spread false information Rappler . These trolls focus Facebook , Filipinos get news . She called foreign agent , troublemaker , tax cheat , traitor ugly .
**************Last week , two people Ms. Ressa suspects working government managed slip Rappler ’ building broadcast video Facebook Live outside door urging protests social media attacks . Among comments feed : “ Hang Ressa , ” “ Bomb Ressa ” “ Behead . ”
**************Government officials said “ enjoying ” attention . She , Ms. Ressa reported video Facebook . She already provided company copious evidence way platform abused Mr. Duterte ’ troll army . This time Facebook responded blocking user posted video 30 days ( may popped Facebook Singapore , though ) .
**************It ’ cat-and-mouse game , Ms. Ressa said Facebook haphazard enforcing rules . While individual executives helpful , Ms. Ressa said , ’ hard time dealing Facebook , responded slowly .
**************“ Facebook world ’ largest distributor news yet refused gatekeeper , ” told recent onstage interview . “ And , allow lies actually get playing field facts , taints entire public sphere. ” At point , said , Facebook “ take lies . ”
**************As noted Thursday night , “ A lie told million times truth. ” On social media , though , like billion times .
**************Ms. Ressa said wished tried stop online abuse sooner : “ We ignored far long lesson I learned . ”
**************She said would continue try work Facebook social media outlets . “ Looking social media feed impossible , since I ’ defend I watch reputation dragged , ” said . Lately , Ms. Ressa said , attacks Twitter worsened . And I weirdly pummeled platform users calling Ms. Ressa con artist since I posted I speaking .
**************To try deal , Ms. Ressa said , thinks lot Reinhold Niebuhr ’ Serenity Prayer . “ I look stuff area control , like making sure staff safe business able continue , ” said , weary sigh . “ I ’ want story . ”
**************The Times committed publishing diversity letters editor . We ’ like hear think articles . Here tips . And ’ email : letters @ nytimes.com .
**************Follow The New York Times Opinion section Facebook , Twitter ( @ NYTopinion ) Instagram , sign Opinion Today newsletter .
**************Kara Swisher , editor large technology news website Recode producer Recode Decode podcast Code Conference , contributing opinion writer . @ karaswisher • Facebook
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Charlotte Graham-McLay
**************WELLINGTON , New Zealand — In New Zealand , members public accustomed seeing top government officials grocery store street , unencumbered security guards common parts world .
**************The country ’ prime minister , Jacinda Ardern , even jokingly recounted Stephen Colbert “ The Late Show ” approached chatty strangers shopped maternity bras .
**************But Thursday morning , government minister attacked walking work alone capital city , leading Ms. Ardern warn New Zealanders ’ unusual level access country ’ lawmakers taken granted .
**************“ We environment New Zealand politicians accessible , ’ something feel proud , ” Ms Ardern said . “ We , , serve people . But today ’ events really show take granted . ”
**************The victim , James Shaw , 45 , co-leader left-leaning Green Party minister climate change , told police grabbed hit Thursday morning attack , leaving black eye cuts face . After treated scene , went attend meeting Parliament admitting examination hospital , remained Thursday afternoon .
**************Pete Huggins , Green Party spokesman , said Mr. Shaw told police assailant knew name , although officers said whether believe attack planned , motivated .
**************The episode rattled New Zealand , Mr. Huggins described “ close-knit community open society . ”
**************Unlike many countries , including United States Britain , prime minister lawmaker accompanied round-the-clock security personnel ; government ministers lawmakers . Residents Wellington , New Zealand ’ capital , regularly see elected officials walking cycling streets alone , politicians opt take public transportation rather using government vehicles .
**************“ I would hate see go , ” Marama Davidson , lawmaker leads Green Party Mr. Shaw , said news conference Thursday .
**************“ It would shame lose way people approach us access us country , ” added . “ That ’ one things I value way politics New Zealand . ”
**************The police arrested charged 47-year-old man attack Mr. Shaw . The man , police identify , appear Wellington District Court Friday .
**************Lawmakers across political spectrum joined condemning attack . Wellington ’ mayor , Justin Lester , wrote social media assailant ’ behavior “ outrageous ” New Zealanders “ lucky unparalleled access ” elected representatives .
**************Members public also expressed shock . One Twitter user branded attack Mr. Shaw “ assault democracy. ” Another said hoped attack “ awful one canary coal mine moment ” New Zealand .
**************Bryce Edwards , veteran New Zealand political commentator , said down-to-earth qualities commanded respect New Zealanders . “ We like politicians ‘ one us ’ ‘ us , ’ ” said .
**************While clear whether attack politically motivated , lawmakers took opportunity denounce said trend toward over-the-top reactions people disagreed politicians .
**************David Parker , trade minister lawmaker center-left Labour Party , cited called “ extreme opinion feeding political biases causing instability people ” “ fed social media platforms . ”
**************Ms. Ardern stopped short saying security beefed lawmakers . The episode took place inner-city area Wellington , minutes Ms. Ardern ’ residence .
**************Violence New Zealand lawmakers rare . The last one make global headlines recent years 2016 , government minister , Steven Joyce , hit face sex toy thrown protester , episode caused mirth fury .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur
**************SHANGHAI — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei preparing sue United States government barring federal agencies using company ’ products , according two people familiar matter .
**************The lawsuit filed Eastern District Texas , Huawei American headquarters , according people , requested anonymity discuss confidential plans . The company plans announce suit week .
**************The move could aimed forcing United States government make case Chinese equipment maker publicly . It part broad push Huawei defend campaign led United States undermine company , Washington sees security threat . Executives spoken strongly America ’ actions , new marketing campaigns aimed mending company ’ image among consumers .
**************For many years , United States officials said Beijing could use Huawei ’ telecommunication equipment spy disrupt communication networks . The company denied allegations , major wireless carriers AT & T Verizon effectively prevented using Huawei ’ equipment result .
**************Over past year , Washington ramped pressure firm , preparing take major role construction next-generation wireless networks around world . American officials urged governments ban use Huawei ’ products . This year , Justice Department filed criminal charges company chief financial officer connection evading American sanctions Iran .
**************A hearing set begin week Canada determine whether company ’ finance chief , Meng Wanzhou , extradited United States face charges . Ms. Meng ’ lawyers sued Canadian government police , arguing circumstances arrest detention December violated rights .
**************[ Many Canadians see Ms. Meng ’ case example foreign money ’ influence Vancouver . ]
**************The criminal case Ms. Meng United States could complicated comments President Trump White House engaged trade negotiations China . While criminal cases traditionally independent matters , Mr. Trump indicated Huawei ’ fate could bargaining chip .
**************During meeting Oval Office delegation Chinese officials last month , Mr. Trump said , “ We ’ making decision , ” asked would drop criminal charges Huawei part trade deal . He added , “ We ’ talking attorney general . ”
**************A lawsuit Huawei United States expected challenge section defense spending authorization law approved last year . The provision blocks executive agencies using telecom equipment made Huawei another Chinese company , ZTE .
**************According one people familiar matter , Huawei likely argue provision “ bill attainder , ” legislative act singles person group punishment without trial . The Constitution forbids Congress pass bills .
**************Huawei ’ plans final . It could still decide change course , file lawsuit .
**************The United States Embassy Beijing immediately respond request comment . A call placed outside business hours United States Court House Plano , Tex. , Huawei ’ American headquarters , answered .
**************[ China announced espionage accusations former Canadian diplomat Monday , days Ms. Meng ’ extradition hearing set take place . ]
**************In many ways , Huawei case echoes another company aroused security concerns United States : Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab .
**************Around two years ago , American officials began expressing worries Moscow could use company ’ software gather intelligence . The company denied allegations . But September 2017 , Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies begin removing company ’ products government systems . Congress codified ban spending law .
**************Kaspersky filed two lawsuits response , arguing prohibition amounted bill attainder . In May , judge District Columbia dismissed suits , ruling Congress motivated legitimate desire protect government computer networks Russian intrusion . The judge also said Kaspersky ’ sales American government small fraction company ’ business ban especially harsh .
**************An appeals court upheld ruling months later . Banning Kaspersky “ prophylactic , punitive , ” measure , judge appeal , David S. Tatel , wrote .
**************“ Given insignificant probability Kaspersky ’ products could compromised federal systems magnitude harm intrusion could wrought , Congress ’ decision remove Kaspersky federal networks represents reasonable balanced response , ” Judge Tatel wrote .
**************Raymond Zhong reported Shanghai , Paul Mozur Hong Kong . Alan Rappeport contributed reporting Washington .
**************Follow Raymond Zhong Paul Mozur Twitter : @ zhonggg @ paulmozur .
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Azam Ahmed Kirk Semple
**************MEXICO CITY — Mexican officials carrying Trump administration ’ immigration agenda across wide stretches border , undercutting Mexican government ’ promises defend migrants support search better life .
**************The Mexican authorities blocking groups migrants border towns , refusing allow onto international bridges apply asylum United States , intercepting unaccompanied minors reach American soil , helping manage lists asylum seekers behalf American authorities limit number people crossing border .
**************Breaking decades asylum practice , Mexican government also allowed Trump administration send 120 men , women children Tijuana await decisions asylum applications United States . The program could expanded border crossings soon next week .
**************Officials inside administration Mexico ’ new president , Andrés Manuel López Obrador , called stance migrants strategic decision anger President Trump .
**************He ’ believe change Mr. Trump ’ mind , contend . Furthermore , officials say , Mr. López Obrador wanted jeopardize aspects deeply interconnected relationship two countries , ranging elaborate regional trading arrangements information sharing border security , transnational crime terrorism . So avoided bruising potentially costly public fight issue .
**************A lifelong defender poor , Mr. López Obrador often refers plans Mexico grand transformation , placing ambitions nation par great leaders .
**************He burnished everyman credentials cutting government salaries , flying coach around country opening opulent presidential palace public . He also vastly reduced number Central American migrants Mexico deports soil .
**************But everything transformed .
**************Exhibit A Migrant Protection Protocols , Trump administration ’ policy require asylum seekers remain Mexican side border await decisions fate . Rights groups contend dumps migrants increasingly violent Mexico impairs access legal counsel family support United States .
**************Mr. López Obrador ’ administration , came office saying would cooperate Mr. Trump ’ anti-immigration agenda , gone along several fronts , including accepting women children despite earlier promises take adult male asylum seekers .
**************The Mexican government argued policy requiring asylum seekers wait Mexico imposed United States consented humanitarian reasons .
**************It also true Mr. López Obrador , giving Mr. Trump ’ border demands rarely saying word American president daily press briefings carries little political cost home .
**************[ Read latest edition Crossing Border , limited-run newsletter life United States Mexico meet . Sign receive next issue inbox . ]
**************To many Mexicans , fate migrants secondary domestic concerns jobs , security corruption . Mr. López Obrador retains 80 percent approval rating , despite government ’ willingness take back migrants applying asylum United States .
**************“ If accept handful people back Mexico , ’ really problem us , even politically , ” said one official authorized discuss internal deliberations . “ What really want avoid public fight Trump . ”
**************But effort avoid cross-border fight , Mexican government chosen politics humanitarian ideals , critics contend .
**************“ Mexico continuing play role U.S. thinks , contain migrant influx , period , ” said Melissa Vertiz Hernández , coordinates Working Group Immigration Policy , network civil society rights groups Mexico .
**************The delicate balance United States left Mexican government without clear , consistent immigration policy , Mexican states municipalities along border often position fending pressure American counterparts .
**************In Mexican border city Reynosa , instance , almost one allowed cross bridge apply asylum neighboring McAllen , Texas . They typically blocked apprehended Mexican officials , forcing migrants try luck towns .
**************In city Piedras Negras , officials rounded hundreds migrants arrived caravan recent weeks kept tight watch shelter limited access outsiders , advocates say . After public outcry , center closed many bused cities towns along border .
**************The mayor Ciudad Juárez , meanwhile , threatened sue neighboring governor shipping migrants town . It become game political hot potato , desperate Central Americans fleeing poverty violence caught middle .
**************Elsewhere along border , shelter officials say manage lists asylum applicants name , nationality , age documentation assist Mexican officials complying American border patrol mandates .
**************The Mexican government resisting Mr. Trump ways , official Mr. López Obrador ’ government insisted . Even acquiescing Trump administration Migrant Protection Protocols done strategically , according official two others briefed plan .
**************By allowing program start San Diego Tijuana , Mexican officials argued , legal challenges United States go federal courts Northern District California , generally seen liberal . This matters time many Americans focused beat Mr. Trump 2020 elections , particular leveraging Mexican-American vote .
**************But many activists far confident legal challenge put end program .
**************“ I think ’ incredibly risky move , ” said Stephanie Leutert , director Mexico Security Initiative University Texas Austin . “ I ’ think put country ’ foreign migratory policy hands civil society organization another country . ”
**************On Feb. 14 , civil society organization , American Civil Liberties Union , several advocacy groups filed lawsuit challenging Trump administration ’ policy . A decision temporary restraining order expected coming days .
**************The lawsuit , filed behalf 11 asylum seekers returned Mexico recent weeks , accuses Trump administration violating federal international migration human rights laws .
**************Advocates contend forcibly sending asylum seekers Tijuana , Trump administration plunged unfamiliar dangerous environment lives may jeopardy .
**************Killings Tijuana skyrocketed recent years turf war local drug market . In 2018 , city posted deadliest year record , 2,500 killings .
**************The Trump administration first announced new policy December , Jan. 28 head Mexico ’ migration agency said Mexican government imposed restrictions enactment .
**************But Mexican officials backed many initial restrictions , including refusal accept women children . Trump administration officials said plan expand program ports entry along border . The López Obrador administration said little publicly changes .
**************In Tijuana , several returnees — three single men , single woman , two mothers traveling three children — described confusion dismay finding Mexico .
**************“ I idea I ’ going survive , ” said Yanira , 34-year-old migrant El Salvador feared pursued people said fleeing home country .
**************Yanira said left El Salvador three children — ages 8 , 11 12 — local gang tried recruit middle child threatened violence unless agreed .
**************When stepped onto Mexican soil led back across border American officials , broke .
**************“ I cried cried , ” recalled .
**************Mexican officials said provide shelter care returnees , essentially leaving network community groups Tijuana elsewhere state Baja California .
**************But shelter network extraordinary pressure almost-continual arrival migrants traveling caravans , pushed centers beyond capacity .
**************Sister Salomé Limas , social worker Instituto Madre Asunta migrant shelter Tijuana , said currently housing 120 women children — space designed 44 .
**************Among migrants several families seeking asylum United States returned recent weeks Trump policy .
**************Sister Salomé said shelter house families first court date United States , late March . After , sure .
**************“ What ’ going happen ? ” said . “ We ’ know . ”
**************Paulina Villegas contributed reporting Mexico City .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Good Monday . ( Want email ? Sign . )
**************In wake two fatal crashes involving 737 Max 8 airplane shared similarities , Boeing finds prosecutors regulators inspecting development processes safety assessments .
**************• A grand jury Washington , D.C. , issued subpoena dated March 11 — day Ethiopian Airlines crash — seeking documents least one person involved development 737 Max jets , WSJ reports .
**************• The Transportation Department inspector general ’ office also reportedly examining plane ’ design certification second deadly crash .
**************• An investigation The Seattle Times found F.A.A . delegated wide responsibility 737 Max safety assessment Boeing . The resulting analysis included “ crucial flaws , ” according investigation .
**************• And Bloomberg reports early seven years ago , F.A.A . employees warned Boeing “ much sway safety approvals new aircraft . ”
**************Boeing said statement Sunday “ aircraft certification processes well established consistently produced safe aircraft designs. ” It added “ 737 Max certification program followed F.A.A. ’ standard certification process . ”
**************The ride-hailing company start road show I.P.O . today New York City . It ’ short ambition : Lyft hopes achieve valuation much $ 23 billion .
**************In updated prospectus , Lyft said hopes raise nearly $ 2.4 billion I.P.O . That figure close $ 2.16 billion revenue generated last year .
**************At high end proposed stock price , $ 68 , company would valued $ 23 billion . That would make stakes held company ’ founders , Logan Green John Zimmer , worth hundreds millions dollars apiece . The company expected price offering March 28 , would trade Nasdaq next day .
**************Lyft poised become one biggest market debuts tech company since Alibaba Group ’ I.P.O . 2014 . ( Until Uber goes public later year , least . )
**************But I.P.O . without controversy . It ’ facing backlash investors ’ happy dual-class stock structure . Paul Singer , head activist hedge fund Elliott Management , one , writing FT op-ed :
**************“ Those insight daring found business deserve respect . But sell vast majority company public , allowed run forever without shareholder input . Public ownership must mean public accountability . ”
**************The two German lenders announced yesterday formally begin merger talks . Now must convince critics combining good thing .
**************Deutsche Bank said reviewing “ strategic options ” shoring profitability growth . Christian Sewing , firm ’ C.E.O. , told employees , “ I consistently stressed consolidation German European banking sector important topic us . ”
**************The combined bank would one Europe ’ biggest , $ 2 trillion assets one-fifth private customers Germany .
**************Going public signals deal political backing . Germany ’ finance minister argued country needs strong national champion compete foreign banks . ( Here FT ’ list key decision-makers deal . )
**************But opposition merger strong . German unions criticized plan , fearing tens thousands job cuts . And Elisa Martinuzzi Bloomberg Opinion warns ’ fix bigger problems German banking system .
**************The Trump administration ’ campaign prevent countries using Huawei equipment 5G wireless networks faltered , Julian E. Barnes Adam Satariano NYT write .
**************American officials pressuring threatening nations shun Huawei . The push rooted U.S. concerns Chinese telecom companies significant security threat , could help Beijing spy nations .
**************But ’ really working . Britain , Germany , India United Arab Emirates signaled unlikely follow America ’ lead .
**************The U.S. campaign criticized lack evidence . American intelligence briefings reportedly failed clearly show Chinese government used Huawei steal information . ( Read five experts two senators say whether threat . ) Some European Asian officials also believe President Trump may fully support fight .
**************American officials want find ways curb Huawei ’ rise , Mr. Barnes Mr. Satariano write , “ including possibly restricting American companies supplying Huawei key components needs build 5G networks across world . ”
**************More : Huawei built operating system smartphones computers , used company longer use software developed Google Microsoft .
**************The financial sector ’ felt impact # MeToo much industries . But David Gelles NYT reports , lawsuit asset manager TCW could change .
**************• Sara Tirschwell , created distressed-debt fund TCW fired 2017 , sued firm ; former boss , Jess Ravich ; C.E.O. , David Lippman . She claimed dismissal retaliation reporting sexual harassment claim Mr. Ravich , gender discrimination breach contract .
**************• Ms. Tirschwell alleges Mr. Ravich pressured sex several times tenure firm . The first encounter made feel , according lawsuit , “ rejection would mean end Ravich ’ crucial support . ”
**************• TCW , Mr. Ravich Mr. Lippman denied allegations . “ I Sara ’ biggest supporter TCW role decision fire , ” Mr. Ravich said .
**************• So far , ’ talk settlement . Mr. Gelles writes , “ Days court rare movement — rarer still Wall Street , grievances typically dealt private , wire transfer , dealt . ”
**************Despite delivering disappointing returns investors , many C.E.O.s saw compensation climb last year , according WSJ .
**************• “ Median compensation 132 chief executives S & P 500 companies reached $ 12.4 million 2018 , $ 11.7 million group 2017 , ” WSJ calculates .
**************• “ Most C.E.O.s received substantial raises — median 6.4 percent — even though December stock-market swoon meant companies finished year posting sluggish shareholder returns . ”
**************• “ Markets pretty well , companies well , economy held , ” Robin Ferracone , executive-pay consultant , told WSJ .
**************• But also said boards may thinking forward economic slowdown , adding , “ They know ’ going bring bloom ’ rose . ”
**************The shooting mosque Christchurch , New Zealand , designed go viral internet . What ?
**************“ The attack teased Twitter , announced online message board 8chan broadcast live Facebook , ” Kevin Roose NYT writes . “ The footage replayed endlessly YouTube , Twitter Reddit , platforms scrambled take clips nearly fast new copies popped replace . ”
**************“ Online extremism regular extremism steroids . There offline equivalent experience algorithmically nudged toward strident version existing beliefs , ” Mr. Roose adds . “ People become fluent culture online extremism , make consume edgy memes , cluster harden . And , one erupts . ”
**************But telling terrorists trolls ’ easy tech companies , Christopher Mims WSJ argues . Knowing online extremists erupt act violence virtually impossible , broadcasts sudden acts violence hard automatically block .
**************More needs done . “ We need understand address poisonous pipeline extremism emerged past several years , whose ultimate effects impossible quantify clearly far big ignore , ” Mr. Roose writes . “ It ’ going away , ’ particularly getting better . ”
**************PG & E reportedly close naming Bill Johnson , outgoing head Tennessee Valley Authority , next C.E.O .
**************Google named Scott Beaumont , head greater China Korea operations , chief Asia-Pacific team .
**************Stuart Benson resigned C.F.O . MoviePass .
**************Princeville Capital , venture capital firm invests climate technology , recruited Leonardo DiCaprio adviser .
**************Deals
**************• Fidelity National Information Services agreed buy international payments processor , Worldpay , $ 34 billion . ( The companies )
**************• Caesars Entertainment Eldorado Resorts reportedly early merger talks . ( Reuters )
**************• Private equity firms like KKR CVC Capital Partners reportedly interested buying Bayer ’ animal-health division . ( Bloomberg )
**************• PagerDuty , popular start-up alerts I.T . workers tech problems need fixing , publicly filed I.P.O . ( Business Insider )
**************Politics policy
**************• Investors eagerly await Treasury Department ’ rules investing tax-advantaged opportunity zones . ( NYT )
**************• Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro monologue questioning Muslim lawmaker ’ loyalty U.S. — President Trump unhappy move . ( NYT )
**************• Cindy Yang , former owner massage parlor busted prostitution ring , come scrutiny political activities , including donations president ’ re-election campaign . ( NYT )
**************Brexit
**************• Prime Minister Theresa May expected put Brexit deal third parliamentary vote week , likely contingent gaining backing Democratic Unionist Party . ( FT )
**************• Meanwhile , Labour Party appears set support plan would seek public vote Mrs. May ’ deal approved lawmakers . ( Reuters )
**************Trade
**************• The U.S. China pushing meeting late April complete trade deal , negotiators still grappling details . ( NYT )
**************• The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska sued U.S. Treasury Department sanctions placed last year . ( CNBC )
**************• President Xi Jinping China starts series state visits Europe week bid bolster trade continent . ( Bloomberg )
**************Tech
**************• Marc Andreessen , Facebook board member , reportedly met Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Chris Wylie 2016 . If true , would suggest understood extent company ’ harvesting Facebook data . He denies claim . ( Observer , Business Insider )
**************• In related news , academic behind Cambridge Analytica ’ data mining sued Facebook defamation . ( NYT )
**************• Apple making billion-dollar bet take Netflix . Will work ? ( NYT )
**************• Tech investors including # MeToo clauses start-up deals . ( FT )
**************• Breaking tech giants suddenly become populist concept — San Francisco . ( NYT , Bloomberg )
**************Best rest
**************• In wake admissions scandal , colleges rethinking athletic special admissions . ( WSJ )
**************• The Fed likely say later week little appetite interest rate rises year . ( WSJ )
**************• Why successful joint ventures turn sour ? It ’ often success breeds desire control venture sought avoid . ( Economist )
**************• The European Central Bank unhappy E.U. ’ plans increasing supervision clearing houses . ( FT )
**************Thanks reading ! We ’ see tomorrow .
**************We ’ love feedback . Please email thoughts suggestions business @ nytimes.com .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Andrew Higgins Mujib Mashal
**************MOSCOW — Thirty years last Soviet troops retreated Afghanistan , Russia Tuesday reasserted player region , hosting talks Taliban senior Afghan politicians aimed speeding exit another superpower — time United States .
**************The talks , held Moscow ’ President Hotel , owned Kremlin , offered clearer view Taliban see end 18-year war . In room dripping chandeliers , 50 delegates — many flowing robes , Western suits ties , nearly old sometimes violent rivals — faced across large , circular conference table .
**************While Afghan politicians , part delegation led former President Hamid Karzai , spoke protecting hard gains past two decades , Taliban denounced new Afghan Constitution lays system governance built enormous cost .
**************The Taliban representatives also offered rare look see role women . While barred women public life time power , said believed women ’ rights , including education work — claim met skepticism women Afghanistan .
**************The Moscow gathering , included Taliban delegation led chief negotiator , Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai , represented significant contact senior Afghan politicians Taliban since United States toppled hard-line Islamist group power end 2001 .
**************Absent talks , however , American-backed Afghan government President Ashraf Ghani , strongly criticized meeting affront designed undermine office ’ authority Afghan state .
**************Mr. Ghani uncomfortable position , odds American backers , sees moving quickly reach deal , also others country ’ political elite rallying around American-led effort .
**************“ What agreeing , ? Where implementing power ? ” Mr. Ghani told Afghan channel ToloNews Tuesday , dismissing talks . “ They could hold hundred meetings , Afghan government , Afghan Parliament , legal institutions Afghanistan approve , agreements paper . ”
**************The delegation headed Mr. Karzai consisted entirely former officials , representatives political parties — many involved country ’ bloody civil war — current members Parliament . There two women group .
**************Afghans social media critical delegation , questioning whether represented Afghanistan .
**************“ Those meeting Moscow , pushed aside , ” said Khaled Abedy , 31 , works private company Kabul , Afghan capital . “ They want build business . The country ’ important . I think sort meeting ’ help peace process . ”
**************But Atta Muhammad Noor , one Afghan politicians delegation Moscow , said participants considered representative Afghanistan Mr. Ghani ’ government .
**************“ We fighting 40 years , people influence , Ghani , ” said Mr. Noor , longtime governor Balkh Province Mr. Ghani dismissed last year .
**************Speaking sidelines event , said foreign forces , including around 14,000 American troops , must leave Afghanistan . But cautioned withdrawn gradually , avoid repeat chaos engulfed Afghanistan abrupt Soviet pullout 1989 .
**************The talks , scheduled last two days , opened week American diplomats Taliban representatives ended six days negotiations Doha , capital Qatar . Each side said negotiations made progress toward ending conflict began United States invaded Afghanistan 2001 , long terror attacks Sept. 11 .
**************Both sides said agreed , principle , framework two issues : Taliban guarantee Afghan soil would never used terrorist groups like Al Qaeda , pledge United States withdraw troops . But many Afghans concerned Americans might eager strike deal .
**************The organizer Moscow talks ostensibly Afghan diaspora Russia , Russian government . But Afghan officials Taliban members said Kremlin playing major role orchestrating meeting behind scenes .
**************Russia , chastened damage done Soviet Union occupation Afghanistan , shown interest getting involved militarily , least directly . But positioned force reckoned , relishing Washington ’ agonies hands Taliban insurgents .
**************Russia designated Taliban terrorist organization 2003 , first strongly supported American efforts purge Afghanistan extremist Islamist groups , President Vladimir V. Putin described threat Russia ’ security .
**************But amid rising Cold War-style rivalry Moscow Washington , Russia hedged bets opening channels Taliban . Moscow allowed 10-member delegation Taliban , still officially barred terrorists , enter Russia Moscow talks .
**************On Tuesday Afghanistan , violence continued unabated . The Taliban attacked police army outposts around northern city Kunduz dawn , killing least 23 members Afghan security forces . In Takhar Province , gunmen attacked women ’ radio station , killing two staff members .
**************Mr. Karzai made appeal end bloodshed , saying Afghan soldiers Taliban fighters buried next .
**************“ All around graveyards regular Afghans — graves plenty , ” Mr. Karzai said . “ The dream every mother , hope every father buried . ”
**************Mr. Karzai first installed Afghanistan ’ leader United States late 2001 , relationship soured . He visited Russia often since leaving office 2014 , meetings Mr. Putin officials aligned Moscow ’ view United States must leave Afghanistan , Soviet Union .
**************Mr. Stanekzai , Taliban ’ chief negotiator , said speech lasting half hour group seek monopolize power inside Afghanistan . He said pursuing Islamist government , “ consultation Afghans , ” group recognize country ’ current Constitution , calling copied West .
**************Perhaps revealing part speech came described Taliban ’ view future role Afghan women . When power , group sent religious police patrol streets , giving lashes women , among things , showing ankles .
**************“ We committed rights given women Islam , ” Mr. Stanekzai said . “ Islam given women fundamental rights — trade , ownership , inheritance , education , work choice partner , security education , good life . ”
**************Considering group ’ history , Afghan women immediately questioned statement ’ sincerity .
**************But Fawzia Koofi , female member Afghan Parliament one two women attendance , said happy heard Taliban promise women would stripped rights would allowed serve prime minister — though president .
**************However , cautioned , “ We gained much last 18 years , whatever problems , want go back Taliban period . ”
**************Andrew Higgins reported Moscow , Mujib Mashal Kabul , Afghanistan . Najim Rahim contributed reporting Mazar-i-Sharif , Afghanistan ; Fahim Abed Fatima Faizi Kabul ; Taimoor Shah Kandahar , Afghanistan .
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Christine Hauser
**************It like online matchmaking service . Horse lovers want adopt wild mustang western United States browse dozens headshots .
**************From drop-down menus , choose gender , color age : 4-year-old chestnut mare , example , 9-year-old gray gelding . Some horses training , others might “ gentled , ” experience handled .
**************This Wild Horses Online , part federal Bureau Land Management ’ online adoption service . Starting month , bureau trying make wild mustang adoptions attractive paying $ 1,000 take animals , gathered public land western United States part efforts manage population .
**************The adoption program , began March 12 , intended encourage potential owners take leap adopting wild horses , whose access pasture water challenged factors including rising population droughts , said Deborah Collins , bureau ’ outreach officer .
**************Ms. Collins said government hoped people would “ take fresh look ” owning wild horse say : “ I got little help . I go find trainer . ”
**************The program first incentive type Bureau Land Management offered since Wild Free-Roaming Horses Burros Act 1971 detailed agency ’ duties legal custodian wild horses burros United States .
**************Previously , people adopted wild mustang paying $ 125 . Now , paid $ 500 front receive $ 500 balance prove owned animal responsibly year , Ms. Collins said .
**************Carrie Jim Pacileo Powell , Wyo. , drove six hours March 15 adoption event Rock Springs . The couple already adopted two mustangs , one completely trained partly trained , wanted .
**************“ I told husband I wanted try train completely wild , ” Ms. Pacileo said .
**************They came home two mustangs : 9-month-old Remmi 11-month-old Stormy .
**************“ Being younger , thought maybe would easier , ” Ms. Pacileo said .
**************She said money receive adopting horses would invested equipment hay production 40 acres .
**************“ I wanted , like ultimate symbol America , ” said .
**************More 66,000 wild horses 15,000 burros roam 26 million acres 10 states , bureau ’ latest data shows . The ideal level populations combined 26,690 , according bureau .
**************The challenge bureau balance population animals available resources public private lands . Some found rambling along highways foraging backyards , discovered open range , emaciated dying thirst , Ms. Collins said .
**************The main method population control simply move . From July February , helicopters chase wild horses corrals facilities made available adoption , sold adopted .
**************Last year , 11,000 horses burros removed public lands , nearly decade , bureau figures show . As last month , 50,000 horses available adoption corrals off-range pastures long-term , Ms. Collins said .
**************Some bureau ’ measures attracted controversy use helicopters chase animals removal horses open range primary method population control . Some worried wild horses could end slaughterhouses abroad .
**************The American Wild Horse Campaign , advocacy group , said statement criticizing bureaus ’ new adoption program agency employ population control measures , fertility methods . “ The B.L.M . adopt way situation faces stockpiling 50,000 horses holding facilities , ” said Suzanne Roy , group ’ executive director .
**************Ms. Collins said bureau tried fertility measures , including sending volunteers administer birth control vaccinations mares wild . But effects vaccinations last year 18 months , results adequately addressed overpopulation , said .
**************The bureau ’ push make adoptions enticing focused training . The agency working nonprofit Mustang Heritage Foundation , started Extreme Mustang Makeover , national competition trainers 100 days turn wild mustang well-behaved steed .
**************Wild mustangs also trained federal prisons rehabilitation programs coordinated bureau .
**************The $ 1,000 adoption payout costs bureau half would keep animal year , Ms. Collins said . For owners , mustangs cost less keep breeds , thoroughbreds quarter horses , said Mary Santagata , adopts buys mustangs All Kings Horses , rescue organization Northford , Conn .
**************Adopted mustangs current vaccinations , Ms. Santagata said , annual veterinary care could cost $ 300 “ problems. ” About $ 50 every eight 10 weeks goes toward hooves professionally trimmed . Many owners feed mustangs hay , similar diet open range , rather expensive grain hay , said .
**************“ They hardy , ” Ms. Santagata said . “ They built survive . ”
**************Other costs include adapting corrals six-foot-high paneled fencing wild horses escape , providing open-sided sheds enter need shelter , easily led .
**************The expensive part owning wild horse , Ms. Santagata said , paying experienced trainers . At 41 , around horses life , said could handle basic “ gentling ” wild mustang . When horses corrals , uses soft opening , approaching retreating , get accustomed .
**************“ You walk around see reacts , ” said . “ I mustangs would look months . ”
**************She gradually introduces halters led around , able accomplish three months , said . For advanced skills like riding , sends mustangs professionals , grown know .
**************“ I look like I adopting living legend , ” Ms. Santagata said . “ They mystical creature wild , lucky ones find . ”
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Nicholas Casey
**************BOGOTÁ , Colombia — Jorge Ramos , news anchor television network Univision , said detained Venezuelan government confrontational interview President Nicolás Maduro Monday evening Miraflores Palace Caracas .
**************“ He ’ like things asking lack democracy Venezuela , torture political prisoners , ” Mr. Ramos recounted Univision broadcast , said released government .
**************Mr. Ramos said detained “ two hours ” let go allowed return hotel . He said government confiscated crew ’ equipment , including phones memory cards .
**************“ We ’ anything , ” said . “ They interviews . ”
**************On Monday night , Kimberly Breier , assistant secretary state Western Hemisphere State Department , said Mr. Ramos detained called government release immediately .
**************“ The world watching , ” wrote Twitter .
**************Venezuela ’ government dispute account Mr. Ramos temporarily held , appeared lay blame anchor .
**************“ We ’ lend cheap shows , ” said Jorge Rodríguez , government communications minister .
**************He added , “ Hundreds journalists come received decent treatment always give journalistic work . ”
**************Mr. Ramos , Mexico-born American journalist , known confrontational questions , particularly leaders attacked press . In 2015 , tangled Donald J. Trump , presidential candidate , news conference Mr. Trump eventually guards force room .
**************“ Go back Univision , ” Mr. Trump said .
**************Univision largest Spanish-language television network United States .
**************Mr. Maduro recently stuck friendly interviews state television outlets .
**************But since current crisis , faces major challenge Venezuela ’ opposition , whose leader , Juan Guaidó also claims presidency , Mr. Maduro conducted number interviews international media outlets including BBC , Eurovision ABC , also conducted interview Monday .
**************In ABC interview , Mr. Maduro defended criticism blocking aid shipments , opposition White House demanded let pass Venezuela ’ borders Colombia Brazil .
**************“ Everything United States government done doomed failure , ” Mr. Maduro said . “ They ’ trying fabricate crisis justify political escalation military intervention Venezuela bring war South America . ”
**************Mr. Ramos said showing images children eating dumpster Mr. Maduro , common sight Venezuela , president presided shortages food medicine .
**************“ He got interview , ” Mr. Ramos said . “ Immediately afterward , one ministers , Jorge Rodríguez , came say interview ’ authorized . ”
**************Then , Mr. Ramos said , detained .
**************Later Monday night , Mr. Ramos , writes column syndicated New York Times Licensing Group , told Reuters crew would deported Tuesday .
**************
**************
**************video
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Best Late Night
**************By Giovanni Russonello
**************Welcome Best Late Night , rundown previous night ’ highlights lets sleep — lets us get paid watch comedy . If ’ interested hearing The Times regularly great TV , sign Watching newsletter get recommendations straight inbox .
**************Stephen Colbert admitted ’ happy see President Trump Congress apparently nearing border security deal , would help avert government shutdown . But said wished could press reset political conversation .
**************“ We ’ supposed care whether Trump Nancy lost , Trump caved Nancy ’ dancing end zone , ” said . “ But nothing — nothing — happened government 2019 affected anyone . Where ’ infrastructure bill ? Where ’ immigration bill ? Where ’ fix health care ? We celebrating — supposed celebrating — ’ close deal achieve absolute minimum : government ! ”
**************Colbert pointed reports preparations possible border wall already damaged butterfly habitats Texas . He argued Trump ought sympathy insects .
**************“ After , ’ got lot common butterflies . They ’ fragile creatures bright , iridescent coloring paper-thin skin . It ’ Trump never left larval stage. ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
**************Colbert also tweaked Democrats showed clip Representative Nita Lowey insisting lawmakers agreed fund partial “ barrier , ” “ wall . ”
**************“ Oh , wall , barrier ! A clinching legal argument first made landmark case Potato v. Potato. ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
**************Jimmy Kimmel ’ excited recent news sequel film “ Frozen ” come fall .
**************“ Just ‘ Baby Shark ’ song ’ finally starting get heads , ’ new batch ‘ Frozen ’ songs way . For ’ kids , ‘ Frozen ’ street-legal drug children ’ 10 times addictive ‘ Paw Patrol ’ gummy worms combined . In one , Disney finally answer question , ‘ What made bunch money ? ’ ” — JIMMY KIMMEL
**************Trevor Noah excited Howard Schultz ’ middle-of-the-road potential candidacy . He criticized Schultz , former chief executive Starbucks , saying CNN town hall ’ “ see race . ”
**************“ It would , like , ‘ How going solve black unemployment ? ’ And guy would like , ‘ What mean black unemployment ? All I see staggering unemployment among people named Jamal . Anyway , ’ February , happy History Month ! ’ ” — TREVOR NOAH
**************“ Tomorrow Valentine ’ Day . St. Valentine , course , patron saint seasonal marketing. ” — STEPHEN COLBERT
**************“ Tomorrow , Auntie Anne ’ offering special heart-shaped pretzels . It ’ great deal hopeless romantics taking dates La Guardia. ” — JIMMY FALLON
**************Samantha Bee went bat ambitious Green New Deal plan Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez unveiled month .
**************On “ Conan , ” Kay Jewelers Tinder Collection featured bejeweled inscriptions “ Please Don ’ Murder Me ” “ What ’ Your Last Name ? ”
**************Bradley Cooper , director star “ A Star Is Born , ” “ The Late Show ” Thursday . With Oscars 10 days away , anticipation probably hang air .
**************Aubrey Plaza hosting Film Independent Spirit Awards month . She ’ die-hard fan independent cinema , looking forward bringing back “ intimate vibe ” awards show televised .
**************Plus , Ideas What Watch Tonight :
**************The 50 Best Movies Netflix Right Now
**************The 25 Best Films 21st Century
**************The Best Movies Amazon Prime Video Right Now
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Declan Walsh
**************CAIRO — President Omar Hassan al-Bashir Sudan imposed yearlong state emergency dissolved federal state governments Friday , attempt end months nationwide street protests shaken authority three decades rule .
**************In televised address broadcast live presidential palace Khartoum , Mr. al-Bashir declared state emergency , disbanded federal government , replaced state governors military generals .
**************Mr. al-Bashir also said pausing , ending , effort amend Sudan ’ constitution could run third term office current one ends 2020 .
**************Reuters , citing presidential statement , reported Friday night Mr. al-Bashir appointed caretaker administration , leaving current defense , foreign justice ministers place .
**************In speech . acknowledged economic hardship triggered first protests December , said protest movement hijacked elements “ agendas ” achieve “ zero sum scenarios . ”
**************Mr. al-Bashir , wanted International Criminal Court charges war crimes , ruled Sudan iron fist decades , immediate implications state emergency unclear . It seemed signal hardening attitude toward protests , led young professionals angered economic decay corruption become hallmarks Mr. al-Bashir ’ rule .
**************The demonstrations first began Dec. 19 town Atbara , focused soaring bread prices . They quickly grew movement calling ouster president , near daily protests spreading cities across country .
**************The protesters come across Sudanese society , including sections shrinking upper middle class withered country ’ precipitous economic slide . Soaring fuel prices caused factories close , youth employment stands 27 percent , according World Bank estimates .
**************“ Our country passing difficult complicated phase national history , ” Mr. al-Bashir said speech Friday .
**************He blamed external factors collapse , protesters say stems decades kleptocratic , incompetent rule . Their frequent chant marches — riot police arrive tear gas sometimes bullets — , “ Just fall , ! ”
**************Protest leaders say 1,000 people arrested crackdown led feared National Intelligence Security Service . Internet access restricted effort block social media posts used mostly young protesters organize demonstrations .
**************The government said 31 people died protest-related violence . Human Rights Watch put toll 51 people killed since mid-December .
**************On Friday , Mr. al-Bashir stumbled several times read speech . In attempt mollify protesters , offered prayers killed announced plans economic reform new government , yet fully formed . He invited opposition “ move forward engage dialogue regarding current issues country . ”
**************In recent years , Mr. al-Bashir fired marginalized potential rivals power , little long rule suggests new willingness rapprochement .
**************Mr. al-Bashir came power military coup 1989 , since Sudan endured famines , American missile strikes , isolation civil war led independence South Sudan 2011 . Two years , International Criminal Court ordered Mr. al-Bashir arrested charges played “ essential role ” atrocities , including murder , rape , torture displacement civilians conflict Darfur region Sudan .
**************In 2017 , United States lifted sanctions Sudan , relief failed stem steep economic decline . Mr. al-Bashir lobbied State Department remove Sudan list state sponsors terrorism , factor country ’ economic woes .
**************Before televised address , Sudan ’ intelligence chief , Salah Abdallah Gosh , told reporters Mr. al-Bashir would announce resignation head ruling National Congress Party .
**************But Mr. al-Bashir said nothing speech party , activists fear state emergency could presage even harsher measures movement .
**************In immediate aftermath speech , however , demonstrators appeared undeterred . Videos posted social media suggested protests rule continued Khartoum .
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Ceylan Yeginsu
**************Britain ’ chancellor Exchequer , Philip Hammond , delivered statement country ’ economy Wednesday something fiscal nonevent , specter Britain ’ withdrawal European Union , Brexit , hanging every economic projection .
**************Mr. Hammond ’ main message — could deliver funds public spending British Parliament reaches deal Brexit — came day lawmakers rejected Prime Minister Theresa May ’ plan large margin .
**************With Mrs. May sitting behind , Mr. Hammond conspicuously called lawmakers “ put aside differences seek compromise ” Brexit , something neither prime minister Labour leader , Jeremy Corbyn , yet accepted .
**************“ Higher unemployment , lower wages , higher prices shops . That British people voted June 2016 , ” said , referring 2016 referendum leave European Union .
**************Here five takeaways chancellor ’ spring statement .
**************The uncertainty surrounding Brexit slowdown global economy cut growth 2019 1.2 percent 1.6 percent projected last year ’ autumn budget .
**************The British economy set grow 1.4 percent 2020 1.6 percent following two years , according official forecasts independent Office Budget Responsibility .
**************One bright spot wage growth , revised upward least 3 percent year , work force expanding 600,000 2023 , Mr. Hammond said .
**************With public sector borrowing trending , Mr. Hammond pledged increase Brexit dividend 26.6 billion pounds , $ 35 billion , comes catch : British lawmakers would vote pronto leave European Union deal .
**************In statement , Office Budget Responsibility attributed improved fiscal climate higher income tax receipts lower expected interest costs .
**************Once , Mr. Hammond hedged good news familiar caveat : Parliament first agree deal Brexit .
**************A smooth Brexit see “ deal dividend , ” economic boost free resources schools , police social care , areas suffered significantly decade budget cuts conservative government ’ austerity policy .
**************Analysts quick point government making promises time , promised spending increases failed materialize .
**************“ The repeated promise austerity coming end ring hollow millions low wage , disabled unemployed people see social security tax credits frozen another year April , ” Dr. Mary-Ann Stephenson , director Women ’ Budget Group , said Wednesday .
**************The government fund free sanitary products secondary schools colleges England response concerns girls missing school afford buy products , Mr. Hammond said .
**************The announcement comes two-year campaign started Amika George , 19 , read reports schoolgirls northern city Leeds using newspaper , socks toilet paper could afford sanitary products would sometimes miss school avoid embarrassment .
**************“ It ’ definitely really huge number , ” Ms. George said phone interview . “ This ’ small minority people ’ affecting . It ’ definitely prevalent , ’ something government needs take action . ”
**************Knife crime , rose fourth straight year 2018 , hot-button issue days . To help address , additional 100 million pounds , $ 130 million , made available police forces across England Wales help tackle knife crime , risen fourth consecutive year .
**************Police funding England Wales fell 19 percent 2010-11 2018-19 , National Audit Office says .
**************The extra funding spent additional overtime targeted knife crime new violent crime reduction units , Mr. Hammond said .
**************The announcement falls short 200 300 million pounds , $ 260 million $ 390 million , requested National Police Chief ’ Council last week .
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Sophisticated surveillance , domain world powers , increasingly available private market . Smaller countries seizing tools — sometimes darker purposes .
**************NSO , private company based Herzliya , Israel , hired former government hackers ply trades foreign governments.CreditCreditCorinna Kern The New York Times
**************Supported
**************By Mark Mazzetti , Adam Goldman , Ronen Bergman Nicole Perlroth
**************The man charge Saudi Arabia ’ ruthless campaign stifle dissent went searching ways spy people saw threats kingdom . He knew go : secretive Israeli company offering technology developed former intelligence operatives .
**************It late 2017 Saud al-Qahtani — top adviser Saudi Arabia ’ powerful crown prince — tracking Saudi dissidents around world , part extensive surveillance efforts ultimately led killing journalist Jamal Khashoggi . In messages exchanged employees company , NSO Group , Mr. al-Qahtani spoke grand plans use surveillance tools throughout Middle East Europe , like Turkey Qatar France Britain .
**************The Saudi government ’ reliance firm Israel , adversary decades , offers glimpse new age digital warfare governed rules growing economy , valued $ 12 billion , spies hire .
**************Today even smallest countries buy digital espionage services , enabling conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping influence campaigns preserve major powers like United States Russia . Corporations want scrutinize competitors ’ secrets , wealthy individual beef rival , also command intelligence operations price , akin purchasing off-the-shelf elements National Security Agency Mossad .
**************[ For stories changing nature warfare , sign weekly At War newsletter . ]
**************NSO competitor , Emirati firm DarkMatter , exemplify proliferation privatized spying . A monthslong examination The New York Times , based interviews current former hackers governments private companies others well review documents , uncovered secret skirmishes burgeoning world digital combat .
**************The firms enabled governments hack criminal elements like terrorist groups drug cartels also cases act darker impulses , targeting activists journalists . Hackers trained United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople human rights workers net . Cybermercenaries working DarkMatter turned prosaic household item , baby monitor , spy device .
**************The F.B.I . investigating current former American employees DarkMatter possible cybercrimes , according four people familiar investigation . The inquiry intensified former N.S.A . hacker working company grew concerned activities contacted F.B.I. , Reuters reported .
**************NSO DarkMatter also compete fiercely , paying handsomely lure top hacking talent Israel , United States countries , sometimes pilfering recruits , The Times found .
**************The Middle East epicenter new era privatized spying . Besides DarkMatter NSO , Black Cube , private company run former Mossad Israeli military intelligence operatives gained notoriety Harvey Weinstein , disgraced Hollywood mogul , hired dig dirt accusers . Psy-Group , Israeli company specializing social media manipulation , worked Russian oligarchs 2016 pitched Trump campaign plan build online army bots avatars swing Republican delegate votes .
**************Last year , wealthy American businessman , Elliott Broidy , sued government Qatar New York firm run former C.I.A . officer , Global Risk Advisors , said sophisticated breach company led thousands emails spilling public . Mr. Broidy said operation motivated hard-nosed geopolitics : At beginning Trump administration , pushed White House adopt anti-Qatar policies time firm poised receive hundreds millions dollars contracts United Arab Emirates , archrival Qatar .
**************A judge dismissed Mr. Broidy ’ lawsuit , suspicions grown Qatar hand operations , including hacking leaking emails Yousef al-Otaiba , influential Emirati ambassador Washington .
**************The rapid expansion global high-tech battleground , armies cybermercenaries clash , prompted warnings dangerous chaotic future .
**************“ Even smallest country , low budget , offensive capability , ” initiate online attacks adversaries , said Robert Johnston , founder cybersecurity firm Adlumin key investigator Russia ’ 2016 hacking Democratic National Committee . “ Qatar U.A.E . going , war getting , bloody .
**************“ The barriers entry space getting lower lower . ”
**************Before NSO helped Saudi government track adversaries outside kingdom , helped Mexican government hunt drug kingpins , earned hundreds millions dollars working dozens countries six continents , company consisted two high school friends northern Israel one relatively mundane idea .
**************Using technology developed graduates Intelligence Unit 8200 — Israel ’ equivalent N.S.A.— Shalev Hulio Omri Lavie started company 2008 allowed cellphone firms gain remote access customers ’ devices perform maintenance .
**************Word spread Western spy services , whose operatives spotted opportunity . At time , American European officials warning Apple , Facebook , Google tech giants developing technologies allowed criminals terrorists communicate encrypted channels indecipherable intelligence law enforcement agencies . They called phenomenon “ going dark . ”
**************Mr. Hulio Mr. Lavie offered way circumvent problem hacking end points communications — phones — data decrypted .
**************By 2011 , NSO developed first prototype , mobile surveillance tool company called Pegasus . Like namesake , Greek mythological winged horse , NSO ’ tool could something seemingly impossible : collect vast amounts previously inaccessible data smartphones air without leaving trace — including phone calls , texts , emails , contacts , location data transmitted apps like Facebook , WhatsApp Skype .
**************“ Once companies invade phone , . You ’ carrying around , ” Avi Rosen Kaymera Technologies , Israeli cyberdefense company , said NSO competitors .
**************The company soon first client Pegasus : government Mexico , engaged crackdown drug cartels . By 2013 , NSO installed Pegasus three Mexican agencies , according emails obtained The Times . The emails estimated , altogether , firm sold Mexican government $ 15 million worth hardware software . Mexico paying firm $ 77 million track wide array targets ’ every move swipe phone .
**************NSO products important Mexico ’ war cartels , according four people familiar Mexican government used Pegasus , speaking condition anonymity discuss intelligence matters . Mexican officials credited Pegasus instrumental helping track capture El Chapo , famed drug kingpin convicted last month New York sentenced life maximum-security prison .
**************Soon enough , NSO selling governments throughout world , company claiming clients every continent except Antarctica . NSO products — particularly Pegasus — helped break terrorist cells aided investigations organized crime child abduction , European intelligence law enforcement officials said interviews .
**************NSO ’ first client , Mexican government , also using hacking tools darker purposes — part broader government industry surveillance effort . The government used NSO products track least two dozen journalists , government critics , international investigators looking unsolved disappearance 43 students , even backers soda tax , according Times investigations research Citizen Lab , part University Toronto .
**************Those targets subjected stream harassing text messages contained malware . Some messages warned spouses affairs , others relative passed away . In one case , government officials able infiltrate phone journalist , targeted 16-year-old son ’ .
**************Though NSO says sells services criminal antiterrorism investigations , none Mexicans known targeted suspected criminal terrorism investigations .
**************“ NSO technology helped stop vicious crimes deadly terrorist attacks around world , ” company said statement . “ We tolerate misuse products regularly vet review contracts ensure used anything prevention investigation terrorism crime . ”
**************The company established ethics committee , decides whether sell spyware countries based human rights records reported global organizations like World Bank ’ human capital index , indicators . NSO would sell Turkey , example , poor record human rights , current former employees said .
**************But World Bank index , Turkey ranks higher Mexico Saudi Arabia , NSO clients . A spokesman Israel ’ Ministry Defense , needs authorize contract NSO wins foreign government , declined answer questions company .
**************A lawsuit alleged last year months death , Saudi Arabia used NSO products spy Mr. Khashoggi , Washington Post columnist strangled dismembered October Saudi operatives inside kingdom ’ consulate Istanbul . NSO denies accusation . Several Mr. Khashoggi ’ closest contacts targets NSO hacking tools , Citizen Lab reported . Without access Mr. Khashoggi ’ devices , researchers confirmed whether direct target NSO surveillance .
**************Even cases blatant abuse , NSO continued renew contracts government clients . In 2013 , instance , NSO inked first deal United Arab Emirates . Within year , Emirati government caught installing NSO spyware mobile phone Ahmed Mansoor , prominent human rights activist .
**************After receiving onslaught text messages containing links , Mr. Mansoor — frequent target Emirati surveillance — grew suspicious passed texts security researchers , determined links NSO lures exploited vulnerabilities Apple software take Mr. Mansoor ’ phone . It , researchers said , sophisticated spyware ever uncovered mobile device .
**************The discovery forced Apple release emergency patch . But , Mr. Mansoor already fired job , passport confiscated , car stolen , email hacked , location tracked , bank account emptied $ 140,000 , beaten strangers twice week .
**************“ You start believe every move watched . Your family starts panic , ” said interview arrested 2017 . “ I live . ”
**************Even U.A.E . caught spying Mr. Mansoor , leaked invoices showed NSO continued sell Emiratis millions dollars ’ worth spyware services . As Mr. Mansoor , sentenced 10 years prison damaging national unity held solitary confinement , health deteriorating .
**************A flurry news reports followed countries using NSO products spy citizens , prompting company temporarily rebrand “ Q , ” James Bond ’ gadget guru .
**************Despite bad news coverage , NSO ’ value continued skyrocket .
**************Francisco Partners , private equity firm , purchased 70 percent stake NSO $ 130 million 2013 . Last month , NSO ’ co-founders raised enough money buy back majority stake NSO valuation $ 1 billion . The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed deal — making major investors , including Oregon state employees ’ pension fund Alaska ’ sovereign wealth fund , part owners NSO , according public records .
**************The proliferation companies trying replicate NSO ’ success compete estimated $ 12 billion market so-called lawful intercept spyware set fierce competition hire American , Israeli Russian veterans world ’ sophisticated intelligence agencies — companies poach talent one another .
**************In late 2017 , NSO executives grew concerned spate resignations . Private detectives hired investigate soon found Mediterranean island Cyprus , tailing group former NSO employees — veterans Israel ’ Intelligence Unit 8200 — going back forth work research facility .
**************The building owned company affiliated DarkMatter , Emirati firm quietly hired Israelis develop technologies U.A.E . conduct cyberoperations perceived enemies home abroad .
**************DarkMatter also offices inside gleaming tower highway connecting Abu Dhabi Dubai , building houses U.A.E. ’ Signals Intelligence Agency , Emirates ’ version N.S.A .
**************This accident . DarkMatter effectively arm state worked directly Emirati intelligence operatives numerous missions hacking government ministries Turkey , Qatar Iran spying dissidents inside Emirates .
**************DarkMatter origins another company , American firm called CyberPoint years ago contracts U.A.E . help protect Emirates computer attacks . CyberPoint obtained license American government work Emiratis , necessary step intended regulate export military intelligence services . Many company ’ employees worked highly classified projects N.S.A . American intelligence agencies .
**************But Emiratis outsize ambitions repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees exceed boundaries company ’ American license . CyberPoint rebuffed requests Emirati intelligence operatives try crack encryption codes hack websites housed American servers — operations would run afoul American law .
**************So 2015 Emiratis founded DarkMatter — forming company bound United States law — lured least half-dozen American employees CyberPoint join . Marc Baier , former official N.S.A . unit carries advanced offensive cyberoperations , became one firm ’ top executives .
**************DarkMatter employed several former N.S.A . C.I.A . officers , according roster employees obtained The Times , making salaries hundreds thousands dollars year .
**************“ The assumption used left N.S.A. , ’ never kind offensive work . Now , clearly market , ” said Mr. Johnston , security expert . He worked military ’ Cyber Command , works closely N.S.A. , serving Marines .
**************“ The N.S.A . consider responsibility ensure hacking techniques taught employees used United States , ” said .
**************The company respond request comment , spokesman Emirati government . Asked whether ministry given license former Israeli intelligence operatives working DarkMatter , spokesman Israeli Ministry Defense declined comment . A lawyer Mr. Baier also declined comment .
**************Current former employees spy agency lifelong obligation protect United States ’ secrets , said Greg Julian , spokesman N.S.A . They also required report employment representation foreign governments two years leave agency , said .
**************Besides breaches foreign government ministries , DarkMatter also broke Gmail , Yahoo Hotmail accounts , according former employees . DarkMatter operatives posed family friends people targeted lure opening emails contained malware .
**************Former employees said DarkMatter targeted Mr. Mansoor , hacking child ’ baby monitor eavesdrop family . In another operation , company ’ operatives pursued Rori Donaghy , British activist critical Emirati government human rights record , also target NSO spyware . DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab , Canadian research organization , former employee said .
**************DarkMatter told employees spying American citizens would limits , proved empty pledge .
**************In one operation , previously reported , DarkMatter subsidiary began expansive effort intercept cellular communications Qatar , occasionally catching communications Americans surveillance net late 2015 . One American working project said raised concerns superiors , including former C.I.A . officer charge effort . The American , along another , pulled project asked sign nondisclosure agreement .
**************In repeated instances , DarkMatter collected information Americans , second former employee said . Most cases involved Americans worked foreign organizations — including human rights groups — DarkMatter targeted critical Emirati government , former employee said .
**************DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information , applications résumés belonging Americans applied work organizations . One former employee said collection accidental , records expunged company ’ databases .
**************In 2017 , former N.S.A . hacker began providing F.B.I . agents information company ’ activities , according Reuters report . Foreign Policy first reported F.B.I . investigation .
**************The informant , Lori Stroud , said become concerned company ’ surveillance Americans . She later left firm along several Americans could sure DarkMatter deliberately targeting citizens . Soon , F.B.I . agents began stopping American employees airports entered United States questioned DarkMatter ’ operations , according former company employees .
**************The Justice Department ’ case , run prosecutors Washington , focuses internet fraud possibly illegal transfer spying technology foreign country .
**************But prosecutors face headwinds , including diplomatic concerns jeopardizing United States ’ relationship U.A.E . — influential country developed close ties Trump administration — worries pursuing case could expose embarrassing details extent cooperation DarkMatter American intelligence agencies .
**************And reality American laws governing new age digital warfare murky , outdated , ill-equipped address rapid technological advances . The rules governing American intelligence military personnel provide foreign governments meant keep leash 20th-century warfare — selling missiles planes overseas training foreign forces Army tactics .
**************But address hacking skills honed front laptop , world ’ advanced intelligence agencies , sold highest bidder .
**************“ The worst part weapons easier get , ” said Brian Bartholomew , principal security researcher Kaspersky Lab , digital security company .
**************“ You ’ got lot people entering arena new ’ play rules , ” said . “ It ’ like putting military-grade weapon hands someone street . ”
**************An earlier version article misattributed source valuation market so-called lawful intercept spyware . The $ 12 billion market estimate cited Moody ’ originated company NSO , Moody ’ .
**************Scott Shane contributed reporting .
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Ashley Powers
**************One day 2015 , Barbara Lavender ’ husband returned U.F.O . conference handed business card . It bore red theater-curtain background , vintage microphone gold-and-white lettering read : “ Sean David Morton , Radio Host , Public Speaker , Author , Director , Screen Writer , Actor. ” The polymathic Mr. Morton , Jeff Lavender told wife , U.F.O . royalty .
**************Mr. Morton spent years whisking E.T.-obsessed tourists Area 51 $ 99 pop , leveraged following stints wee-hours conspiracy show “ Coast Coast AM ” — one point , nation ’ No . 3 talk-radio program . He dabbled fringe arts , remote viewing psychic predictions earthquakes , elections stock market . But time Mr . Lavender saw talk Southern California , Mr. Morton shifted something truly fantastical : instant debt relief .
**************He ’ peddling workshop called “ The Sovereign Factor : The Revolution Starts With You ” — nod known sovereign citizens movement . A loose network perhaps tens thousands far-right antigovernment extremists , sovereigns share certain conspiratorial beliefs , sometimes , desire profit government whose legitimacy deny .
**************“ Do realize , ” read Mr. Morton ’ workshop description , “ ALL considered ‘ Incompetent , ’ ‘ Wards State , ’ ‘ Residents ’ ‘ Chattel Property ’ US Federal government , declare Emancipation ? Learn secrets get government back life ! ! ” One secrets called “ bond process. ” By submitting right set papers , Mr. Morton said , could wipe mortgage , tax bills student loans .
**************Mr. Morton ’ message appeal beyond tinfoil-hat crowd . In America Great Recession , plenty people upside-down mortgages student debt inclined believe anyone offering help . Ms . Lavender , listening husband recap workshop , intrigued . Years earlier , ’ borrowed $ 48,000 help son attend college . She husband worked mortgage industry Southern California decades , educational debt unfamiliar terrain . “ I never gone college , ” told recently . “ I took loan I ’ have. ” Ms . Lavender lost job deferred payments , interest kept piling . By time held Mr. Morton ’ business card hands , owed $ 70,000 .
**************She realized U.F.O . gathering unusual venue debt-relief advice . Her husband ’ annual get-togethers “ X-Files ” crowd hobby , good-natured punch line family . But size intractability loan balance weighed ; also , trusted husband , thought Mr. Morton ’ bond process worth checking . She told , “ I think probably enticed might little tiny kick pants government . ”
**************As Lavenders came discover , sovereign fraudsters snake-oil salesmen time . Peddling bouquet grifts varied tax fraud real estate scams , prey suspicion institutions , financial illiteracy , greed despair . You ’ even buy sovereign dogma get swindled . You need , Ms . Lavender , debt . From 1990 2013 , far-right extremists carried 600 financial schemes resulted criminal charges , according researchers run U.S . Extremist Financial Crime Database , affiliated National Consortium Study Terrorism Responses Terrorism clearinghouse kind .
**************That adds — conservatively — public losses $ 1 billion . The majority perpetrators either sovereigns ideological cousins , tax defiers . Fraud cross-burning white supremacists : expression belief .
**************Sovereigns , sometimes call “ freemen ” “ state citizens , ” foundational document , broadly subscribe alternate version American history . The tale vary sovereign sovereign , goes roughly like : At point , corporation secretly usurped United States government , went bankrupt sought aid international bankers . As collateral , corporation offered financiers … us . As sovereigns tell , birth certificate Social Security card benign documents , contracts enslave .
**************There , believe , pathway freedom : Renounce contracts otherwise assert sovereignty . ( Mr. Morton said told Social Security Administration , “ I ’ want number. ” ) Then one — taxman , police — tell . Not sovereigns con men , belief system lends deceit . You might declare “ diplomat ” nonexistent country . ( Mr. Morton represented Republic New Lemuria Dominion Melchizedek . ) Or start fake Native American tribe . Or blow court case American flag courtroom gold fringe . Some sovereigns even lashed violently law enforcement officers , ’ considered domestic terrorism threat .
**************Many sovereign myths hark back creation , 1913 , Federal Reserve . “ It weird , complicated instrument controlling monetary system . People saw sinister , ” author J. M. Berger told . In recent paper , Mr. Berger traced circulation ideas , part , company named Omni Publications , something like Infowars middle 20th century . One Omni title , “ The Federal Reserve Conspiracy , ” claimed “ enemy aliens ” infiltrated banking system , biographies could found “ Who ’ Who American Jewry. ” ( Sovereign lore often rooted anti-Semitism . ) By 1970s , intellectual father sovereign citizen movement , William Potter Gale , helped spread type falsehood larger audience .
**************The founder antigovernment group Posse Comitatus , Mr. Gale aligned emerging movement tax protesters argued , instance , paying taxes form involuntary servitude . In turn , introduced warped version America , patriots establish legal system hang defy . Mr. Gale ’ specific gift wrapping nonsense enough legalese sounded real . “ If movement offers essentially lot magic words say get trouble , ’ going really appeal people desperate angry , ” Mr. Berger said . Mr. Gale ’ outreach success . Over time , line thousands tax protesters Posse members blurred .
**************Take “ redemption ” — theory popularized , part , Gale associate . Remember corporation-slash-fake-government used us collateral ? According sovereign lore , means government set secret accounts names . Some believe contain oddly specific amount $ 630,000 . ( To clear , “ pure fantasy , ” according Internal Revenue Service . )
**************One way sovereigns try make imaginary money real abusing legitimate I.R.S . forms . Law-abiding taxpayers use Form 1099-OID , example , report “ original issue discount ” income . But sovereigns write fake OID income , fake withholding , order claim illegitimate refunds . If file return , risk least large fine . Yet 2012 2014 , according Treasury Inspector General Tax Administration , I.R.S . received close 7,000 sham OID filings .
**************Chronically underfunded understaffed , I.R.S . investigators refer two dozen sovereign-scam cases , average , prosecution year . The agency sometimes misses returns raise suspicion . For example , 2016 , I.R.S . discovered sizable redemption scheme — processing 207 bogus returns disbursing $ 43 million . That ’ another reason strange theories persist , begun leach sovereign network general population : Sometimes , improbably , work .
**************Mr. Morton born 1958 , comfortable childhood Northern California tutorial make sales pitch . His mother , Maureen Kennedy Salaman , — San Francisco magazine described — “ millionaire evangelical alternative-medicine fanatic ” promoted questionable cancer treatments .
**************She also member John Birch Society , far-right group known paranoid anticommunism , stockpiled beans , grains ammunition case Russian invasion . In 1984 , chosen vice-presidential nominee Populist Party , favorite white supremacists . ( Its presidential candidate following cycle former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke . ) In acceptance speech , warned crowd : “ We ’ evil powerful conspiracy world ever known . ”
**************When Mr. Morton reached adulthood , sold unorthodox beliefs behind suburban-dad veneer : flop dark hair , round , clean-shaven face , button-down-and-khakis wardrobe . He charismatic also childlike , friends said , ego easily bruised . He branded investigative reporter within U.F.O . world , 1990s , Mr. Morton appeared “ The Montel Williams Show , ” made outrageous claims — 100 alien species visited Earth ! — certainty Nobel laureate . “ I got close enough one things floating around desert actually get face burned , ” said .
**************Even U.F.O . enthusiasts considered kook , Mr. Morton ’ fans ’ care . The truth — Sean David Morton . Branding prophet , plumbed new-age convention circuit alongside specialists animal telepathy , chakras , hauntings , angelic gemstone messages afterlife . Near end millennium , convention Las Vegas , blue-eyed , reddish-haired woman approached . Back Utah , Melissa Thomson grown Mormon home married 22 ; worked banking , spare time , doted pedigreed cats , even serving treasurer local Cat Fanciers group . The “ Coast Coast ” program escape , spent hours fan-girling Mr. Morton , frequent guest .
**************At Las Vegas convention , Ms. Thomson apparently one goal : meet idol . “ It love first sight , ” Mr. Morton said . She soon left husband joined Mr. Morton Southern California . Her oldest brother , Robert , told , “ The found , warned Melissa decent person . But promised movie roles ; ’ inherit Mommy ’ home Atherton , condo Tahoe . All could see dollars. ” When got married , family refused attend .
**************( Through lawyer , Ms. Morton declined comment . Mr. Morton respond multiple requests comment , although said YouTube last fall The New York Times conducting “ massive smear campaign ” . Unless otherwise noted , quotes article court records . )
**************The Mortons lived Hermosa Beach , surf spot 20 miles downtown Los Angeles . Next mini-palaces , oatmeal-colored apartment building resembled servants ’ quarters , short stroll Pacific Ocean . Mr. Morton welcomed new wife ’ bushy-tailed Norwegian forest cats — new litter arrived , dozen scampered around apartment — turn oversaw administrative side Sean David Morton . He shilled conspiracy fiction ( “ The Dark Prophet — Veil Anti-Christ ” ) ; CDs ( “ Everything You Wanted Know About Future Vol . 2 ” ) ; $ 65 newsletter thousands subscribers ( “ TOMORROW ’ S HEADLINES TODAY ! ” ) .
**************Either ’ particularly lucrative , ’ lucrative enough replicate Mr. Morton ’ childhood wealth . From outside , hard tell . “ He always asking try help something could raise money , ” said Susan Shumsky , fellow fixture new-age circuit . “ Like , ‘ Let ’ trip Peru I money . Let ’ tele-seminar I make money. ’ ” Ms. Morton ’ pedigreed kittens , sold hundreds dollars , apparently kept solvent . At various points , also dog-walked worked Disneyland . Their friend Will Chappell said , “ It leading charge , leading family . She necessary accomplish goals . ”
**************Early relationship , website called UFO Watchdog — “ Exposing Parasites , Delusional Personalities , Morons Frauds Currently Clouding UFO Issue ” — dismantled much Mr. Morton ’ official biography . Mr. Morton sued ; case dismissed . But email included case file , Ms. Morton waved findings : “ I would concerned Sean DIDN ’ T critics . Some greatest people history people attacking every step . It means Sean something right trying make difference world . ”
**************By 2006 , couple expecting windfall . Ms. Salaman poor health ; died , Mr. Morton assumed ’ inherit mother ’ fortune . But relationship , already frosty , iced final weeks . Ms. Salaman ’ even want son wife visit . She cut , even kept $ 100,000 trust Great Dane , Duke .
**************“ They went berserk , ” Ms. Morton ’ brother recalled . “ It ’ scam scam scam . ”
**************While sovereign citizen movement inherently organized , members firmament become known gurus , vectors spreading ideology . Mr. Morton often lectured Living Temple , new age shop south Hermosa Beach . The owner favored black T-shirt five flying saucers admonition “ KEEP LOOKING UP , ” yoga music ommed clutter apothecary bottles , bags herbal something , miracle-cleanse guidebooks crop-circle DVDs .
**************One day , likely 2008 , man named Brandon Adams started showing . Like Mr. Morton , budding sovereign amplifier — much younger untucked button-downs looked like attempt playing dress-up . His family ran local tax-prep business . “ His whole thing banks , ” Mr. Morton said later . “ What considered great criminal conspiracy Internal Revenue Service banking cartels. ” Mr. Morton quickly got speaking slot .
**************Some Mr. Adams ’ talks recorded . Pacing front dozen people , scribbling phrases stick figures whiteboard , wove dark tale . The secret bankruptcy . The people-as-collateral . Then , twist : The banks skimming money — “ fractionalizing ” — every transaction make . He told group could reclaim funds via Form 1099-OID .
**************From folding chair , Mr. Morton — looking grayer rounder “ Montel Williams ” days — asked Mr. Adams anyone really gotten big refund way . Yes , Mr. Adams said . “ The funny thing , watch quiet people start get ’ sure process start getting returns. ” Laughter . “ They ’ got mentality : ‘ I ’ going say I got two hundred fifty grand . ’ ”
**************The audience lapped . This America financial crisis : The banks bailed , homeowners , era Tea Party rallies Occupy Wall Street encampments imminent . It ’ much leap suspect Washington cahoots likes J.P. Morgan . Mr. Adams ’ Living Temple talks drew large enough crowds moved bigger venue sold private coaching $ 200 hour . “ It became movement , really , ” Mr. Morton said . ( Mr. Adams respond multiple requests comment . )
**************In spring 2009 , Mr. Adams ’ tutelage , Mortons tried OID scheme . Mr. Morton filed four years returns — 2005 2008 — claimed nearly $ 4 million refunds . His wife filed 2007 return claimed $ 12,000 . “ I never , ever , ever thought I breaking law , ” Mr. Morton later said . “ I thought law. ” His faith bolstered , April , got refund one returns : direct deposit Washington Mutual account $ 480,322.55 .
**************In 2010 , Securities Exchange Commission went Mortons different scheme — one connection sovereign ideology . Mr. Morton used unconventional celebrity years earlier begin investment club , would channel psychic powers predicting foreign currency markets . It ’ risky type trading , Mr. Morton bragged forecasts accurate even Henry Paulson , Treasury secretary , relied .
**************After hearing Mr. Morton promote fund “ Coast Coast , ” man Washington State invested $ 217,000 . An elderly New York woman parted $ 20,000 . “ He ’ promising stars , ” recalled Tim Saunders , Alaska electrician poured life savings $ 135,000 . “ Yeah , greed came , I felt I needed , quickly. ” In , 100 people invested $ 6 million . Mr. Morton sank half foreign-currency trading — nearly lost . At least $ 240,000 funneled nonprofit Mortons set , authorities ’ know rest . In 2013 , S.E.C . $ 11.5 million judgment . ( Ms. Morton relief defendant , meaning accused profiting scheme . )
**************The Mortons filed bankruptcy , repeatedly misled government — instance , claimed bank accounts . A court eventually denied discharge , meaning ’ get rid debt . They also tossed beach-adjacent apartment . “ Bottom line , ” Ms. Morton told bankruptcy trustee one day , “ I want able get decent job , nice place live , pay taxes , life back . ”
**************It around time Mortons turned hawking debt-erasing sovereign scheme known “ bond process. ” Over two years , helped people around country send nearly two dozen fake bonds I.R.S. , Quicken Loans , PennyMac , Bank America , Chase Bank treasurer ’ office Contra Costa County , California . Early 2015 , Barbara Lavender , woman whose husband met Mr. Morton U.F.O . conference , gave call .
**************Ms . Lavender 61 front-desk clerk adult school . When I met last year Hemet , Calif. , nearly 90 parched miles east Los Angeles , ranch-style home trimmed red Christmas lights . We chatted kitchen table , 14-year-old dog , Remy , curled feet . She explained spoke Mr. Morton phone , avoided talking sovereign ideology . Instead , said could purchase portion bond held — almost magically make educational loan disappear .
**************To wipe $ 70,000 balance , suggested Ms . Lavender send $ 2,500 , less 4 percent owed . She husband believed Mr. Morton discovered sort workaround rich people find . “ You know , ” testified later . “ You hear time : ‘ wealthy tax loopholes , ’ kind thing . ”
**************The bond looked authentically bureaucratic , formal scalloped border . It really certificate paper Office Depot . The accompanying paperwork said student loan company entitled paid back fund , reality , United States taps help stabilize foreign currencies . Mr. Morton said warned Ms . Lavender : “ Look , I ’ know going work . I ’ lawyer. ” He added , “ It ’ going depend whether accept . ”
**************A month Mortons mailed bond package , Ms . Lavender checked educational loan balance , saw ’ budged wrote Ms. Morton email . She ’ get response . Ms . Lavender sent follow-up follow-up . “ This beginning feel increasingly like scam , ” wrote October , “ bilked hard-earned money spare . ”
**************Ms. Morton finally replied said ’ recovering knee surgery . Ms . Lavender sent almost apologetic response . Her attention elsewhere — husband died suddenly brain mass . “ Once hear Sean , let know thinks next ? ” wrote . “ With husband gone , debt even greater burden main breadwinner . ”
**************Nothing came exchange . That winter , two men jackets showed Ms. Lavender ’ home questioned Mortons , bond process , outcome . Afterward , Ms . Lavender took one business cards nephew , works local sheriff ’ office . Yes , reassured . They really I.R.S .
**************On Jan. 31 , 2016 , nearly 200-foot-tall , white-and-blue cruise ship called Ruby Princess docked Port Los Angeles . About 100 guests board paid $ 3,000 marketed Conspira-Sea Cruise — weeklong jaunt Mexican waters American paranoia , “ Vaccinations : Do You Really Know What ’ Coming Through That Needle ? ” “ Conspiracy Steal Your Body Soul. ” As Mortons prepared disembark , arrested federal agents .
**************After years digging I.R.S . investigators , Mortons faced suite charges related tax filings fake bonds . Once Ruby Princess , Mr. Morton led workshop called “ From Fascism Freedom , ” separated , patted asked medications took . Mr. Morton said ask Melissa . An agent . “ Cyanide , ” said , seething . On way jail , added , “ Do favor tell Sean : ‘ Thank I ’ see next life . ’ ”
**************Their trial began Tax Day , 2017 . The prosecution told simple story greed . “ I submit I.R.S . slot machine , ” one prosecutor , Valerie Makarewicz , said . “ Keep hitting spin . Keep playing hit jackpot. ” The day Mortons got $ 480,322.55 refund , said , went bank drained nearly account . Once I.R.S . realized mistake tried recoup money , Mortons filed two rounds bogus returns set fake bonds .
**************Ms. Morton ’ lawyer presented good-faith defense . She thrall sovereign gurus , said , “ people kind strutted back forth stage answer everything. ” He showed jury 37 pages perfect-cursive notes Ms. Morton took Brandon Adams lecture . “ In courtroom , ’ obviously nonsense . But time , people believed , Melissa Morton believed . ”
**************Mr. Morton represented . “ I ’ rapist , thug , war criminal , ” said opening statement . “ I ’ run Nazi concentration camp murder millions children . ”
**************Serving lawyer also meant cross-examined witnesses . “ Are familiar bankruptcy United States 1933 ? ” asked government ’ fraud expert . It reference sovereign conspiracy theory .
**************“ No , ” witness said . “ I ’ . ”
**************During closing argument , trial ’ fourth day , Mr. Morton told jury Norwegian forest cats . Earlier week , said , wife tried save premature kitten . They stayed late , swaddled cloth , fed milk eye dropper . The kitten died anyway . Ask , implored jurors , “ Do send nice people care kittens raise cats jail forever ? ” The panel deliberated two hours . When returned , Ms. Morton greeted hopeful smile . The verdict : guilty counts . She fainted .
**************Around time , prominent sovereigns facing reckoning . A court permanently barred Mr. Adams preparing tax returns promoting OID scheme ; ended prison peddling fake money orders . Another guru Conspira-Sea Cruise named Winston Shrout ( workshop : “ Conspiracy Court System ” ) awaiting trial Oregon .
**************Mr. Morton ’ sentencing set June . But 11 a.m. hearing started , ’ show .
**************Agents spotted afternoon outside Domino ’ Hermosa Beach , gray hood sunglasses shrouding much face . He hopped white Ford Escape headed south . The next morning , tweeted plea donations : “ Melissa ( cats ) need help relocating . ”
**************Two months passed . Mr. Morton resurfaced via video friend ’ online talk show , “ Project Camelot ” ( “ Getting Truth Out One Whistleblower Time ” ) . His hair mussed , ’ startled awake , wore headset , black V-neck dark-rimmed glasses took .
**************His version “ hello ” ripping judge prosecutors “ biggest gang criminals ’ ever going see. ” Soon , turned attention impending solar eclipse . “ This one biggest turning points American history ! ” said . The video clocked 40,000 views . It vintage Sean David Morton , say impossible tell , anything , believed .
**************I asked Will Chappell , known Mortons decade , whether actual sovereign dogmatists . He said , “ She definitely believed story Sean telling . I believe Sean believed story telling . A little bit , I believed it. ” And , convictions ? “ Melissa , course , knowing knew , would gone long time ago . I think Sean would still done . He still thinks missed step . ”
**************The solar eclipse took place August , week Mr. Morton ’ on-the-lam interview . Though Ms. Morton promised court would contact fugitive husband , couple rendezvoused hotel outside Palm Springs . That morning , moon briefly blotted sun , Mr. Morton lounging poolside swim trunks , purple mountains arrayed , eclipse glasses side . An I.R.S . agent walked . It .
**************At sentencing , Ms. Morton distanced . “ I living embodiment ‘ love blind , ’ ” wrote judge . “ If I ever questioned teachings processes others , I told , I question others far smarter I ? There thousands attendees workshops seminars . It convincing , well-organized believable . How could thousands people wrong ? ” She sentenced two years prison filed appeal . Behind bars , passed time taking classes — résumé-writing , watercolor-painting , embroidery — watching Food Network ; recently transferred halfway house . Emails posted Project Camelot site suggest husband still touch .
**************Mr. Morton sentenced six years prison . He ’ representing appeal , court papers argued ’ “ improperly profiled ” “ terrorist sovereign citizen. ” On Project Camelot , ’ unrepentant — even sharing pardon request said sent President Trump .
**************“ It ’ work RADIO TV INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM DEEP STATE forces within D.O.J . put wife I prison YEARS ! ” wrote . Of course , suggestion correct injustice : donate PayPal account .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Raphael Minder
**************MADRID — The simmering conflict Catalan independence roared back center Spanish attention Tuesday , 12 people went trial roles botched secession attempt 2017 , Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez scrambled keep issue toppling government .
**************The eagerly anticipated trial Spanish Supreme Court Madrid drawn enormous attention broadcast live national television , could soon overshadowed political crisis unfolding blocks away , Parliament .
**************On Wednesday , Mr. Sánchez ’ minority Socialist government faces crucial parliamentary vote national budget . If majority lawmakers reject , including Catalan lawmakers far backed prime minister , almost certainly forced call elections .
**************With Spain ’ government hanging balance , Supreme Court intense pressure demonstrate remain impartial politics case ignited passions recriminations . The Catalan separatist leaders indicted charges include rebellion , holding independence referendum declaring independence October 2017 — moves Spanish courts ruled unconstitutional .
**************The secessionist conflict split Catalan society , also helped reshape Spain ’ politics . Mr. Sánchez came office unexpectedly June , winning vote no-confidence previous conservative government , backing Basque Catalan nationalist lawmakers .
**************To stay office , needs maintain support separatist parties governed Catalonia , wealthy northeastern region Spain , since 2015 . But Quim Torra , leader regional government , insisted party would back national budget unless Mr. Sánchez agreed consider another independence referendum , prime minister refused .
**************On Tuesday , María Jesús Montero , Spain ’ budget minister , told lawmakers trial conflict Catalonia “ polarized ” debate budget , insisted “ government cede blackmail ” separatist lawmakers .
**************“ We always betting political dialogue within constitutional framework , make clear framework — nothing outside constitutional order , ” said .
**************Mr. Sánchez ’ attempt renew political dialogue separatists recently labeled treason leader Spain ’ conservative party , Pablo Casado .
**************Almost every aspect criminal case subject intense political feuding , location trial — Madrid rather Barcelona — decision Spain ’ judiciary deny bail defendants keep prison since late 2017 .
**************The defendants ’ supporters see conditions reinforcing independence movement ’ complaints oppressive central government . Opponents secessionism , hand , hope prison sentences Catalan leaders deter illegal attempts break Spain .
**************Within main chamber frescoed Supreme Court building , built 18th century , panel seven justices 12 defendants listened opening arguments Tuesday . Oriol Junqueras , former deputy leader Catalonia , occupied frontbench .
**************Andreu Van den Eynde , lawyer Mr. Junqueras opened proceedings , cast case matter free expression , right protest right vote .
**************“ We make political defense , defend human values rights , ” Mr. Van den Eynde said . The defendants , argued , already faced legal proceeding “ every constitutional right restricted . ”
**************A handful indicted politicians missing trial , however , including Carles Puigdemont , former leader Catalonia , fled Brussels successfully resisted Spain ’ attempts extradite .
**************Outside Supreme Court building , television crews heavy police surveillance jostled space ; 600 journalists accredited cover trial .
**************In surrounding streets , protesters , carried Spanish flags , denounced Mr. Sánchez handling Catalan conflict called ouster — small echo anti-government demonstration drew tens thousands people Sunday .
**************“ I rely judges politicians ’ done put end attempt destroy Spain , ” said Santiago Pulido , house painter , held sign drawing two defendants devil ’ horns .
**************Some defendants face 25 years prison found guilty , sentences “ much heavier , ” Mr. Pulido said . “ They responsible dividing Spanish people making people fight within country — I think serious crime . ”
**************The trial expected last least three months . But budgetary defeat Wednesday could force Mr. Sánchez call elections summer , means could take place verdicts made public .
**************Opposition politicians want Mr. Sánchez hold general election May 26 , Spain already hold municipal regional elections , well votes European Parliament .
**************Speaking outside courtroom , Mr. Van den Eynde , defense lawyer , said trial views already politicized could influenced snap election .
**************“ We ’ trying stay focused trial , ” said , “ know politics change , everything change . ”
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Paul Mozur Austin Ramzy
**************HONG KONG — The Chinese electronics giant Huawei sued United States government Wednesday , arguing unfairly incorrectly banned security threat .
**************The lawsuit force government make case company public , could also leave Huawei vulnerable deeper scrutiny business practices relationship Chinese government .
**************The United States argued Huawei poses risk equipment could used Chinese authorities spy communications disrupt telecommunications networks . That position led major wireless carriers United States avoid Huawei ’ equipment .
**************Huawei denies allegations says lawsuit meant prove engage practices . The company ’ plans file lawsuit first reported Monday The New York Times .
**************“ The U.S. Congress repeatedly failed produce evidence support restrictions Huawei products , ” Guo Ping , Huawei ’ rotating chairman , said statement announcing filing lawsuit . “ We compelled take legal action proper last resort . ”
**************The lawsuit , filed United States District Court Plano , Tex. , Huawei American headquarters , argues part 2019 National Defense Authorization Act unconstitutional singles Huawei . The act bans government agencies contracting Huawei companies use company ’ equipment .
**************Huawei , China ’ biggest maker telecommunications equipment , pressure months United States authorities . Now , ’ striking back . The suit part markedly aggressive legal public relations offensive Huawei recently mounted push back spying accusations .
**************During news briefing broadcast official Huawei feed Twitter , Mr. Guo pulled punches .
**************“ The U.S. government long branded Huawei threat , hacked service stolen emails source code , ” said , referring National Security Agency documents provided former contractor Edward J. Snowden showed agency pried way Huawei ’ systems .
**************“ Still , U.S. government sparing effort smear company mislead public Huawei , ” added . The briefing , streamed Twitter — American internet platform blocked China — reached two million people .
**************In December , Meng Wanzhou , daughter Huawei ’ founder chief financial officer company , detained Canada behest United States , seeking extradite .
**************Her father , Ren Zhengfei , company ’ founder , since rejected claims daughter said would wait see President Trump would intervene case . Ms. Meng court week Vancouver , British Columbia , part extradition hearing .
**************In meantime , Huawei battled many customers nations said would pull back buying products . China also retaliated Canada detaining several Canadian citizens . This week , Canadian officials also complained China begun suspend import canola country .
**************Lu Kang , spokesman China ’ Ministry Foreign Affairs , said Thursday Chinese decision based discovery pests Canadian canola .
**************China long history interrupting trade countries middle diplomatic spats . In September 2010 , China halted export rare earth metals Japan two months dispute sovereignty cluster tiny islands Japan Taiwan . Weeks later , China suspended trade talks Norway halted import Norwegian salmon Nobel Peace Prize awarded Chinese dissident Norwegian committee .
**************Huawei ’ lawsuit argues singling company , Congress violated constitutional principles separation powers also bill attainder clause , prohibits legislation singles person entity punishment without trial .
**************“ The actual intended effect prohibitions bar Huawei significant segments U.S. market telecommunications equipment services , thereby inflicting immediate ongoing economic , competitive , reputational harms Huawei , ” company ’ lawyers wrote suit .
**************They added prohibitions carried without “ fair hearing opportunity rebut allegations , without opportunity escape . ”
**************The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab filed , ultimately lost , similar legal challenge two years ago . After Department Homeland Security directed federal agencies ban Kaspersky products systems , Congress codified directive law .
**************Kaspersky filed two lawsuits arguing singled punishment without trial . A judge ultimately dismissed lawsuits , pointing came legitimate desire protect American networks .
**************The Justice Department filed criminal charges Huawei January , cases focus company ’ connections evading American sanctions Iran theft intellectual property . Neither relates core question faced governments around world whether using Huawei ’ equipment new 5G networks causes security concerns .
**************The new lawsuit seeks focus question , push United States government make case . While Huawei unlikely reverse American opposition company , may hope win government officials countries , including Europe , probably following American lawsuit closely .
**************Debate security Huawei ’ systems come critical moment , countries around world preparing spend hundreds billions dollars expanding cellular networks next generation 5G technology .
**************The new networks faster speeds , also used connect bewildering number new sensors data-collection systems alongside smartphones . That would make vulnerabilities networks potentially serious cellular networks past .
**************Mr. Lu , Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman , expressed support Huawei ’ legal action .
**************“ We believe perfectly justified fully understandable companies safeguard legitimate rights interests legal means , ” said .
**************Many Chinese expressed support social media Huawei ’ legal stand United States . Some others noted sarcasm difficulties similar legal recourse companies individuals within China ’ system .
**************“ So sue government ? ” wrote one user Weibo , Chinese social media service . “ Interesting . All sudden I ’ thinking , actually I ’ dare think it. ” .
**************Keith Bradsher contributed reporting Shanghai . Zoe Mou contributed research Beijing , Qiqing Lin Shanghai .
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Associated Press
**************MOGADISHU , Somalia — Gunmen Islamist militant group stormed government building Somalia ’ capital , Mogadishu , suicide car bombing Saturday , killing least five people , including country ’ deputy labor minister , police said .
**************Somali security forces fought hourslong gun battle least five assailants retake control building , houses ministries labor works , police officer , Capt . Mohamed Hussein , said .
**************The Reuters news agency , citing police sources , put death toll end battle 15 .
**************Saqar Ibrahim Abdalla , Somalia ’ deputy minister labor social affairs , killed ground-floor office shortly gunmen stormed building , Captain Hussein said .
**************Saturday working day Somalia , dozens people believed building time attack .
**************The Shabab claimed responsibility attack building , far headquarters Somali intelligence agency . As attack unfolded , gunfire could heard building . White smoke billowed scene , witnesses said .
**************A similar attack targeting busy area Mogadishu February killed least 24 people . That attack also began pair car bombs exploding popular area Mogadishu Somalis relaxing restaurants .
**************The Shabab , links Al Qaeda , frequently carry suicide bombings targeting public places , hotels government offices . They Africa ’ active Islamist militant group , fighting years take power create Islamic state Somalia .
**************The group continues mount lethal attacks despite pushed Mogadishu , part African Union peacekeepers . It mostly operates rural areas country ’ south .
**************The group carried many deadly attacks neighboring Kenya retaliation Kenya ’ deployment 2011 peacekeepers Somalia .
**************The United States military carried number deadly airstrikes recent months Shabab .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************France Dispatch
**************By Adam Nossiter
**************BAYONNE , France — The government Paris disapproves . But local mayor ’ care . He says continue sheltering Africans crossing Spanish border France .
**************For Jean-René Etchegaray , mayor Bayonne , quiet refined city French Basque Country , 22 miles border , matter necessity humanitarian obligation .
**************Since Italy closed borders migrants France tried close border migrants coming Italy , Spain become prime gateway Europe migrants Africa , 57,000 arriving last year .
**************Many crossing France transiting Bayonne , place “ everything reasonable , ” Stendhal wrote mid-19th century .
**************But Mr. Etchegaray sees reasonable stance put war government President Emmanuel Macron , even mayor become case study front-line management Europe ’ migration crisis contradictions .
**************The mayor ’ necessarily want young men , predominantly French-speaking West African countries like Guinea , Mali Ivory Coast , hanging around forever . He also ’ want camping streets tall , old , half-timbered Basque houses nestled along slow-moving rivers .
**************But wants migrants exist , city , “ condition dignity , ” put . “ I ’ think I less , ” said .
**************So Mr. Etchegaray took young men streets , requisitioned old military barracks near train station , put camp beds , brought hot meals keeps place heated .
**************The young men greet warmly shows , several times day .
**************“ Good man , ” said one temporary guests , Abdul Sylla , 29-year-old Guinea harbors vague hopes studying . “ Close people . ”
**************Official France keeps wagging finger city ’ mayor .
**************It “ absolutely question ” state “ would give slightest aid ” mayor ’ shelter , Gilbert Payet , recently Mr. Macron ’ regional representative Interior Ministry , testily told local reporters last month .
**************The mayor unfazed .
**************“ I saw frontiers closing , far I ’ concerned , fundamental rights ’ trampled , ” Mr. Etchegaray said , evoking Bayonne ’ heritage refuge Jews fleeing Spanish Inquisition birthplace great Jewish jurist René Cassin , helped draft Universal Declaration Human Rights .
**************The French state ’ attitude toward mayor illustrates Mr. Macron ’ ambiguities subject migration .
**************germany
**************200 miles
**************Paris
**************switz .
**************France
**************Atlantic
**************Ocean
**************italy
**************Mediterranean Sea
**************spain
**************30 miles
**************Bayonne
**************Bay Biscay
**************france
**************Irun
**************basque country
**************spain
**************By The New York Times
**************On one hand , exalted France ’ humanitarian traditions asked police treat migrants fairness .
**************On , government refused admission migrant ships , put migrant rights advocates trial boasted many foreigners expelled turned back frontiers .
**************The Italians angrily accused French hypocrisy , Mr. Etchegaray used word .
**************“ The prefect said , ‘ No , , , , , ! ’ ” recalled Maïté Etcheverry , young volunteer runs shelter Bayonne .
**************But mayor merely carried — distributing blankets ; inquiring migrants ’ well-being ; paying center budget local agglomeration towns runs .
**************“ They said , ‘ You ’ going create pull factor even migrants , ’ ” Mr. Etchegaray said laugh interview office past week .
**************“ They said , ‘ You ’ going create another Calais , ’ ” said , referring squalid encampments northern France , since demolished , thousands migrants waited mud , cold misery , hoping get England .
**************So far , ’ turned way .
**************“ I ’ feel I ’ anything contrary law , ” Mr. Etchegaray said mildly .
**************“ Look , I ’ kind radical crazy person , ” continued , noting migrants stay days move .
**************He even moved bus stop low-cost travel services front shelter , make easier migrants leave . And went war bus company drivers demanding , illegally , Africans produce identity papers .
**************“ We squatters France supported City Hall , ” Ms. Etcheverry said , grinning .
**************“ That mayor , ’ deep prefect , visibly interior minister , ” said Ms. Etcheverry , law student . “ It ’ really kind extraordinary . ”
**************A self-described “ radical pro-Basque independence leftist , ” found political opposition 66-year-old center-right mayor . Not time .
**************The migrants come go center day , often arriving inconspicuous cars traffickers . The local police say seedy district around train station nearby Spanish border city Irún become hive trafficking .
**************One recent day , group six young African men backpacks hurried single file across plaza Irún flight stairs .
**************They bundled waiting car quickly drove . Watching plaza several spotters talking furtively phones . All happened right noses group Spanish police officers 20 yards away stir .
**************French Spanish officers wait opposite sides bridge crossing river separates Spain France corner . The border open , unless migrant — case might get stopped , checked sent back .
**************If migrants make shelter Bayonne , however , temporary refuge .
**************The local police enter courtyard converted shelter , long , low hall staffed volunteers stocked donations food clothing . The young men staying play scrabble lie quietly camp beds , grateful worst seems behind .
**************“ I never want see sea , ” said Ibrahima Doumbia , young Guinean crossed Mediterranean boat . “ I fright life . ”
**************With arrival cold weather fall , knew growing migrant population Bayonne could longer stay one city ’ main squares , people camping .
**************“ It cold raining , ’ ’ Mr. Etchegaray said . ‘ ‘ We ’ leave anymore . They cold , sick hungry . ”
**************The mayor formed plans initiative quickly . “ He came directly square , ” Ms. Etcheverry recalled , adding remembered saying , “ I ’ back half-hour . ”
**************When returned , led volunteers migrants underground parking lot municipal police — temporary solution something better could found .
**************“ He accompanied , showed toilets , ’ ’ Ms. Etcheverry recounted . “ He saw quiet , young people helping young people . But never imagined would end like , center financed municipality . ”
**************It mayor ’ duty , Mr. Etchegaray said .
**************“ The state ’ want know , ” added . “ But , I ’ got know . And emergency . ”
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************Bits
**************By Jamie Condliffe
**************Hi . I ’ Jamie Condliffe . Greetings London . Here ’ look week ’ tech news .
**************There little fashionable 2019 desire curb Big Tech ’ power . But knowing far regulators go putting limits Silicon Valley ’ largest companies ’ straightforward .
**************At one extreme , calls break Big Tech . Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines week called . Ms. Warren , Massachusetts Democrat , argued companies ’ offer products platforms controlled ( like Apple ’ selling apps App Store — something Spotify called European regulators Wednesday ) . She also said would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions , Facebook ’ takeovers Instagram WhatsApp .
**************Her pitch ’ perfect , The New York Times ’ Kevin Roose pointed — ’ generic , misses easy wins overlooks big issues . But bold , inspiring rally cry Big Tech ’ biggest critics .
**************At end spectrum : tech companies . Ideally , likes Facebook Google would love perpetually operate lightly regulated world helped grow quickly . But even Mark Zuckerberg , Facebook ’ chief executive , acknowledged “ inevitable regulation ” testified House Energy Commerce Committee April .
**************There ’ plenty room extremes . Take , example , report published Wednesday British government , called overhaul antitrust policies Big Tech . Its main proposal : new regulator identify companies “ strategic market status , ” block activities — promoting products services search results belonging competitors ( hello , Google ! ) .
**************That , report ’ authors say , “ pro-business pro-consumer solution ” “ changing antitrust law drive breakup ” businesses .
**************So ’ right ? Mr. Zuckerberg , least says regulatory intervention inevitable . There ’ strong bipartisan support regulation . As line drawn , ’ harder say .
**************Breaking big companies ’ easy : It ’ expensive takes long time . And ’ always go plan . The last notable attempt , judge ruled two decades ago Microsoft cleaved violated antitrust law , overturned appeal . So Ms. Warren could work cut .
**************But may ultimately become question balancing ambition need . Is better gamble breaking big companies , guarantee new rules curb behavior ? That ’ something lawmakers going wrestle .
**************When OpenAI founded three years ago , huge goal : build artificial intelligence software capable human brain . Its founders said nonprofit noble ambitions — $ 1 billion funding backers pay way — public could trust build so-called general artificial intelligence .
**************Only , $ 1 billion ’ go far goals like . Huge computing resources big salaries attract talent burn cash . Actually , turns , profits might useful .
**************So , Wired reported , Open AI announced changing business model . To keep Facebook Google , created OpenAI L.P. , company take money investors need return profit , like venture funds . That make easier raise funds . Down line , might monetize technology develops . But company decided cap returns investors see — $ 100 every dollar invested .
**************One way think figure OpenAI deems 100-times return ethical margin building general A.I . — enough make feasible endeavor , much tar Big Tech brush . That reasoning clearly holds inhabit Silicon Valley . But interesting see profit cap enough put everyone ease .
**************On March 12 , 1989 , Tim Berners-Lee proposed idea linking digital files boss , Mike Sendall , called “ vague exciting. ” It ultimately became World Wide Web , 30 years later ’ left much love — hate — existence .
**************At event London ’ Science Museum Tuesday mark web ’ passage fourth decade , Mr. Berners-Lee asked might look like another 30 years . Here ’ said :
**************■ “ It ’ , I think , us try guess . ”
**************■ “ Look ’ happened last 30 years . The web changed really dramatically , lot ’ predicted . ”
**************■ “ What say web want . ”
**************■ “ We want web open . We want web royalty-free . We want web discrimination-free . ”
**************Worthy goals . And article wrote past week , Mr. Berners-Lee laid steps may required ensure happen :
**************■ “ Governments must translate laws regulations digital age . They must ensure markets remain competitive , innovative open . ”
**************■ “ Companies must ensure pursuit short-term profit expense human rights , democracy , scientific fact public safety . ”
**************■ “ Platforms products must designed privacy , diversity security mind . “
**************■ “ And important , citizens must hold companies governments accountable . ”
**************Thirty years , Mr. Sendall ’ analysis might apply equally well proposal , .
**************Elon Musk really dislikes whistle-blowers . According Businessweek , Mr. Musk , Tesla chief executive , set destroy one employee leaked details raw materials wastage company .
**************How Google pay executives accused misconduct ? Handsomely : Two shared total $ 135 million , according details emerged lawsuit week .
**************Who fund next wave tech start-ups ? That ’ millionaires created companies like Airbnb Uber go public .
**************You care TikTok . You might never use , could reshape social media know .
**************Scientists dropped smartphone blender . Because , apparently , best way work much cobalt , gold substances .
**************How disappear ( almost ) completely : A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps going dark staying online .
**************Silicon Valley wants build monument . To Silicon Valley , obviously .
**************Jamie Condliffe editor DealBook newsletter . He also writes weekly Bits newsletter . Follow Twitter : @ jme_c .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Vivian Yee Hwaida Saad
**************BEIRUT , Lebanon — Lebanon ’ newly formed government , gives Islamist movement Hezbollah key ministries , raised concerns country could run afoul sanctions United States prohibit material support Iran-backed group .
**************On Friday , United States warned Hezbollah propping agenda new position , includes key posts Lebanon ’ government , including Ministry Health .
**************American officials concerned Hezbollah use ministry provide state-subsidized health care patronage jobs supporters possibly even fighters , helping endure punishing American sanctions made difficult group offer usual social services Shiite Muslim base .
**************“ We call new government ensure resources services ministries provide support Hezbollah , ” said State Department spokesman , Robert Palladino .
**************As new cabinet coalesced Thursday nearly nine months political deadlock , assistant United States Treasury secretary terrorist financing , Marshall Billingslea , warned Hezbollah tried “ exploit ministries funnel money undertake activities support terrorist agenda , significant concerns . ”
**************Hezbollah expected gain strength government group allies expanded share seats Lebanon ’ parliamentary elections last May , significantly weakening Western-backed prime minister , Saad Hariri , bloc . Now control Health Ministry , fourth-largest budget government , ability embed Lebanese state institutions made bigger target elusive prey United States , designated terrorist group .
**************Lebanon ’ political system awards posts patronage spoils politicians different religious affiliations order maintain balance among country ’ 18 officially recognized religious sects . There long history ministers stripes using Health Ministry provide free subsidized health care supporters . Analysts believe Hezbollah may try , whether Shiite base , troublingly United States , Hezbollah fighters wounded Syrian civil war next door .
**************“ This yet another example Hezbollah openly holding Lebanon ’ security prosperity hostage , ” said Rachel Mikeska , spokeswoman American Embassy Lebanon . She added United States “ prepared take whatever actions necessary protect interests Lebanese people . ”
**************She declined say actions might . But analysts said possibilities ranged relatively restrained — reducing funding Health Ministry squeezing international donors , like World Health Organization , — dire . The United States could theoretically impose sanctions Lebanese hospitals , preventing export American medications Lebanon , cut American military aid Lebanese Army .
**************It unclear Hezbollah might Health Ministry Trump administration would consider violation sanctions law President Trump signed October . Analysts said Hezbollah may chosen Dr. Jamil Jabak , 63-year-old internist close ties Hezbollah , health minister try avoid direct sanctions ministry . Dr. Jabak member Hezbollah , said served personal physician group ’ leader .
**************“ Would Washington consider free health care Hezbollah members provided Health Ministry example ‘ significant financial support ? ’ ” wrote Michael Young , political observer journalist Carnegie Middle East Center Beirut , opinion column last year . “ It ’ difficult say would never . ”
**************The United States ’ various interests Lebanon often end conflict , including comes Hezbollah : It wants counter Iran proxies , also maintain Lebanon ’ stability war Syria continues burn ; also wants battle terrorism push back Russian influence Middle East .
**************Though Washington designated Hezbollah terrorist organization actions around world close relationship Iran , group also baked legitimate parts Lebanese state , making difficult United States target without also affecting rest country .
**************“ The debate U.S. Lebanon always prioritize balance competing priorities , ” said Firas Maksad , director Arabia Foundation , Washington-based think tank leans toward pro-Saudi Arabia anti-Iran policies .
**************On one side debate anti-Iran hard-liners , argue “ Iran Mediterranean , Hezbollah uses Lebanese political elite Lebanese government thin veil political cover , ” Mr. Maksad said .
**************Those voices , include Republicans Congress members Trump administration , may push cutting aid Lebanese Army — significant source support armed forces — well Health Ministry .
**************Opposing hawkish views , including much traditional foreign policy establishment , prefer measured response .
**************Given Lebanon ’ floundering economy political instability , Mr. Maksad said , “ ’ want whole place come down. ” ( The prospect economic collapse greatly increased pressure country ’ political factions strike power-sharing agreement . )
**************They also argue reducing military aid would leave room Russia , expanded influence across Middle East , make inroads Lebanon .
**************In general , sanctions financial tools come primary stick used United States Iran regional partners . On trip Beirut last week , Mr. Billingslea urged Lebanese officials exclude Hezbollah involvement country ’ banking financial sectors , called reforms would allow Lebanese authorities block freeze accounts associated group .
**************But Hezbollah continues expand influence Lebanese institutions , sanctions may prove overly blunt tool , hitting legitimate government services civilians addition party .
**************In past , Hezbollah played smaller role government , “ could easily separate Hezbollah state institutions , ” said Hanin Ghaddar , Lebanese-American analyst Washington Institute Near East Policy frequent critic Hezbollah .
**************Now , Hezbollah commanding broad swath government , asked , “ How keep stability Lebanese institutions going Hezbollah everything ? ”
**************But Kassem Qassir , Lebanese political analyst close Hezbollah , said concerns Hezbollah ’ dominance overblown .
**************“ Nobody sole control Lebanon , neither Hezbollah anybody else , ” said . “ Lebanon diverse country . ”
**************In televised interview Saturday , Hassan Nasrallah , organization ’ secretary general , said group intend meddle Lebanon ’ balance power .
**************But Mr. Maksad noted Hezbollah managed forge pacts Christian Sunni politicians well Shiite ones , held formation new government prime minister , Sunni , agreed allow Hezbollah ’ Sunni allies cabinet — unmistakable mark strength .
**************Of new faces 30-seat cabinet , Dr. Jabak , physician leading ministry closely watched West , attracted immediate attention .
**************“ I ’ belong political party , ” said radio interview Friday .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Julia Jacobs
**************Forty years ago , C-Span went live first public broadcast House Representatives chamber , giving Americans television-shaped window lawmakers behave ornate room history often made .
**************Ushering C-Span era March 19 , 1979 , Al Gore , representative Tennessee , pushed network ’ access Capitol .
**************“ From day forward , ” Mr. Gore said time , “ every member body must ask , many Americans listening debates made ? ”
**************Since day , C-Span debuted four employees , network become mainstay American politics . We spoke Susan Swain , one C-Span ’ two chief executives , birth network , Washington ’ initial resistance caught camera network adapted social media age .
**************This interview Ms. Swain , joined C-Span three years started , edited brevity clarity .
**************In moment Al Gore approached lectern House chamber C-Span went live , changed American politics ?
**************The fact people could actually see elected representatives living room — phones — fundamental change . In past , people might pull lever every two years member Congress , super engaged , might read newsletter came mail go occasional town hall meeting .
**************This meant time interested , could watch member Congress say . Prior television Congress , time members really got attention big names like Kennedy something outrageous , either positively negatively , member leadership .
**************Initially , lot resistance Washington idea C-Span broadcasting House floor debates . And Senate ’ allow C-Span another seven years . Why resistance ?
**************Members concerns cameras would swinging around taking pictures members focused attentively debates — heaven forbid — closing eyes second . Or today , perhaps might sending tweet .
**************One ways finally came bear created compromise members could live . The compromise House Representatives , speaker ’ office , would control cameras floor House . All rest Congress , press conferences hearings , ’ C-Span news organizations covering independently .
**************Every time ’ change speaker sent letter saying : ‘ Now ’ time . Allow C-Span journalistic organizations put cameras side side. ’ That argument continues go nowhere .
**************Were politicians self-conscious ’ appear camera ?
**************I think concern ’ control picture . The Senate finally acquiesced ’ classic story American politics .
**************The House coming people ’ living rooms via C-Span regularly nightly news could picked regularly nightly stories House . Television loves pictures , would stories House . The Senate becoming concerned becoming second-tier citizen Congress .
**************The person really instrumental Senator Robert Byrd West Virginia , one old-line members much institutionalist much concerned Senate would change . He went home West Virginia speak introduced West Virginia , home state , speaker House . And ’ big shock white hair , then-Speaker House Tip O ’ Neill . And brought home . So convinced recalcitrant members , vote C-Span went June 1986 .
**************What one significant memories time C-Span ?
**************The day Challenger shuttle exploded televising live , I believe I air shuttle going . And became clear watched picture shuttle major catastrophe .
**************We sat watched long NASA took pictures , story began unfold . Then opened phone lines . There incredible outpouring around country people witnessing absolute tragedy , human tragedy also technological tragedy unfold front eyes .
**************C-Span given politicians platform connect directly constituents , social media . Is C-Span still relevant ?
**************C-Span ’ relevance comes form events cover every day within minutes televise , digitized stored video archives . It 250,000 hours political video ’ covered since 1987 .
**************That means member Congress pull clip hearing send constituents . It also means people social media late-night comedians immediate access .
**************I think people 20s younger , experience C-Span social media , late-night comedians . The creation video library 1987 every bit significant original creation C-Span .
**************C-Span long fought cameras allowed Supreme Court chamber . What chances ’ succeed ?
**************I feel little bit like ’ Sisyphus pushing rock hill . What documented years people nominated Supreme Court go committee hearings expressing open mind concept , get inside chamber nine , manage convinced others would detrimental institution .
**************We keep hoping generations change younger appointees come familiar media even social media , attitude change . But institution continues prevail .
**************Follow Julia Jacobs Twitter : @ juliarebeccaj .
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Benjamin Mueller
**************LONDON — Britain ’ tottering efforts leave European Union remained impasse Thursday allies Prime Minister Theresa May tried keep deal alive face unbending opposition .
**************The deal , already defeated twice Parliament , given new life Wednesday Mrs. May promised Conservative Party colleagues hard-line supporters leaving bloc would step passed , let someone else take next stage talks Brussels process known Brexit .
**************[ Who could Britain ’ next prime minister ? Here contenders . ]
**************But even offer resign enough assuage hard-line Conservatives putative allies Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland , D.U.P. , hate deal .
**************So government tried new tack Thursday : Ministers said would disassemble Mrs. May ’ deal two parts — one called withdrawal agreement , political declaration — ask Parliament vote Friday first .
**************The withdrawal agreement outlines terms Britain ’ exit European Union , political declaration deals tangled question future relationship bloc .
**************The basics Brexit , troubled plan Britain quit European Union .
**************The speaker House Commons , John Bercow , said would allow Parliament vote plan changed substantially since rejected resoundingly — twice — Thursday said government met test .
**************Ministers pitching vote pro-Brexit hard-liners last opportunity secure Britain ’ exit European Union coming months , lest pro-Europeans Parliament take control try frustrate Brexit force longer delay .
**************Ministers also hoped date vote — March 29 , originally scheduled day Britain ’ exit — would put symbolic pressure pro-Brexit Conservatives swallow objections back Mrs. May .
**************But withdrawal agreement contains contentious pieces Mrs. May ’ plan .
**************Among so-called backstop least temporarily binds Britain , greater extent , Northern Ireland European trading rules avoid customs checks historically contentious border Ireland , part European Union , Northern Ireland , part United Kingdom .
**************Unionists Northern Ireland reject backstop believe would create regulatory differences Northern Ireland rest United Kingdom , putting union risk .
**************And British news media reports late Thursday said unionists intended vote Mrs. May ’ plan Friday , considerably narrowing prime minister ’ path victory .
**************There hope among Conservatives splitting Mrs. May ’ plan two would strengthen case opposition Labour lawmakers , whose main objections political declaration withdrawal agreement .
**************But Labour leaders reacted angrily idea Thursday , noting Mrs. May previously said two pieces plan inextricably linked .
**************Keir Starmer , senior Labour official , warned Thursday splitting “ would leave us blindest blindfold Brexits. ” He referring Labour ’ fear , Parliament passed part Mrs. May ’ plan prime minister resigned , hard-line pro-Brexit politician like Boris Johnson would take shape crucial next stage negotiations .
**************Stephen Doughty , Labour member Parliament , said , “ This looks like trickery highest order . ”
**************Confusion swirled day Parliament government ’ plans , ministers leaving lawmakers dark would voting Friday late afternoon .
**************At time , anti-Brexit lawmakers working behind scenes pick alternate plans put Parliament Monday , case Mrs. May ’ deal pass .
**************The anti-Brexit lawmakers buoyed votes Parliament Wednesday night catalog proposals clashed Mrs. May ’ .
**************Those included once-radical ideas like holding second public vote Brexit revoking Britain ’ decision leave altogether , well Brexit plans would see Britain keep closer ties Europe Mrs. May ’ proposal envisioned .
**************The votes represented first time two years Brexit negotiations Parliament allowed express feelings alternate plans , lawmakers hoped would show path compromise .
**************But chagrin Mrs. May ’ opponents , eight alternate plans failed muster majority , leading British newspaper The Guardian run headline front page Thursday : “ No . No . No . No . No . No . No . No . ”
**************Some proposals got close . A plan customs union Britain European Union lost six votes . ( Mr. Bercow said tallying error originally led say eight-vote margin . )
**************And option holding another referendum test Britons ’ views leaving bloc attracted support expected : 268 members voted favor , 295 .
**************The result proposal second referendum , coming weekend hundreds thousands people marched London another vote five million signed petition asking cancel Brexit , sign views anti-Brexit politicians grown intense process drags .
**************The nonbinding votes set stage another round debate Parliament Monday , menu alternate options whittled politicians given second chance coalesce behind new plan .
**************If Mrs. May ’ withdrawal agreement passes Friday , Parliament would meet European Union ’ deadline completing Brexit process extracting Britain bloc May 22 .
**************If , Britain could crash bloc without deal April 12 analysts say would calamitous exit , could ask longer extension .
**************Mrs. May ’ offer resign another reminder , anxiety Britain Brexit , Conservative Party politics still dictated large degree members ’ leadership ambitions .
**************Pro-Brexit politicians like Mr. Johnson long angling take Mrs. May , chance sooner rather later seemed enough many back months fierce opposition deal .
**************Mr. Johnson said Mrs. May ’ deal strapped “ suicide vest ” around country . Another hard-line pro-Brexit lawmaker , Jacob Rees-Mogg , said prime minister ’ plan would turn Britain “ slave state . ”
**************On Wednesday , said would back deal .
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Jim Tankersley Patricia Cohen
**************WASHINGTON — The longest government shutdown United States history resulted “ shocking ” number taxpayers ’ calls Internal Revenue Service going unreturned left languish hold unusually long periods , according government audit released Tuesday .
**************The audit , office National Taxpayer Advocate , found five million pieces mail went unanswered 87,000 amended tax returns processed shutdown , thousands I.R.S . workers furloughed working without pay .
**************The issues especially acute since followed significant changes tax code — ushered President Trump ’ $ 1.5 trillion tax overhaul — left many people questions filing returns .
**************The problems continued even shutdown , audit found . In week ended Feb. 2 , shortly agency employees returned jobs , fewer half calls I.R.S. ’ accounts-management lines answered , compared nearly 90 percent week last year . The typical hold time callers increased 17 minutes four minutes 2018 .
**************There similar frustrations called agency ’ so-called balance-due line hopes making payment arrangements taxes owed . Fewer 7 percent calls answered , typical wait stretched 80 minutes .
**************I.R.S . officials said reviewing taxpayer advocate ’ findings .
**************“ We continuing assess impact shutdown various operations across agency remain proud many I.R.S . employees risen resulting challenges , ” agency said statement . “ The I.R.S . committed continue making improvements across information technology , tax enforcement taxpayer service operations . ”
**************Data released agency last week showed Americans filed 12 percent fewer returns Feb. 2 , compared point 2018 , I.R.S . processed 26 percent fewer returns . The agency given indication — Tuesday ’ statement otherwise — might consider pushing back April ’ tax filing deadline order account shutdown-related snags .
**************The taxpayer advocate ’ audit focus solely shutdown ’ impact reflected effort office , led Nina E. Olson , capture typical taxpayer experience dealing I.R.S . The audit said many Americans ’ feelings process could boiled two words : “ extreme frustration . ”
**************The audit found policy change made Trump administration intended simplify tax-filing process — creation “ postcard size ” 1040 form — made filing difficult new form include much information many taxpayers need complete returns .
**************“ The new schedules force taxpayers cross-reference transfer data credits , deductions income , increasing potential errors occur since tax information dispersed many pages needs tracked reported different schedules forms , ” report says .
**************The problems became apparent 35-day shutdown , ended Jan. 25 , underscored agency ’ deeper flaws , including reliance 1960s-era technology , audit found . The systems contain official record taxpayer accounts oldest federal government .
**************“ For last 25 years I.R.S . tried — unable — replace , ” audit says , citing budgetary constraints .
**************The outdated systems deprive I.R.S . comprehensive view taxpayers ’ accounts , hampering agency ’ ability properly identify targeted outreach , collections audits .
**************Inadequate financing primary cause agency ’ failings , audit found . Congress long beat I.R.S. , routinely condemning performance cutting budget . For example , money technology improvements 2018 fiscal year reduced 62 percent , $ 110 million , year .
**************Taxpayers called I.R.S . last fall advice new tax law would affect frequently told “ tax law personnel time due budgetary cuts ” disconnected , audit found . Part reason decision agency answer tax law questions three half months January tax filing day .
**************A lack information also meant vast majority taxpayers eligible use free software file returns electronically take advantage program . Of 106 million taxpayers could qualify free program , fewer 2.5 million use .
**************Because editing error , earlier version article referred imprecisely 62 percent reduction financing Internal Revenue Service 2018 fiscal year . It applied technology improvements specifically , general improvements .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Dan Bilefsky
**************MONTREAL — Canadian diplomats posted Cuba suing government , claiming failed protect respond robustly mysterious illness acquired stationed Cuba .
**************The illness , known Havana Syndrome , affected dozens American Canadian diplomats posted Cuba , come symptoms like memory loss , sleep disturbance nosebleeds , saying heard strange high-pitched sound .
**************The suit , filed week federal court Toronto , says Canadian government slow respond provide sufficient medical treatment diplomats children targeted 2017 strange “ debilitating attacks ” resulted brain injuries without evident physical trauma .
**************Paul Miller , lawyer representing 14 diplomats , spouses children suing , compared attack preceded illnesses “ science fiction horror film . ”
**************He said plaintiffs seeking 28 million Canadian dollars damages .
**************“ It tragedy diplomats kids lifelong trauma attacks , ” said .
**************The plaintiffs identified pseudonyms “ sensitivities related work , nature injuries concerns expressed Canada relating , ” according suit .
**************The murky circumstances illness drawn international speculation . Neither United States Canada determined cause , leading speculation kind microwave weapon could involved .
**************Last month , Canadian government said would withdraw half diplomatic staff Cuba another employee fell ill condition , said affected 14 Canadian employees , spouses dependents .
**************So far , 26 Americans affected similar illnesses , according State Department .
**************Speaking reporters Washington Wednesday evening , Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland declined comment specifics case . But said met diplomats affected , health safety priority .
**************“ It ’ privilege serve Canada around world , ’ also really hard , ’ something whole families , ” said . “ I ’ really concerned , Canada ’ utmost sympathy support . ”
**************One Canadian career diplomat party suit , said family ’ lives turned upside-down . The diplomat , requested anonymity still worked government , said stationed Cuba 2017 suddenly fell ill debilitating headaches , initially attributed stress .
**************After hearing American cases Havana Syndrome , said connected symptoms high-pitched noises coming backyard .
**************She said 10-year-old daughter affected well , waking heavy nosebleed later suffering headaches forced miss school .
**************She said Canadian government waited months seeking treatment diplomats prevented warning colleagues posted Cuba .
**************The diplomat said emotional trauma suffering mysterious illness exacerbated feeling government believe .
**************The suit contends , despite knowing risks similar attacks American diplomats 2016 , Canada continued send diplomats Havana . It accused government playing seriousness situation , leaving victims “ contend rumors faking . ”
**************The plaintiffs also contend government restricted information could share doctors , tried stop University Pennsylvania Center Brain Injury Repair , studying syndrome , testing Canadians .
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Dave Philipps
**************SHREVEPORT , La . — Transgender troops like Senior Airman Sterling Crutcher seen “ unreasonable burden ” Trump administration . It says presence hurts morale military ’ ability fight , place uniform .
**************That ’ news Airman Crutcher . He got back deployment B-52 bomber squadron , , fellow airmen squadron , counts among best friends , threw shower wife , Aimee , celebrate first child , born February .
**************[ Sign weekly At War newsletter receive stories duty , conflict consequence . ]
**************“ At level , ’ issue , ” Airman Crutcher , 30 , said serving transgender . “ I meet exceed standards , people I work , like . They lot questions , ’ problem . ”
**************This uneasy time transgender troops United States military , caught commander chief wants court injunctions , least temporarily , said could stay . ( The last injunctions lifted Thursday . )
**************But dozens transgender troops like Airman Crutcher said interviews felt supported service . Their comrades commanders welcomed , said , military often accepting homes neighborhoods left enlist .
**************Nearly 1,000 troops officially deemed transgender currently serving American military , according Defense Department , another 228 process enlisting . They globe wide spectrum roles — infantry officers , armor platoon leaders , drill sergeants , intelligence specialists , Arabic linguists , nuclear reactor operators . A transgender instructor teaches leadership Naval Academy .
**************They started coming publicly 2016 military lifted longtime ban , concluding would significant negative impact budgets operations . But President Trump announced abrupt reversal policy Twitter year later , saying would longer allow transgender troops serve “ capacity . ”
**************The Defense Department laid arguments excluding transgender troops House Armed Services Committee late last month . James N. Stewart , senior Pentagon official , testified transgender troops prone mental health issues troops , transition , medical treatments make nondeployable months — factors said would make recruits ineligible serve stemmed kinds pre-existing health conditions .
**************Mr. Stewart , retired Air Force general , rejected calling policy ban , saying policy drafted president ’ Twitter announcement still allows transgender troops serve , long never transition .
**************He argued troops transitioned ranks could also raise complicated questions physical fitness standards access shower bathroom facilities may upset others , leading “ unnecessary debilitating leadership challenges . ”
**************Other troops military leaders disagree . Five transgender troops also testified hearing said , aside uncertainty created change policy , encountered problems transitioning uniform . Instances harassment , according Sparta , association transgender troops .
**************And testimony Senate last spring , heads Army , Navy , Air Force Marine Corps said aware issues caused transgender troops serving openly .
**************Airman Crutcher says people outside unit realize transgender . He relaxes weekends playing video games Airsoft gun battles troops unit .
**************“ There ’ nothing remarkable either way , ” said Senior Airman Kyle Daily , serves squadron . “ There people unit ’ agree , ’ minority . ”
**************Many transgender recruits come socially conservative small towns strict religious upbringings , spent youth feeling like misfits . Some troops born anatomically male said interviews enlisted initial hope military service would drum feminine feelings .
**************“ I hoped would straighten — I ’ want family hate , ” said Aylanna Anderson , Air Force staff sergeant raised Catholic tiny West Texas town became Eagle Scout . “ I hoped I could leave I saw dark part behind . ”
**************To surprise , enlisting 2012 , Sergeant Anderson said , found culture emphasized judging people ability , identity . She began transition female 2017 .
**************“ The military freeing , ” said phone Kunsan Air Base South Korea , repairs electronics F-16 fighters . “ I ’ know I could done otherwise . ”
**************Airman Crutcher , grew Pentecostal household rural Missouri , said wrote heartfelt letter family lifelong sense boy girl ’ body , refused read , asking instead drugs .
**************By contrast , came Air Force commander , said reaction , “ What I need ? I want make sure supported . ”
**************A days back deployment Guam bomber squadron , shopping crib pregnant wife got text mother .
**************But ’ birth mother , says essentially disowned told 2015 transgender . It Air Force mother — Kim Thomas , wife lieutenant colonel , informally adopted meeting basic training . He spends holidays family calls Mom .
**************“ She ’ best , ” Airman Crutcher said leaned wife ’ phone see photo Ms. Thomas sent new outfit baby . “ It life-changing support family love matter . ”
**************Ms. Thomas said taking Airman Crutcher wing came naturally . “ Here amazing kid volunteered fight die country , ” said . “ We going allow go military without support . ”
**************A 2016 RAND Corporation study found nearly one-fifth transgender troops plan transition medically . Those transition may , depending gender preference , undergo hormone therapy , breast removal procedures , like surgery make facial features voices gender appropriate . All covered military .
**************Transitioning troops also request surgery change genitals , approval process recovery time lengthy . The Defense Department respond questions many gender reassignment procedures performed troops since ban lifted 2016 ; Sparta estimates figure six .
**************The cost disruption associated surgery chief complaint critics , RAND study estimated factors would negligible , fewer 200 active troops transitioning per year total cost less $ 10 million . In interviews , troops transitioned said tried time surgical procedures scheduled lulls unit activity , sometimes put deployments demanding work assignments .
**************Even , transitioning detour careers . Some Sparta members said removed sensitive jobs pilots , air traffic controllers nuclear missile operators , concern might mentally unstable .
**************Regulations get way , well . Airman Crutcher sent home early 2016 deployment Qatar medical staff discovered testosterone treatments receiving violated rule injected medications troops deployed region .
**************“ I crushed , ” said . “ My major called said fought stay , regulations . ”
**************Capt . Alivia Stehlik transgender woman graduated West Point man 2008 , completed Army ’ punishing Ranger School led infantry platoon . She Army physical therapist stationed Fort Carson , Colo .
**************In interview home , said transition seen asset , burden .
**************She volunteered deploy Afghanistan infantry brigade last spring unit ’ regular physical therapist became pregnant . Captain Stehlik spent nearly year hopping helicopters base base , treating sprains injuries medical bag one hand M-4 rifle .
**************Six-foot-three broad-shouldered , said would pretty obvious 1,700 soldiers treated transgender , never problem .
**************“ It ’ woman I still job I man — I actually better , ” Captain Stehlik said . “ People actually open I made vulnerable . I think I still guy , might downplayed much things hurt , tried act tough . And I might , . ”
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Elizabeth A. Harris
**************The United States Copyright Office said dance first popularized TV show “ The Fresh Prince Bel-Air ” could copyrighted actor created , according court documents filed week .
**************Alfonso Ribeiro , actor played Carlton show , one several performers sued video game makers recent months saying dances , purchased performed avatars games , stolen . Mr. Ribeiro sued Epic Games , maker Fortnite Battle Royale , well Take-Two Interactive Software , makes NBA 2K16 .
**************But copyright office convinced Mr. Ribeiro called Carlton Dance — enthusiastically swings arms sways hips — eligible copyright protection , saying “ simple routine , ” complex enough clear bar .
**************“ That surprise least , ” said Robert Brauneis , co-director intellectual property program George Washington University Law School .
**************“ It ’ like word short phrase , ” Professor Brauneis said . “ The copyright office always taken position words phrases copyrightable , exactly like word phrase dance . You could repeat word phrase indefinitely — I ’ shaking hips , I ’ shaking hips , — repetition ’ make fragment subject copyright protection . ”
**************Courts bound copyright office ’ decision could reach different conclusion , Professor Brauneis said copyright office ’ determination would taken consideration .
**************Mr. Ribeiro ’ lawyer , David L. Hecht , said planned ask copyright office reconsider , even individual movements considered simple , way clients arranged movements considered choreographic works .
**************“ It ’ combine notes musical composition , ” said . “ Those compilations would entitled copyright protection law . ”
**************Mr. Hecht said Mr. Ribeiro submitted three copyright applications . Two rejected one still consideration . Mr. Hecht said request copyright rapper 2 Milly rejected tried register Milly Rock , ask copyright office reconsider . But clients better luck . Russell Horning , teenager known “ Backpack Kid , ” able register office 30-second dance Mr. Hecht described “ variant ” dance called Floss .
**************Epic Games Take-Two Interactive declined comment Friday .
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Richard Pérez-Peña Stephen Castle
**************LONDON — A small influential party aligned Prime Minister Theresa May ’ government suggested Friday still support plan Britain ’ departure European Union , development could doom hopes persuading Parliament pass deal next week third try .
**************The Democratic Unionist Party Northern Ireland holds 10 seats 650-seat House Commons . But central sticking point talks British withdrawal handle border Northern Ireland Ireland , party ’ position carries disproportionate weight others Parliament .
**************Parliament twice rejected agreement Mrs. May negotiated European Union Britain ’ departure , known Brexit , times D.U.P . voted , largely concerns border issue .
**************If Parliament rejects deal , still possibility cliff-edge Brexit short term much longer delay renegotiate agreement leave .
**************Mrs. May ’ position appears grow precarious day — chances winning approval Brexit deal , hold power . Longstanding talk could ousted party , Parliament whole , intensified , becoming constant rumble background says .
**************On Tuesday , speaker House Commons , John Bercow , ruled could bring plan vote third time without substantive change . On Wednesday , delivered speech blaming Parliament paralysis , angering lawmakers sides .
**************On Thursday , European Union leaders agreed postpone March 29 departure date , rejected prime minister ’ request three-month delay , giving next week win parliamentary approval deal come alternative April 12 .
**************If deal agreed Parliament , Britain ’ exit pushed back May 22 . On Friday came blow Democratic Unionist Party , Monday , lawmakers try seize control Brexit policy Mrs. May .
**************Nigel Dodds , leader D.U.P. ’ caucus Parliament , said statement posted party ’ website “ inexcusable ” Mrs. May met bloc ’ leaders major concessions .
**************“ The government far willing capitulate securing necessary changes would get agreement House Commons , ” said .
**************His party many others support withdrawal contend Mrs. May ’ deal could leave Britain trapped , making subject European Union economic rules indefinitely . And treating Northern Ireland differently rest nation , say , deal risks splitting United Kingdom apart .
**************“ Nothing changed far Withdrawal Agreement concerned , ” Mr. Dodds said . “ We accept deal poses long-term risk constitutional economic integrity United Kingdom . ”
**************Mrs. May planned try third vote Parliament , would need win votes 70 members . That considered tall order even Mr. Dodds ’ message , several Brexit supporters prime minister ’ Conservative Party said would follow D.U.P. ’ lead .
**************She still days win critics , unlikely take Mr. Dodds ’ statement party ’ final word . But another blow , capping frenetic week setbacks .
**************With Mrs. May ’ leadership questioned fellow Conservatives , third rejection plan would increase pressure resign . Her shifting signals might proceed defeat alienated lawmakers .
**************She little room error . Conservatives short majority , able govern — recently — support Democratic Unionists .
**************On Monday , Parliament scheduled consider could first major step toward taking control process away government . It vote whether hold rapid-fire series votes specific alternatives plan .
**************A similar proposal defeated last week , two votes , 314 312 , Mrs. May ’ standing improved since .
**************Having Parliament state preferences could allow form cross-party consensus emerge favor form Brexit keeps closer ties European Union Mrs. May , party , would like . That would require reopening negotiations bloc , would mean long delay .
**************European leaders made clear doubt Parliament approve Mrs. May ’ plan , one reason willing grant short postponement . The extension makes April 12 new date Britain leave union , Parliament rejects deal Mrs. May create credible alternative .
**************Leaving without pact place Europe would upend Britain ’ trade relationships , experts say would serious economic damage — prospect prime minister used pressure want soft Brexit Brexit .
**************But hard-core Brexit supporters like idea “ no-deal ” withdrawal , insist predictions harm wrong , leaving little incentive support Mrs. May .
**************Meanwhile , pro-European Conservatives , regard abrupt chaotic departure dread , may motivated turn vote Monday exert parliamentary control .
**************Under new timetable , Parliament approves Mrs. May ’ deal , Brexit take effect May 22 , giving Britain time work details .
**************The alternative , European Union officials said , long delay , possibly two years , Britain rethink position , possibly , restart negotiations .
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
**************Advertisement
**************Supported
**************By Maggie Astor
**************The House Oversight Reform Committee investigating allegations voter suppression Georgia Secretary State Brian Kemp , since become governor .
**************The investigation revealed letters committee ’ Democratic leaders sent Wednesday Mr. Kemp successor secretary state , Brad Raffensperger . The letters instructed Mr. Kemp Mr. Raffensperger — Republicans — provide March 20 wide range documents concerning voter roll purges ; holds placed voter registration applications ; polling site changes closings ; voting-related issues .
**************The committee also requested documents related potential conflict interest Mr. Kemp faced administering election candidate .
**************“ The Committee particularly concerned reports Georgians faced unprecedented challenges registering vote significant barriers casting votes tenure secretary state 2018 election , ” Representatives Elijah E. Cummings , committee chairman , Jamie Raskin , head Subcommittee Civil Rights Civil Liberties , wrote Mr. Kemp .
**************Mr. Kemp Republicans committee immediately dismissed investigation political effort , aimed undermining results election Democrats lost .
**************[ Make sense people , issues ideas shaping American politics newsletter . ]
**************The letter outlined several points scrutiny 2018 governor ’ race , Stacey Abrams , Democrat , posed strong challenge Mr. Kemp normally solidly Republican state .
**************Many voters , especially heavily African-American counties , waited polling places hours “ hundreds available voting machines sat unused government warehouses , ” letter noted . State officials sequestered machines response federal lawsuit said vulnerable hacking .
**************Tens thousands voter registration applications , mostly African-Americans , held state law requires name application exactly match name applicant ’ government ID ; even missing hyphen cause problems .
**************Mr. Kemp ’ office purged 1.4 million voters rolls tenure . ( States required keep rolls up-to-date remove people moved , , including Georgia , much zealous others , starting purging process basis voter cast ballot recently . ) And county state officials closed 200 polling places 2012 2018 .
**************Throughout campaign , Mr. Kemp denied intentional voter suppression . Asked comment Wednesday , spokesman directed The Times video news conference Mr. Kemp suggested investigation politically motivated distraction important issues .
**************“ They need quit playing politics , ” Mr. Kemp said news conference , pivoting attack House Democrats giving billions dollars disaster aid Puerto Rico “ farmers fixing lose farm. ” He said nothing substance allegations document requests , spokesman respond follow-up email .
**************Mr. Raffensperger , current secretary state , said received letter office “ looks forward open dialogue thorough process . ”
**************Mr. Cummings Mr. Raskin , Democratic committee leaders , immediately available interviews Wednesday . But decision open investigation evidence House Democrats , newly empowered November election , intend act aggressively issues like allegations voter suppression back burner first two years Trump administration .
**************Representative Jim Jordan , committee ’ ranking Republican , said spokesman “ highly unusual congressional committee involve state ’ election . ”
**************“ This squarely purview state Georgia , House Oversight Committee , ” Mr. Jordan said statement . “ We ’ help think attempts Democrats insert committee state ’ business attempt relitigate election result like . ”
**************Mr. Kemp narrowly defeated Ms. Abrams , ended campaign declaring , “ This speech concession , concession means acknowledge action right , true proper . ”
**************
**************
**************
**************
**************Advertisement
