AdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth DiasIt was a momentous vote for the United Methodist Church, as the future of the country’s second-largest Protestant church hung in the balance. In a former football stadium in St. Louis last month, church officials and lay leaders from around the world voted to strengthen their ban on same-sex marriage and gay clergy, a decision that could now split the church.But at least four ballots were cast by individuals who were not authorized to vote, according to interviews and a review of the church’s records. The individuals were from African delegations whose votes were critical to restricting the church’s rules on homosexuality.The final 54-vote margin against gay clergy and same-sex marriage exceeds the number of unauthorized votes discovered so far. But the voting irregularities raised questions about the process behind the divisive decision, which devastated progressive members. Some have discussed leaving the denomination and possibly creating a new alliance for gay-friendly churches.Church leaders are now discussing whether new votes should be called, Bishop Thomas J. Bickerton, who serves on the commission on the general conference, said in a phone interview.“The findings that have come out have caused a serious impact on issues of trust and integrity about the whole process,” he said.A query by The New York Times last week prompted church officials to hire a consulting firm to examine whether people who were ineligible may have received credentials to vote at the church’s general conference.Church leaders who oversaw the conference said in a statement that the audit showed it was “possible that a very limited number of ineligible persons” had participated. These people were denied credentials by staff at the conference, the officials said, but were later able to procure them.The Times found additional irregularities. For example, two delegates from South Congo, a church district in the Democratic Republic of Congo, are listed on the official attendance records. But they never traveled to the United States for the conference because of visa issues, according to a phone interview with one of the delegates and a message sent by the other to Rev. Kalaba Chali, an official translator for the conference, who did not support the decision to strengthen the ban on gay clergy. In addition, three people voted as delegates for South Congo but their names are absent from conference attendance logs and delegate election records.One unauthorized delegate was Philippe Kasap Kachez, whose father is Bishop Kasap Owan, a prominent opponent of gay clergy. Three Methodists from the Congo region identified Mr. Kasap Kachez to The Times as a voter seated on the floor. Mr. Chali spoke with him in St. Louis and asked why he was present.“He said he did not go to a Methodist church in Congo; instead he lives in Brussels,” Mr. Chali said in a phone interview. “He said, ‘I came here because my dad asked me to come vote against the lesbians.’”When contacted on Facebook and WhatsApp, Mr. Kasap Kachez declined to comment. Bishop Kasap Owan did not respond to questions.“To learn that there were irregularities in the voting is distressing and of great concern,” said Bishop Kenneth H. Carter, the president of the Council of Bishops, said in an interview on Thursday.When asked what these findings meant for the result of the vote of the general conference, the Rev. Gary W. Graves, secretary of the conference, said, “That is a matter that would still be under review.”The United Methodist Church has detailed strict rules for how to conduct important votes, such as the one last month on gay clergy.The church worldwide is divided into geographical units, called “annual conferences.” Each one elects delegates to the church’s global meetings, called “general conferences,” and it also elects “reserves” in case a delegate is not able to attend. The list of delegates and the reserves for each region is published at the start of the general conference.In the rare event that neither delegates nor reserves can attend, an annual conference can send a different individual, but only if that person was elected as an alternate for the process that elects bishops. Even then, those reserves would have to have followed the proper registration procedures to be allowed onto the floor.There are no exceptions to this rule, which is codified in the church’s Book of Discipline.Experts in Methodist governance say it would be highly unusual for a delegate to be allowed on the floor who was not listed publicly as a delegate or reserve at the start of the general conference.But there were examples of discrepancies between who voted and who was listed as eligible to vote.Germain Unda Mupasa said in a phone interview that he was a delegate for East Congo, where his father is Bishop Gabriel Yemba Unda. His name is on the attendance record, but not on the authorized list of delegates or reserves. Records on the United Methodist website show that he was not elected as a delegate or alternate when the church community in East Congo decided its delegation last year.“If my name was not on that list, it means my name was missed,” Mr. Mupasa said. “In Africa, we can have many reserves, because there are visa issues.”Hassa Satshishinga Suzanne Malandji was listed as an elected reserve delegate for Lukoshi, another church district in Africa, but she told The Times she was a delegate for South Congo. She said that she supported the vote outcome because “we have the responsibility to do what the Bible says.”Voting integrity matters not just for the outcome of the vote, but for the fair representation of all churches. Some delegations, like South Congo, had delegates who could not travel because of visa issues. But in several cases, to abide by the rules, delegations like North Katanga, also a church district in Congo, voted with fewer than their allotted delegates, according to attendance records.Church law does not allow proxy votes, and only elected reserves can replace absent delegates.The United Methodist legal structure does not have a clear procedure on how to investigate or adjudicate improper election activity. The relevant ethics committee does not have jurisdiction when the general conference is not in session.The system itself has not had to ask itself these types of questions, said Laceye Warner, a professor of Methodist studies at Duke Divinity School.“The polity of the United Methodist Church presumes trust,” she said. “The last several years, the ethos of the denomination has been characterized more by mistrust and misunderstanding.”Margaret Kramer and Jennifer Harlan contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byLocal officials across the country will have a chance to vote on new energy efficiency standards for buildings. But few tend to vote, which could put the outcome in jeopardy.By Justin GillisMr. Gillis is a contributing opinion writer.One of the great achievements of politics in the late 19th and early 20th centuries was the spread of effective building codes that made our buildings safer and sturdier, and our cities less likely to burn down.For the last couple of decades we have been using those building codes for an additional purpose: saving energy. The average house or office building constructed today is required to have better windows and insulation than the drafty old buildings we used to put up, so that a new building wastes far less energy over its lifetime.Making buildings more efficient not only saves consumers money, it is also crucial in the fight against global warming because it cuts the use of fossil fuels. We are a few months away from an election, of sorts, that could tighten our building codes still further.But forces are already stirring in the land to make sure this vote goes the wrong way. Those forces may be abetted by low voter turnout, which has been a big problem in the past. If history repeats itself this year, the energy policy of the United States may be influenced by fewer than 500 people.The technology of buildings continually evolves, creating new ways to save energy. Tightening our building codes regularly is the best way to pull these new techniques into the market. However, building to the latest standards can cost a little extra money, at least initially, so you can probably guess where some of the opposition originates.America has no national building code, strictly speaking. States and cities adopt and enforce their own. These local codes tend to be based on a few national model codes put out by several organizations, generally every three years.One of the most important models is the International Energy Conservation Code, which many American communities use as the template for their energy-saving code provisions. The latest version will be finalized in a round of voting later this year, and most communities will decide in 2020 whether to incorporate it into their own codes. So in this election, the “candidates” are proposed new standards for how people ought to construct buildings in the United States. Who gets to vote? Basically, the governments that will ultimately decide whether to adopt this code as their own pick representatives to cast ballots. Small towns get a handful of votes while big cities get more. Municipalities tend to nominate representatives with expertise in the subject — say, the heads of their building, fire and planning departments.In theory, tens of thousands of these municipal officials could vote in the election. But people running busy departments have tended to let this duty fall off their radar, with many of those eligible to vote never signing up to take part. And of those who do sign up, some are chiefly concerned with provisions like fire safety, so they stop voting when they get to the energy provisions.By now you may be wondering why all this is important. Because when so few people vote, groups opposed to improved building codes can gin up enough no votes to kill important measures — with long-term consequences for all of us. I repeat: This is a central aspect of the energy policy for the entire country, routinely decided by fewer voters than might turn out for a New England town hall.When the energy codes started, proponents of better buildings made some amazing gains; over the course of two code cycles a decade ago, projected energy use in buildings was cut by more than 30 percent. But the last two times the vote was held, important changes to the model building code were voted down, in some cases by relatively few votes.And who would be against them? The National Association of Home Builders. This industry group always complains vociferously about requirements like newer window technology or better light fixtures that will drive up builders’ costs by 1 or 2 percent. Of course the buyers of those houses would get the money back in a few short years through lower energy bills, a point the opponents rarely mention.For the coming election, a coalition of experts focused on building efficiency is aiming for a minimum improvement of 10 percent, and hoping for more. Given how slow the building industry is to change, 10 percent is a big number. The home builders are already organizing to try to block the effort.So we need our communities to act. In particular, more than 400 American mayors have committed themselves to battling greenhouse emissions. If you are one of them, here is a concrete step: Make sure that your city or county agencies have paid their dues to the International Code Council, the group that runs this election, and that they intend to nominate voting representatives. The deadline to pay the dues is March 29, and if your jurisdiction does not sign up by then, it will not be able to cast votes this fall.The measures themselves are pretty technical, so how can you tell which are good? Anybody planning to vote on the model code should follow the work of the Energy Efficient Codes Coalition, in Washington, which plans to offer advice on specific measures.Once an improved model code is out next year, mayors should move to adopt it for their localities as quickly as possible. Yes, the local builders will whine. You can point out to them that we are trying to salvage a livable climate for our children and grandchildren, and we really need their help putting up less wasteful buildings.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Justin Gillis, a former Times editor and environmental reporter, has been a contributor to the Opinion section since January 2018. He is working on a book about energy policy.  @JustinHGillis • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byFixesPolitical organizers have at their hands a timeless way to get young people to cast ballots: Link them with friends who will do the same. Now there are apps to help.By Tina RosenbergMs. Rosenberg is a co-founder of the Solutions Journalism Network, which supports rigorous reporting about responses to social problems.Youth turnout in the November 2018 election was by the far the highest it’s been in a midterm election in the last 25 years, and probably ever. That record high was … 31 percent. That means that nearly 70 percent of eligible voters under 30 stayed home. That’s at least better than the 80 percent who stayed home in previous midterms.Here’s another statistic: Young people support Democratic candidates by a 2-to-1 margin.They just don’t bother to vote their choices. If the Democrats can change that, they’ll win more elections.Earlier in Fixes, I wrote about what the United States could do to raise voter turnout: make voter registration automatic, hold elections on Sundays — things almost every mature democracy does.A healthy democracy needs more participation in general. Winning elections, however, requires candidates to identify, mobilize and turn out their own supporters. There are a lot of new technological tools to do this. But one important innovation doesn’t require technology. It’s based on a strategy that’s not new at all. It relies on the most powerful motivator of youth: friends.Here’s an example: In 2014, Sangeeth Peruri decided to run for the school board in his hometown Los Altos, Calif. He was active in his son’s school — his daughter was a toddler — and on school district committees. Mr. Peruri had been an investment manager and was a pretty good amateur athlete: he competed to get on Season 6 of the televised competition American Ninja Warrior (Here’s the video he made when applying to compete in the seventh season).In his race for the school board, two other candidates were from a local charter school that was in a land dispute with the neighborhood schools. A statewide political action committee, the California Charter School Association, poured money into the race. The two pro-charter candidates spent about $100,000 — in a school district with about 30,000 voters. Mr. Peruri said he spent about $4,000, plus filing fees.The race was ugly. Mr. Peruri said that someone wrote letters, mostly anonymous, to the local papers and to his endorsers and major supporters, insinuating a falsehood: that he had been connected with insider trading in his former job. Some of his supporters, concerned, asked him to retire from the campaign. “It was a traumatic experience,” he said. “Just reliving it gives me the chills” Campaigning became impossible. “Phone calls and door to door didn’t work any more,” he said. “People didn’t know whether to trust you or the rumors.”The turning point came when a woman came up to him and told him he had her vote. “What convinced you?” he asked. “Coach K told me to vote for you,” she said.Coach K led a math competition team that a large number of young students had joined. “It struck me that if I’m going to win this race, I have to find the Coach Ks,” Mr. Peruri said. He mapped out the town’s schools, churches, sports programs and civic groups, identifying their leaders. He met them, talked to them and asked them to talk to their friends. He found residents who would invite him to neighborhood block parties and introduce him around. “I looked for any group that had strong ties in the community,” he said.Mr. Peruri won, and served as president of the school board.That, of course, is how local campaigns used to work: candidates won votes by having personal conversations with real people.But it isn’t any more. Now candidates spend their time on the phone with rich people, raising money so they can buy television and Facebook ads — often ads that seek to mobilize voters by getting them angry, ads that polarize and degrade civic life. Organizing is often done by volunteers contacting people they don’t know. “I’ve found it really peculiar that everything we do in campaigns is stranger-to-stranger outreach,” Mr. Peruri said.How can we replicate Coach K for the modern world? Mr. Peruri is trying to do that. He created a program called VoterCircle, one of several new apps and strategies to get people to encourage friends to vote. This very old idea has a new, fancy name — “relational organizing.” What’s new is the debut of software that allows campaigns to do this strategically and track the results. “The new tools enable campaigns to make these asks of organizers more targeted and more integrated into their organizing program,” said Tara McGowan, founder and chief executive of Acronym, an organization that builds digital tools for progressive candidates.We know that when people are unsure of something, they rely on advice from friends. The most dramatic proof that this applies to voting comes from a Facebook experiment on Election Day 2010 involving 61 million people. It found that a message at the top of their feeds with voting information and an “I Voted” button only brought results (including an actual increase in voting) if it contained pictures of people’s Facebook friends who had voted. Absent this peer proof, information about voting didn’t work. The study also looked at those Facebook users’ friends and found a contagion effect — but only among close friends.So far, the new relational organizing tools are used mostly by Democrats. But Republicans will catch up. “The Democratic Party has always been the party of organizing,” Ms. McGowan said. “Republicans rely more on messaging and communications, and they are more sophisticated about it in a lot of ways.” Friend-to-friend organizing works particularly well with the Democratic electorate, which is heavy on young people and minorities.One app is for citizens (of either party), not campaigns. VoteWithMe crosses your phone contacts with voter registries. It can tell which friends live in swing districts — and whether they voted (but not how they voted, of course) in the last few elections. This gives you a list of the highest-impact potential voters to nudge, however you wish.What might help make VoteWithMe effective is the shame factor. Many people are startled to know that their friends can see whether they voted — and that’s an incentive to vote.OutVote is a bit more formal. You use the app to join progressive campaigns and advocacy on issues that you choose. (The app is free to volunteers but charges the campaigns and organizations.) At the campaign’s request, you ask your friends to show up at events, donate, vote and do other tasks. In that way, the app turns volunteers into mini-organizers.Mr. Peruri’s VoterCircle is a tool for campaigns — it’s free for small campaigns, but charges bigger ones. Campaigns ask volunteers to download VoterCircle, which compares their email and phone contact lists with the voter registry, creating a list of people eligible to support the candidate. It gives volunteers a message that they can personalize and text or email to their friends. The program tracks who has been contacted and how they responded.No one advocates using only relational organizing; it’s one strategy among many. And like anything new, it has issues. (Acronym has done detailed analyses of these and other digital political tools.)“The biggest dig is it’s really effective for a small group, but it doesn’t scale,” said Jessica Alter, co-founder of Tech for Campaigns, which provides expert tech volunteers to progressive campaigns. Other issues: new software can be buggy, and if it’s hard to use, volunteers won’t download and use the programs. And they’re only as good as the data they rely on. That’s problematic. Voter rolls, for example, have only addresses, but people’s contact lists usually have only phone numbers and emails. “If they’re common names, we have the user specify which voter is their friend,” Mr. Peruri said. “We have algorithms to improve the matching. But it’s never perfect.”What about the Coach Ks? To find what VoterCircle calls “super influencers,” the program maps out contact networks and identifies people at the center of the densest nodes — people who could influence hundreds of voters. It tells the campaign which supporters know that person. So the candidate can meet Coach K through a friend — no cold-calling.Mr. Peruri said that about 2,000 progressive campaigns and organizations have used VoterCircle since 2016. A researcher looked at the effects in one election, a mail-only special election for a school tax in Menlo Park, Calif. Getting a VoterCircle email from a friend was associated with at least a 25 percent greater likelihood of voting — an enormous effect. But this was a small sample, not a randomized trial, and the kind of election where such a program is most effective: one where people have little information and few turn out.Vote Tripling is very new — used in only a handful of campaigns last year — and something different. It’s not software; it’s an idea. Campaigns normally ask supporters to pledge to vote. The Vote Tripling strategy asks them instead to pledge to remind three friends to vote.It works like this: Campaigns ask their supporters to choose three friends they will remind to vote, and to tell the campaigns their first names. On the day before Election Day, the campaign goes back to supporters — by text, phone call or in person — and reminds them that they pledged to nudge Joe, Jane and Harriet to vote.The number three is important. Too much choice is overwhelming, said Robert Reynolds, a behavioral scientist who devised Vote Tripling. “If you ask people to get 10 friends to vote, they’ll get zero,” he said. “If you ask them to get three, they’ll get three.” It’s also crucial to get people to choose in advance the friends who need nudges. “This decision of which friends they will mobilize is sufficiently hard that people will procrastinate,” he said.There are only bits of evidence so far that Vote Tripling works — nonpublished preliminary results of one randomized control trial found that friends contacted by vote triplers were twice as likely to vote. But Mr. Reynolds argues that there’s no reason not to try it. A non-activist might not download an organizing app, but she’ll gladly ask three friends to vote. (Non-activists are actually more effective at mobilizing others than activists are.) It’s free, and there’s no opportunity cost. It treats people as leaders — less patronizing than asking them to commit to vote. He said one campaign got 3,000 people to take a vote tripling pledge in two hours.Mr. Reynolds supports Democrats, but he’s happy to have Republicans use Vote Tripling, because he thinks it’s good for the political system. Friend-to-friend organizing isn’t just a way to raise turnout. It could be a way to democratize democracy — to push candidates a little bit out of rooms with rich people into rooms with neighborhood leaders and to help ordinary people understand and use their influence. With their friends, Mr. Reynolds said, “I’m just some random dude. But you, sir or ma’am, you are powerful.”Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book “The Haunted Land: Facing Europe’s Ghosts After Communism.” She is a former editorial writer for The Times and the author, most recently, of ”Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World>” and the World War II spy story e-book “D for Deception.”To receive email alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byIn rural India, old class divisions still rule local politics. Will this spell trouble for Narendra Modi? By Ruchir SharmaMr. Sharma is a contributing opinion writer and the author of the forthcoming memoir “Democracy on the Road: A 25-Year Journey Through India,” from which this essay is adapted.When I was growing up in India in the 1970s and ’80s, my father’s job as a naval officer took our family from one big city to another, from Bombay to Singapore. But every summer, we spent a month with my maternal grandparents in Bijnor, a small city in Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, and one of its poorest.Today, my city friends are surprised to hear I have roots in the “mofussil,” a British colonial term for the countryside that Indians now use to refer to rural places where old ways run deep. And few traditions run deeper than the 3,000-year-old caste hierarchy. Originating in ancient Hindu teachings, the system divided the Hindu majority by occupation, with Brahmins — priests and scholars — at the top, followed by warriors, traders and laborers. At the bottom were night soil workers and other “untouchables.”Shortly after independence in 1947, India banned caste discrimination. Leaders of the untouchables proudly renamed themselves Dalits and demanded an end to their daily indignities. But many of the old ideas and practices endured, especially in places like Bijnor, which in the 1980s was not unlike America in the 1880s, or even 1950s, when raw discrimination was normal.Pillars of the community like my grandfather, a Brahmin lawyer and landowner beloved to many as Babuji, lived by the rules of the mofussil. Brahmin homes kept separate plates for wealthy Muslims — poorer Muslims and Dalits stayed outside. Those who worked Babuji’s sugar cane fields sometimes communicated with him by bellowing down the long veranda, on which they knew not to tread.In a society that associates light skin with upper class and caste, my unmarried aunts would slather themselves with a pungent milk cream and roam the house like so many ghosts. Should one of us children touch a member of the caste assigned to emptying toilets, we would be rushed off to bathe. The staff was scolded with a string of invective ending in a vulgar epithet. Once, when the adults forgot the epithet, my 4-year-old cousin blurted it out. Everyone laughed at how clever she was.Lacking parks, pools or steady electric power, Bijnor had nothing for a boy to do. So I started following India’s favorite spectator sport: politics. I would listen as the adults hurled insults at the sole state TV channel and its propaganda for the then-dominant Congress Party. By my early teens, I was venturing into the town square to soak up the debates, often monopolized by upper-caste complaints about how the Congress leaders were “coddling” Muslims and Dalits, reserving government jobs and privileges for them, threatening the Hindu way of life.Babuji, the rock of our family, passed away in 1993. I moved on to college and stopped visiting Bijnor, but my taste for politics remained. In my early 20s, I formed a group of fellow writers to follow Indian campaigns at least once a year. Even after taking a day job as an investor and moving to Manhattan in 2002, I kept returning. Twenty-seven trips later I had crisscrossed every major state in India, but had not visited Bijnor until late last year.I returned with the idea of ending a forthcoming book about India in a classic mofussil town. The dirt roads and pontoon river crossings that once separated Delhi from Bijnor had been replaced by paved highways and suspension bridges. But the 100-mile trip still took four hours, thanks to recent development and the traffic it has created. The town square was more chaotic than ever, crowded with motorcycles weaving fast among the cows. And while some caste lines had faded, they remained as rigid as ever in politics.A joke about the changing social mores of urban India has a mother telling her child in the 1970s to marry anyone, so long as they are in your caste. In the ’80s that became anyone in your religion, in the 1990s anyone in your country, and in the 2000s anyone of the opposite sex. But Bijnor drew the line at marrying outside one’s religion. Bijnor’s district magistrate — the most powerful local official — was a Brahmin named Atal Kumar Rai, who said he still got complaints about “Love Jihad,” an alleged conspiracy to convert young Hindu women to Islam through marriage.Mr. Rai and others said progress was more visible in the commercial sphere: Muslims and Dalits were no longer denied service at lunch counters; castes were no longer confined to divinely decreed occupations. Many were working in local restaurants, some as cooks, where former “untouchables” were now allowed to touch the food of higher castes.By comparison, politics seemed stuck in the past. From 2014 to 2018, 100 million Indians had reached voting age, and many pundits thought this youth bloc would ignore caste loyalties. Instead, we found last year that people of all ages were voting along familiar battle lines of caste or religion. My escort in Bijnor was my second cousin, Prashant Mishra, known as Monty, who excused himself at the town square, saying that as a prominent Brahmin and supporter of the ruling Hindu nationalist party — the Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P. — his mere presence would discourage Dalits and Muslims from speaking openly to me.Upper castes spoke of how the B.J.P. prime minister, Narendra Modi, was defending the Hindu way of life from the growing Muslim minority and reforming a corrupt economy. Muslims and Dalits spoke of how he was destroying jobs and business, and how the party was conspiring to manipulate electronic voting machines to steal the national elections in April, when Mr. Modi is up for re-election. Underlying these theories was a weary skepticism that any party would do anything to raise living standards — meaning voters might as well pull for the politician most loyal to their own religion or caste. At the Bijnor jail, the warden, Radha Krishna Mishra, spoke proudly of modernizing the lockup, including by installing machines that bake roti. But caste politics had persisted. Asked about criticism of the B.J.P. for promoting upper-caste officials like him, he said that the previous state government had favored its supporters, mainly Muslims and Yadavs, a caste once linked to cattle herding. “Now that our government is in power, we have the good postings,” Mr. Mishra said. “That’s the way life goes.”We drove to the sugar cane fields Babuji once owned, and we found that voters there were also skeptical of economic progress and divided by faith or caste. The former caretaker, a kindly man who gave me rides to the town square on Babuji’s tractor, was now so frail, despite being only in his 60s, that his son carried him outside in a wheelbarrow. His replacement, a young Brahmin and avid B.J.P. supporter, showed us WhatsApp videos purportedly showing illicit fortunes amassed by Mr. Modi’s leading rivals. The Congress Party, once the nation’s most dominant political force, has been supplanted in many states by regional parties, each championing one of India’s thousands of castes and subcastes. In Uttar Pradesh, the B.J.P.’s main rivals are the Samajwadi Party led by Akhilesh Yadav, and the Bahujan Samaj Party led by Mayawati, a legendary Dalit who goes by one name. Mayawati had risen to power from Bijnor in the 1980s, when her supporters used to chant, “The upper-caste Brahmins, Bania and Thakurs, thrash them with shoes.”These caste bonds will be hard to break, even for a leader like Mr. Modi, India’s most powerful prime minister in decades. Once seen as an economic modernizer who rose above the caste fray, he has bent to Indian reality, trying to build his support beyond his party’s upper-caste base by playing up his family’s humble roots as tea sellers. In 2014, the B.J.P. took a majority in Parliament with just 31 percent of the vote, because the rest of the vote was scattered among hundreds of opposition parties — most of them organized around castes.This year may be different, as the opposition is more unified, fearful that Mr. Modi is becoming a Hindu nationalist strongman. In Uttar Pradesh, Mayawati and Mr. Yadav recently joined forces. Similar anti-Modi alliances are forming in other major states. Mr. Modi’s fate depends largely on how many of these alliances across caste lines come together against him.Returning to Bijnor was a stark reminder for me of the adage that Indians don’t cast their vote, they vote their caste. Those loyalties still hold beyond the ballot booth. Babuji’s sprawling mansion had remained vacant since my grandmother passed away in 2003, when my relatives fell into a classic Indian battle over who would inherit it. The Dalit party led by Mayawati had recently swooped in trying to seize the abandoned property for its own use, Monty said. He had mobilized his upper-caste allies in the local B.J.P. government to stop it. Brahmin versus Dalit, once again.Gazing wistfully at the cracking pillars and crumbling walls of our embattled family home, Monty whispered to me, “This palace was once mighty.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders berate politicians for not taking action on climate change.To the Editor:Re “Where’s Your Climate Plan, Mr. McConnell?,” by Michelle Cottle (Editorial Observer, March 27):When Senator Mitch McConnell called for a sham vote on the Green New Deal, he ignored the stark reality of climate change. The flooded residents of Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, who lack access to food, medicine and drinking water, don’t think climate change is a hoax. Nor do farmers in Nebraska, whose governor pronounced recent floods “the most widespread destruction we have ever seen in our state’s history.”What would Mr. McConnell say to residents of Paradise, Calif., whose entire community burned to the ground? Or to people in Puerto Rico, North Carolina, Houston or the Florida Panhandle, still recovering from devastating hurricanes?Perhaps he prefers to fiddle like the infamous Nero — but now it’s more than a single city on fire. Instead, it’s our fragile planet, the only one we’ve got.Liza KetchumWatertown, Mass.To the Editor:Re “Green New Deal Is Mocked, and Blocked, by the Senate” (news article, March 27):This week Republicans stuck their tongues out at leaders who are trying to work out a plan to limit the catastrophic warming of the planet. Several of these politicians then proceeded to a “$500-a-plate fund-raiser” held at “the chief lobbying group for the coal industry.”I am 37 years old and have two small children. I am not old or arrogant enough to ignore the dire warnings of the vast majority of climate scientists, who have been analyzing mountains of data for decades.Because they belong to the fossil fuel industry, these politicians will continue to roll their eyes instead of rolling up their sleeves and getting to work on climate change. We need to strengthen our democracy so we can elect more politicians who give a damn about people.Gillian Barlow GrahamPortland, Ore.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ellen Barry and Stephen CastleLONDON — British lawmakers on Thursday voted to postpone the country’s departure from the European Union but, in a rare victory for Prime Minister Theresa May, narrowly failed to wrest control of the Brexit process from her battered government.After days of turmoil, Mrs. May fended off — by just two votes — a remarkable power grab by lawmakers frustrated at months of political deadlock that has left the country in limbo with just 15 days to go before its scheduled departure from the bloc.They later voted by 412 to 202 for a motion that means that Britain will almost certainly not leave the European Union as scheduled on March 29, as Mrs. May has repeatedly promised it would.What remains unclear now is how long the delay will be. Mrs. May plans to hold a third vote on her unpopular plan for withdrawal, despite have suffered two staggering defeats on it already.If the prime minister should succeed in a third attempt, she would then request a short delay — no more than three months — from European Union leaders. That presumably would be agreed to next week at a European Union summit in Brussels.But the motion noted that should her plan go down to defeat once again, Mrs. May might have to ask European leaders for a much longer delay, with unknown consequences.The votes on Thursday were a relief for Mrs. May, whose control over the withdrawal process, or Brexit, has melted away in recent days, culminating in open defiance from members of her own cabinet in a vote on Wednesday rejecting a “no-deal” Brexit.It had long seemed possible that a cross-party consensus for a softer Brexit existed within the House of Commons, but that proved not to be the case.Some analysts said that was no great surprise.“Ultimately, these are people who have spent their careers competing against the people they now have to work with to get things passed,” said Rob Ford, a professor of politics at the University of Manchester. “They’re Labour and Tory first, and ‘Leave’ and ‘Remain’ second.“These are people who have spent their whole lives working for one tribe,” Mr. Ford added, “and the other tribe is the baddies. The other tribe is the people they went into politics to overcome. There’s a lot there to overcome, psychologically and historically.”And so lawmakers could not quite bring themselves to allow the body to test whether a majority would support a softer Brexit than Mrs. May has offered. That would mean leaving the European Union but remaining in a customs union with the bloc, or keeping even closer ties, minimizing the economic dislocation.Instead, Parliament has effectively given Mrs. May another chance to press ahead with her withdrawal agreement, most likely next Tuesday.Mrs. May and her allies are again working to win over 10 lawmakers from Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party, and a bigger group of pro-Brexit hard-liners in her own Conservative Party.The amendments came at the end of a week that has been dismal for Mrs. May.On Tuesday, Parliament rejected her plan for a second time, by a vote of 391 to 242. Then, on Wednesday, Parliament voted 312 to 308 for an amendment ruling out a disorderly no-deal Brexit, badly undercutting Mrs. May’s authority and negotiating leverage.Four amendments were tabled on Thursday, each wresting a degree of control away from Mrs. May.The amendment to take control of the process failed by 314 votes to 312. Oliver Letwin, a Conservative Party lawmaker who co-sponsored the measure, calling for nonbinding votes, told the government he and his colleagues had entered into rebellion reluctantly.“None of us who has put this forward prefer to grab the order paper,” he said, addressing one of Mrs. May’s top lieutenants in debate at the House of Commons. “None of us prefer these elaborate devices. We seek above all, and only, to ensure that the House has the opportunity to rescue our fellow citizens from a fate that both he and I wish to avoid.”Sarah Wollaston, an independent lawmaker, whose amendment supporting a second referendum failed by 334 to 85, used her medical background to argue that, “if we talk about this in strictly clinical terms,” the popular consent for Brexit had expired.“Nobody would seriously proceed on the basis of a consent form that was signed nearly three years ago,” she said. “And furthermore, for young people in this country, they face being wheeled into the operating theater for major constitutional, social and economic surgery based on a consent form that was signed by their grandparents three years ago.”Delaying Brexit can happen only with the consent of the European Union, and up until now the bloc’s position has seemed clear: Only a general election or a second Brexit referendum would justify letting Britain postpone its departure by more than a few months.But on Thursday, there were signs of flexibility when Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, said European leaders should be “open to a long extension” of Britain’s membership.The comments will give weight to Mrs. May’s threat to pro-Brexit politicians that unless they back her deal in a third vote next week, they will face a long delay. That could increase the prospects of a second referendum — and that could mean that Brexit might never happen.Already some pro-Brexit rebels have folded, including David Davis, who resigned as Brexit secretary in protest over Mrs. May’s deal, but who voted to support it on Tuesday.Though some of the hard-liners are likely to cave in, it is unlikely that all of them will. Some believe Mrs. May’s days are numbered and are sure that her successor will be a Brexit enthusiast, perhaps Boris Johnson, the former foreign secretary.Were he or someone like him in charge, they would have little to fear from a long extension of the Brexit process, some argue.One pro-Brexit legal expert, Martin Howe, argued recently in an article on the Conservative Home website, that Britain would be “much better off than under the deal” negotiated by Mrs. May. At the end of the extension, he said, Britain would be “free to leave on 1 January 2021 without being trapped in the ‘backstop’ protocol” involving the Irish border.The question then would be how many Brexit supporters would hold out against Mrs. May’s deal, and whether she could attract enough sympathizers from the opposition Labour Party to squeak her plan through.At the end of the voting on Thursday, the Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, who had ordered his lawmakers to abstain on the Wollaston amendment, stood up and called for a second vote on Brexit. That earned him a cacophony of catcalls for his head spinning about-face.Benjamin Mueller contributed reporting from London.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court heard arguments on Monday in a voting-rights case with several unusual twists, including disagreements among Virginia officials about who was entitled to represent the state.The case, a race-discrimination challenge to parts of the voting map for Virginia’s House of Delegates, was making its second appearance at the court. In 2017, the justices instructed a three-judge Federal District Court to take a fresh look at whether racial consideration had played too large a role in drawing the legislative map for the state’s House of Delegates.The case concerns 11 voting districts drawn after the 2010 census, each with at least a 55 percent population of black residents of voting age. Democratic voters in those districts sued, saying that lawmakers had run afoul of the Constitution by packing too many black voters into the districts, diminishing their voting power.The district court, which had initially upheld the districts, struck them down last year.The Supreme Court has called for very close scrutiny of a state’s action when race was shown to be the predominant reason in creating legislative districts. (Next week, the court will hear two cases on the separate and open question of whether extreme partisan gerrymandering, in which the political party in power draws maps to give an advantage to its candidates, can ever cross a constitutional line.)Marc E. Elias, a lawyer for the challengers in the Virginia case, said that “a one-size-fits-all, 55 percent racial rule” was unlawful. While minority groups must be given the chance to elect their preferred candidates, he said, a uniform statewide threshold was not appropriate.“If the state creates a 55 percent blanket rule because of how African-Americans in a rural area vote on the border of North Carolina and then generalized that to urban centers throughout the commonwealth,” he said, “then it has engaged in racial stereotyping.”Paul D. Clement, representing the House of Delegates, said 55 percent was “exactly the right number” to ensure that black voters did not lose voting power.The case, Virginia House of Delegates v. Bethune-Hill, No. 18-281, featured an unusual squabble among state officials.Toby J. Heytens, Virginia’s solicitor general, said the House was not authorized to appeal to the Supreme Court from the district court’s decision. That decision belonged to the state’s attorney general, and he had decided not to appeal, Mr. Heytens said.“What this court is essentially being asked to do,” he told the justices, “is to referee a dispute within the Virginia state government about whether Virginia should appeal that decision to this court. But Virginia law has been clear since before the Civil War that the state’s attorney general has the exclusive authority to make that sort of litigation decision.”Justice Stephen G. Breyer suggested that politics can play a role in litigation strategy. The House of Delegates is controlled by Republicans, while Virginia’s governor and attorney general are Democrats.Mr. Heytens said the court should not be quick to ascribe political motives to state officials. “Positing that elected officials who are empowered to exercise government power will make decisions that way,” he said, “is inconsistent with the presumption of good faith that this court affords to government.”Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. responded that judges were allowed to use common sense. “I haven’t seen the case,” he said, “where the Democratic legislature has challenged an alleged gerrymander because it was too favorable to Democrats or vice versa.”Morgan L. Ratner, a lawyer for the federal government, agreed that the House of Delegates did not have standing to pursue a Supreme Court appeal.“The House as an institution isn’t harmed by changes to individual district lines,” she said, “and while states can authorize legislatures to represent them in court, Virginia hasn’t done so.”Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. responded that only slight direct harm to the House might be enough to establish standing, like the need to order new stationery.Justice Elena Kagan said states could resolve for themselves the question of who will represent them in the Supreme Court. “It’s a matter of state law, really,” she said. “There are many states that have responded to this exact circumstance by allowing the legislature to proceed.”“And other states, like Virginia, that have not,” she said. “And in some sense, the question of whether somebody should be able to get to court in this partisan, divided circumstance is one that a state can decide for itself.”Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn WashingtonBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON — Members of Congress like to say that governing is not a game, but they are increasingly playing round after round of gotcha.As a watershed election looms next year and little of real significance is happening on the legislative front, lawmakers are consumed with trying to trap one another with hot-button votes that don’t have much to do with real legislative business.Whether such show votes really matter when it comes to actual voters is another issue entirely. It is hard to find a case in which an incumbent senator or representative was knocked off solely because of an ill-considered decision in a postmidnight vote-a-rama in the Senate or on a particularly devious motion to recommit in the House.“It’s unlikely that a single vote will undermine a member’s re-election chances,” said Nathan L. Gonzales, the nonpartisan political handicapper and editor and publisher of Inside Elections.Still, that is not going to stop anyone — particularly Republicans at the moment — from trying. Much of the activity on Capitol Hill these days is more akin to trolling on Twitter than tackling national priorities.For instance, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, is gleefully preparing to force Democrats to take a stand on the so-called Green New Deal resolution, which, among other things, calls for 100 percent of American energy to come from clean sources within 10 years.The nonbinding document is essentially a set of ambitious progressive goals that has zero chance of passage in a Republican-controlled Senate with Donald J. Trump as president. As legislation, it would take years to develop and push through Congress. But Republicans are itching for a vote now to get Democrats, notably the presidential contenders, on the record. They have relentlessly mocked the Green New Deal as a framework for eliminating airplane travel and cheeseburgers because of restrictions on fossil fuels and cow emissions.“We have done some wacky things on our side, but this is the wackiest thing I have ever seen,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee.Democrats call the coming Republican maneuver a cynical stunt. They have suggested they will simply vote “present” and not be recorded on the resolution — a stance that may cost them with progressives who want Democrats to have the courage of their convictions no matter how premature the vote might be.At the same time, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, has demanded that Republicans offer an alternative, an offer they seem unlikely to accept. He also wants a vote on a separate Democratic resolution that would call for immediate action on climate change. His trap is to try to either force Republicans to admit climate change is real or deny it — a result that could hurt them no matter the outcome.“When is Leader McConnell going to schedule time for consideration of this and other climate change legislation?” asked Mr. Schumer, who is newly embracing climate change as an issue that appeals to younger voters.While the Senate is playing green deal or no green deal, the House is caught up in an arcane struggle that gives the term “inside baseball” a bad name. Newly relegated to the minority, House Republicans have been tormenting the Democratic majority with what is known as a motion to recommit.It is basically one final opportunity for the minority party to amend legislation about to pass on the floor. It has been transformed by both parties over the years as minority leaders have learned to spring politically charged M.T.R.s, as they are known, on the majority at the last minute. Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago, a former member of the House Democratic leadership who cut his political teeth on House races, was one of the early adapters of a weaponized motion to recommit and considered it a form of psychological political warfare.“Obviously, they are ‘gotcha’ amendments designed to give people political problems,” said Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader. “And by the way, that’s what we did. So this is not a new, you know, invention of the Republicans.”For Democrats, the problem is that Republicans seem to be better at drafting the motions. Now some are passing with the support of nervous new Democratic lawmakers from tough districts who don’t want to be caught on the wrong side of issues such as gun sales, immigration, anti-Semitism or domestic violence. The split has incited an internal party fight and has leaders worried that the more the motions pass, the more they will be considered serious rather than procedural and lead to political problems down the road.“You have members who won by less than a percentage point, and I have sympathy for them,” said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, who oversees the Rules Committee. But he said Democrats could not allow Republicans to carry the day with their political guerrilla attacks. “We cannot legitimize their underhanded tactics. It is just to put people in a bad spot.”The Republican success has some Democrats calling for a rules change to either dilute or eliminate the motion to recommit, talk that has Republicans crying foul. They say Democrats are already retreating on their pledge to make the House more transparent and bipartisan than it was under Republican control the previous eight years.“Here we are just two months into the new Democratic majority, which was touted to be about open debate, with an issue about process,” said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, the top Republican on the Rules Committee. He called discussion of changes to the motion to recommit “an affront to the institution.”Mr. McGovern said that any consideration of changes would be part of an extensive dialogue. After spending a fair amount of time in the minority himself, he showed some reluctance to tinker with the motion to recommit no matter the potential penalty for Democrats.“I still believe the minority should be guaranteed a constructive voice in the legislative process,” Mr. McGovern said. “You can’t just shut everybody out. That is not what this place is about and shouldn’t be about.”It probably also shouldn’t be about a running game of gotcha.Follow Carl Hulse on Twitter: @hillhulse.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byEvery House Democrat voted for a broadly worded resolution condemning “hateful expressions of intolerance,” but 23 Republicans voted no. By Emily Cochrane and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House passed a resolution on Thursday that condemned anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry. The resolution, written by House Democrats, began as an implicit response to comments made by Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, that were widely deemed anti-Semitic, but when some Democrats objected to singling her out, the resolution was broadened to condemn other forms of hatred. Earlier this year, House Republicans unanimously endorsed a resolution that condemned white nationalism and white supremacy after Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, asked when the term “white supremacy” had become controversial, capping years of bigoted comments that had gone unpunished. This time, they were not so united, and some Democrats demanded to know why.Where’s the outrage over the 23 GOP members who voted NO on a resolution condemning bigotry today?Oh, there’s none?Did they get called out, raked over, ambushed in halls and relentlessly asked why not?No? Okay. Got it.Here is their answer:“The frustration on the Republican side was that they watered down the amendment,” Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican leader, said at a news conference on Friday. (Mr. McCarthy voted for the resolution; one of his top lieutenants, Representative Liz Cheney, voted against it.)“We’re here today because a member of this body issued a series of anti-Semitic statements,” Mr. Biggs said in a floor speech on Thursday. He spoke of the difference between justice and mercy, adding: “We now have a pattern and we begin to wonder how we extend mercy when justice cries out against one who is anti-Semitic. It doesn’t help that Democratic leaders have attempted to rationalize and protect this individual.”In 2016, Mr. Biggs raised eyebrows when he charged that the Jewish philanthropist George Soros was buying a local election for county attorney.Mr. Brooks said he voted against the resolution because its “failure to specifically state opposition to discrimination against Caucasian-Americans and Christians, while reflective of Socialist Democrat priorities and values is, by omission, fatal to the bill.”After Mr. Brooks said in 2016 that Muslims wanted to “kill every gay person in America,” the Alabama chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations demanded an apology.Mr. Buck, in a statement after the vote, criticized the resolution for failing “to address a problem that needed to be confronted.”“Anti-Semitism can’t be compared with any other hate speech without marginalizing the history of Jewish oppression,” he said. “I will not vote to overlook the anti-Semitism which has been covered up by the Democratic leadership.”Mr. Budd, reacting on Twitter, said that he voted against the resolution because it failed to name Ms. Omar or list her comments.The legislation, Mr. Burgess said in a statement, “does not adequately refute the anti-Semitism that has been displayed in the U.S. House of Representatives.”Perhaps the most striking “no” vote came from Ms. Cheney, the No. 3 Republican, because of her role as chairwoman of the House Republican Conference. “Today’s resolution vote was a sham put forward by Democrats to avoid condemning one of their own and denouncing vile anti-Semitism,” Ms. Cheney said in a statement after the vote. The Democrats’ resolution left the party with internal questions about where to draw the line on speech.Mr. Collins was re-elected in November even after he was indicted on a charge of insider trading. He has kept a low profile, but after his “no” vote, he took to Twitter.“After reading the final resolution I did not feel it was strong enough in support of Israel, the only true democracy in the Middle East, and that is why I voted no,” Mr. Collins said. Mr. Conaway said in a statement that House Democrats “must take bigotry of all kinds seriously, not just instances that fit their progressive liberal agenda.”“If Democrat Leaders wanted to specifically address anti-Semitism and a member of their conference who has repeatedly made anti-Semitic comments,” Mr. Crawford said on Twitter, “this resolution failed in nearly every way possible.”Mr. Duncan argued that a true condemnation would have made reference to Ms. Omar, and the comments that prompted the resolution. Mr. Duncan stirred protests in 2017 when he posted on Facebook an image of a white man labeled “Europe” with a noose around his neck watering a small tree labeled “Islam,” with one end of the noose tied around it. “Chew on this picture,” he wrote.“Jeff I know you’re not racist. Let’s put that to the side,” Bakari Sellers, a former Democratic legislator in South Carolina, tweeted in response. “But this is bigoted, ignorant and embarrassing.”In a fiery speech on the House floor on Thursday, Mr. Gohmert complained that the resolution was “watered down.” Mr. Gohmert dealt with his own accusations of anti-Semitism last year after he falsely accused Mr. Soros of collaborating with the Nazis during World War II, a popular myth on the far right. “George Soros is supposed to be Jewish, but you wouldn’t know it from the damage he’s inflicted on Israel, and the fact that he turned on fellow Jews and helped take the property that they owned,” he said on Fox Business Network.Patrick Gaspard, the president of Mr. Soros’s Open Society Foundations, sent a letter to Mr. Gohmert in December demanding an apology for the “disturbing and false anti-Semitic slur.” Mr. Soros was a child in Nazi-occupied Hungary.“Without naming the offender, the chastisement is an empty gesture,” Mr. Gosar said on Twitter. “It’s time for Democrats to take real action against these anti-Jewish remarks.” Mr. Gosar raised eyebrows after the deadly white supremacist march in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017 when he said “an Obama sympathizer” — funded by Mr. Soros — “started the rally,” then repeated the claim that Mr. Soros “turned in his own people to the Nazis.” Mr. Graves criticized the resolution in a statement as “a sham vote” that failed to directly address Ms. Omar or her remarks. Mr. King complained on Twitter that the resolution was weakened because of political correctness, and said it was a “sad day for Congress.” “Victory for hate speech!” he added. In a statement to The New York Times, Mr. LaMalfa said that the resolution — which he called a “last-minute, politically driven catchall smorgasbord” — was an “abomination to the message that should be sent on the anti-Jewish, anti-Israel rhetoric.” Mr. Massie joined his colleagues in criticizing the scope of the measure, asking on Twitter, “Now that the resolution protects just about every group on the planet, can we add ‘babies on the day of their birth’ as a protected class?”A spokeswoman for Mr. Palazzo did not respond to a request for comment. “House Democrats had the opportunity to make a strong statement against this vile bigotry by condemning hateful statements,” Mr. Rogers in a statement. “Instead, they caved to their radical socialist base and took no meaningful action.”Mr. Roy described the resolution in a statement as “a sham cover vote designed to avoid dealing with a rogue member.”In a statement, Mr. Steube said the resolution should have mentioned Ms. Omar by name and the context of her remarks. In a statement, Mr. Walker said that it was a “spineless resolution” that “provided cover to a politician spreading hatred and anti-Semitism.”“It was a very shallow vote,” Mr. Yoho said in an interview on Friday. “They did everything they could to not condemn the one that was brought out to. So I think it was just a show vote.”In a floor speech on Thursday, Mr. Zeldin asked why Ms. Omar was not named in the resolution and noted that she had not apologized for her most recent comments. (She apologized for other remarks seen as anti-Semitic.)“Why would she be more emboldened to refuse an apology altogether?” he asked in a floor speech. “I don’t believe she is naïve. I believe that she knows exactly what she is doing.”Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting. Emily Cochrane is a reporter in the Washington bureau, covering Congress. She was raised in Miami and graduated from the University of Florida.  @ESCochrane Catie Edmondson is a reporter in the Washington bureau, covering Congress.  @CatieEdmondson Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen CastleLONDON — On the eve of a critical parliamentary vote, Britain’s prime minister, Theresa May, secured new legal pledges from the European Union in a last-minute effort to rescue her unpopular plan for exiting the European Union from a second, potentially terminal, defeat.But it was unclear that the concessions agreed by the European Union negotiators would be enough to prevent another defeat of Mrs. May’s deal in Parliament on Tuesday — one that could threaten her control over the process, or even her job. The initial reaction of pro-Brexit hard-line lawmakers ranged from critical to cautiously positive.Even for Mrs. May, who has made a habit of pushing decisions to the wire, Monday night’s agreement, struck in Strasbourg, France, came at the 11th hour.[Follow our Brexit Vote live briefing for the latest updates.]It ended a day of political confusion, swirling speculation and high-wire negotiation with her European counterparts.On Monday, after a telephone call with Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission, Mrs. May flew to meet him in Strasbourg, where the European Parliament is holding a plenary session.Back in London, David Lidington, Mrs. May’s de facto deputy, told Parliament that the prime minister had won a legal pledge to reassure pro-Brexit lawmakers who fear that Britain could be trapped indefinitely inside parts of the European Union’s economic rule book.The new provisions in a “joint instrument” clarify the temporary nature of the so-called Irish “backstop” provision, which is part of the withdrawal agreement. This provision is designed to prevent a hard border being created between Ireland, which will remain in the European Union, and Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom.Tuesday’s vote is seen as a pivotal moment in the endless withdrawal ordeal, known as Brexit, coming less than three weeks before the deadline for Britain to leave the European Union.[Read more on how the UK Parliament is preparing to hold a crucial Brexit vote.]Speaking late on Monday, Mr. Lidington appealed to lawmakers to support Mrs. May’s deal, telling them the alternative was to “plunge this country into a political crisis.”If there is no agreement by March 29, Britain will depart the bloc without any deal. That could mean a brutal economic adjustment, as the terms of trade would change overnight, disrupting the flow of goods to and from the continent.In January, the prime minister’s Brexit withdrawal proposals were defeated by 230 votes in the 650-seat Parliament, one of the greatest defeats in British history.Overturning that is a formidable task. But if Mrs. May can at least limit the size of a second defeat, she might be able to kick the can down the road one last time.Under that scenario she might seek one further concession at a summit of European Union leaders on March 21, then perhaps hold a third — final — vote on her deal just before Britain’s scheduled departure, offering it as the only alternative to delaying Brexit.Lawmakers, however, are getting restive and are threatening to try to seize control of the process.Mrs. May has promised that if Parliament rejects her deal again on Tuesday, it will be offered votes on whether to leave the bloc without an agreement, something that a majority of lawmakers oppose. If they decide against that, legislators would then be allowed another vote on whether Britain should request an extension of its negotiations with Brussels.Mrs. May is increasingly trapped between warring factions of her own Conservative Party.One group is determined to prevent the prospect of a potentially chaotic “no deal” departure. But another faction wants to keep that option open in the hope that the threat of a disorderly Brexit would force a better deal out of European nations, whose economies would also suffer.On Monday rumors surfaced that, facing certain defeat, Mrs. May might use a parliamentary mechanism to wriggle out of the vote that she promised lawmakers for Tuesday. But she retreated when that provoked a backlash from some legislators. The focus then switched back to the last-minute negotiations with the European Union.For days there had been deadlock over the Irish border issue, and the hard-line Brexiteers demand for an exit clause, or a time limit.Neither of those two demands appeared to have been met by Monday night’s changes, which essentially gave more legal force to existing pledges that the backstop would be temporary.Mrs. May said in a statement that, in addition to the pledge in the “joint instrument,” there would also be a statement from both sides promising to begin work immediately to replace the backstop with alternative arrangements.And Britain would make its own unilateral declaration stating that, if the backstop were invoked, but seemed to be becoming permanent and efforts to resolve the situation reached an impasse, London would seek to extract itself from it.“Today we have secured legal changes,” Mrs. May said, “now is the time to come together, to back this improved Brexit deal, and to deliver on the instruction of the British people.”Mr. Juncker said the backstop was “an insurance policy, nothing more, nothing less.”“The intention is for it not to be used, like in every insurance policy,” he added.Whether all this satisfies critics will depend in part on the judgment of Geoffrey Cox, the attorney general, whose booming voice, theatrical style and ideological support for Brexit have won him plaudits within Conservative ranks.For concessions from the European Union to have an impact on pro-Brexit lawmakers, Mr. Cox will have to persuade them that they avert the risk that Britain might be trapped indefinitely in the backstop.A critical test will be whether he persuades 10 lawmakers from Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party who normally prop up the government but have opposed Mrs. May’s Brexit plan.If the D.U.P. can be brought on board that could persuade a number of Conservative pro-Brexit lawmakers to follow suit.Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the opposition Labour Party, said Mrs. May’s negotiations had failed. “This evening’s agreement with the European Commission does not contain anything approaching the changes Theresa May promised,” he said in a statement.Mrs. May’s strategy has been to try to whittle down opposition to her deal in Parliament, warning more pro-European critics that Britain could leave without any agreement, while telling Brexit supporters that a delay to withdrawal could mean that it never happens.But the threats seem to have had a diminishing impact. Pro-Europe lawmakers believe they have the numbers in Parliament to stop a no-deal departure.Last week one pro-Brexit legal expert, Martin Howe, argued there was nothing to fear even from a long extension of talks.In an article on the Conservative Home website, Mr. Howe argued that Britain would be “much better off than under the deal” negotiated by Mrs. May, and would be “free to leave on 1 January 2021 without being trapped in the ‘backstop’ protocol.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House voted on Tuesday to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the Mexican border, with just 13 Republicans joining Democrats to try to block his effort to divert funding to a border wall without congressional approval.House Republican leaders kept defections low after feverishly working to assuage concerns among rank-and-file members about protecting congressional powers and about the precedent that Mr. Trump could be setting for Democratic presidents to use for their own purposes.“Is your oath of office to Donald Trump or is it to the Constitution of the United States?” Speaker Nancy Pelosi asked her Republican colleagues in a speech on the floor ahead of the vote. “You cannot let him undermine your pledge to the Constitution.”The resolution of disapproval, which passed 245 to 182, must now be taken up by the Senate, where three Republicans have already declared their support, only one short of the number needed for Congress to ratify a stinging rebuke of Mr. Trump’s efforts.It remains highly unlikely that opponents will muster the votes to overturn a promised veto of the resolution. But final passage of a measure to assert Congress’s constitutional authority over spending is sure to bolster numerous lawsuits that maintain that Mr. Trump’s declaration is an unconstitutional end run around Congress’s lawful power of the purse.Many of the 13 Republicans who defected in the House were adamant in their arguments. Representative Jim Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, a veteran lawmaker who once helped manage Republican efforts to remove Bill Clinton from the White House, made it clear he supported the border wall.But, he said, “insufficient action — however frustrating it may be — is still the prerogative of the legislative branch. It is imperative that no administration, Republican or Democratic, circumvent the will of Congress.”In the Senate, where lawmakers are required to vote on the resolution in the coming weeks, those concerns persisted. Even Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader and an open supporter of the declaration, declined to offer his opinion on the legal merits.“We’re in the process of weighing that,” Mr. McConnell said when asked at a news conference on Tuesday. “I haven’t reached a total conclusion.”“You can’t blame the president for trying to use whatever tool he thinks he has to address it,” he added.More than a dozen Republicans voted with Democrats to block President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the United States border with Mexico.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]But ahead of the Senate vote, lawmakers have not said what their next steps would be if the resolution to stop the emergency declaration fails.Three Republican senators — Susan Collins of Maine, Thom Tillis of North Carolina and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — have said that they will support the resolution, and several others have expressed extreme unease. Vice President Mike Pence and a Justice Department lawyer joined Republican senators on Tuesday for a lunch on Capitol Hill to outline what they maintained was the president’s statutory authority for the declaration and need for additional money.Mr. Pence faced some frustration from senators about Mr. Trump’s decision to make the declaration and the legal grounds for doing so, particularly from Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, according to three people familiar with the exchange who asked for anonymity to describe a private meeting.When Mr. Paul argued that Mr. Pence, a former representative, would have opposed Mr. Trump’s use of an emergency declaration and compared it to President Barack Obama’s use of an executive order to establish protections for young undocumented immigrants under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, Mr. Pence objected, according to one person. He argued that there was a difference between the two uses of executive power, according to two people.A spokesman for Mr. Paul said that the senator had raised concerns, along with other senators, about the declaration in an exchange, but did not raise the comparison to DACA.Mr. McConnell acknowledged that there had been “a fulsome discussion” during the meeting, and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a close ally of the president, said he hoped that as a result of the discussion, “we will prevail.”But some senators emerged from the lunch still reluctant to say how they would vote.“Any action by the administration must comply with federal law, so I am reviewing and assessing the specific legal authorities and justifications put forth by the administration,” said Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas. “I am very worried about the slippery slope that could occur.”Some Republican lawmakers and aides said they were unconcerned because they were confident that they could prevent the two-thirds majority needed in both chambers to override a presidential veto, possibly the first delivered by Mr. Trump.“There will be nowhere near the votes to override a veto,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said Tuesday morning at a news conference. “Ultimately, we’re going to stand with the president in making sure we can secure this border.”The resolution of disapproval, under the National Emergencies Act of 1976, serves as the easiest mechanism for Congress to end Mr. Trump’s declaration. House Democrats are still weighing the possibility of joining one of the lawsuits that have been filed to challenge the merits of the declaration.Democrats, who overwhelmingly endorsed the resolution of disapproval, framed the vote as an ultimatum on whether lawmakers would buck party loyalty in order to protect Congress’s constitutionally granted powers. Ms. Pelosi, in a floor speech on Tuesday, listed a number of instances in which House Republicans had objected to Mr. Obama’s use of executive power, vowing that “we are not going to give any president, Democratic or Republican, a blank check to shred the Constitution of the United States.”Representative Joaquin Castro called the vote on the one-page resolution “the most important vote, probably in a generation, on the separation of powers.”Mr. Castro, Democrat of Texas and the author of the resolution, warned Republicans that if the president’s declaration went unchallenged, the issue would resurface.“If Congress lets this stand, if the courts let it stand, how am I to tell a future president that gun deaths that number in the tens of thousands every year in this country, or opioid deaths that number in the thousands in this country, are not an emergency?” Mr. Castro said in a brief interview. “Or climate change is not a national emergency?”“If this becomes a short circuit to get other things done,” he added, “then how is a president not expected to use that tool in the future?”The debate over the merits of Mr. Trump’s national emergency declaration has led some lawmakers to suggest that Congress should re-evaluate how much power it has shifted to the executive branch and the scope of the National Emergencies Act.“The larger issue is Congress has delegated its authority to the White House in hundreds of instances,” said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas. “I think we need to have a bigger conversation about the separation of powers and whether we want to continue to delegate all this authority to the next president.”Overruling concerns from other Republicans, Mr. Trump this month outlined his intent to use $3.6 billion from military construction projects to build his promised wall along the southwestern border. In the lunch with Mr. Pence and the Justice Department lawyer, Republican senators secured a promise that they would be notified about details of which military construction projects would be affected before they voted on the resolution, according to two people familiar with the discussion.Mr. Pence also assured senators that any money diverted from projects would most likely be replaced in the next year’s funding allocation, according to one person familiar with the discussion. While Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, later told reporters that he was confident that effort would be successful, Democratic appropriators would most likely object.House Democrats also pressed the Defense Department on Tuesday to release those details to Congress.“We fear that reprogramming funding intended for military construction projects and counterdrug activities will come at the expense of troop readiness and departmentwide efforts to address the military’s aging infrastructure,” wrote Representatives John Garamendi, Democrat of California, and Doug Lamborn, Republican of Colorado, both members of the House Armed Services Committee.Members of the House Appropriations Committee will hold a hearing on Wednesday to examine the effect of the declaration on military construction and readiness, and members of the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on Thursday in part to examine Mr. Trump’s use of powers under the National Emergencies Act.“The Congress of the United States needs to have a spine, and not lay at the feet of the president,” said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader. “That’s not what the people elected us to do.”Catie Edmondson and Annie Karni contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byFive years after a revolution, Ukrainians are less thankful for their new leaders than for the freedom to vote them out of power.By Andrew E. KramerPhotographs by Brendan HoffmanUnder a campaign billboard for President Petro O. Poroshenko declaring “there are many candidates but one president,” Ukrainians picked through the meager selection — instant coffee, canned milk, bananas — on sale at a makeshift sidewalk stand in Kiev, emblematic of the country’s economic hardship.Ukraine plans to hold an election on Sunday that will be the first genuinely contested presidential vote since street protests five years ago evolved into a revolution that deposed a widely despised, Russian-aligned leader.Ukrainians will vote in a country divided between east and west, between corruption and a desire for honest government, between struggling, ordinary people and an ultra-wealthy business oligarchy.[For more stories about the experiences and costs of war, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]Even by the standards of former Soviet societies, Ukraine is a country of chronic pain, where people suffer from the dysfunction of their leaders, losses in war, and poverty. It is also a country with living, vibrant politics.On the five-year anniversary of the uprising — known as the Maidan protests — as families tended to the graves of those killed by snipers on Maidan square in central Kiev, Ukrainians were less thankful for their new leaders than for the freedom to vote them out of power, polls showed.“What is happening in our country doesn’t suit us patriots,” said Viktor Lomonos, a 52-old civic activist who took part in the uprising.Today, Mr. Lomonos is in many ways typical of the Ukrainians who stomped and chanted on the square for months, drawing the world’s attention — only to discover, after they won, that they disliked the new leader, too.Mr. Poroshenko, a billionaire chocolate company owner, backed the protests and was easily elected president in a snap vote in 2014, just three months after the uprising. Now he has support from only about 16 percent of voters.Mr. Lomonos said that deeper connections to the European Union and NATO are the only way to guarantee Ukraine’s future. The same view animated the protests that toppled a government, but five years later, he is unimpressed with the results.“If there were no war, we would definitely revolt again, 100 percent,” Mr. Lomonos said, this time against Mr. Poroshenko.The war in eastern Ukraine looms over the election as the issue most concerning voters. Russian-backed separatists who asserted that the new leaders in Kiev were fascists revolted soon after Russia seized the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine in March 2014.Though mostly out of the news, the conflict has smoldered as a bloody stalemate. It is both a regional war and a violent expression of the broader conflict between Russia and the West, including the Kremlin’s efforts to influence Western elections.In the east, along a front that hasn’t moved in years as politicians hash out failed peace deals, soldiers live and fight in a landscape of mud and sandbags, waging an anachronistic trench war resembling the conditions of the First World War.“I felt like someone came into my home, walking with dirty boots, telling me what to do, and saying ‘we want your apartment,’” Diana Berg, a former resident of the eastern city of Donetsk, said of being driven from her home by war.Ms. Berg, one of the country’s nearly 1.5 million internally displaced people, turned personal catastrophe into a creative venture: She now leads a group, Platforma TU, that trains volunteers in street theater and other nonviolent political action.“Now I’m an activist,” she said. “We have to remind people we can be free.”For Ukrainians, said Ms. Berg, 39, “everything is political now. You can’t be apolitical.” The strong showing of opposition politicians in the presidential race and the proliferation of volunteer groups and civic organizations show “dissatisfaction with what’s happening,” she said.While the proliferation of political activism in Ukraine is positive, she said, it is a symptom of the country’s deeper fault lines and failures. “The dark side of activism is unhappiness,” she said.The war flared most recently in a naval skirmish between Russia and Ukraine over control of a strait leading to the Azov Sea. Under a treaty, the two countries share sovereignty over the sea. Once an emblem of cooperation, that treaty today has become one more issue to fight over.“I’d like to imagine that it will end, because a lot of families are waiting,” said Veronika Pugachova, 37, a history teacher whose husband is serving on the front.She worries about him, not least because her brother-in-law, also a soldier, was killed in the conflict in 2015. “I try to believe that when there’s a new government, in some way all of these issues will be dealt with,” Ms. Pugachova said.“We’re all patriots and I’m very proud of my husband,” she said. “Of course it’s hard, it’s hard to wait, because when he leaves it’s not for less than six months. Of course it’s hard. We believe in him, we support him, our whole family does.”In this election Mr. Poroshenko is seeking a second, five-year term. If no candidate wins more than 50 percent of the vote on March 31 — which polls show is very likely — an April runoff will decide the winner.Mr. Poroshenko is running on his record of overhauling the army and winning independence from Moscow for the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, saying he provided a calm harbor of faith in a turbulent country.Among the dozens of registered candidates, broad name recognition and a populist proposal to cut natural gas prices propelled Yulia V. Tymoshenko, a former prime minister, into the top tier of contenders.Younger voters and those disillusioned with traditional politicians have channeled their anger into supporting the quirky, social media-based campaign of Volodymyr Zelensky, a comedian without political experience who plays the president in a popular television show.Mr. Zelensky has appealed to eastern voters by speaking Russian in public and on his television show. But, paradoxically, Russia’s military intervention five years ago has weakened the pro-Russian bloc in Ukrainian politics. Russian-leaning politicians lost millions of voters to Russia’s annexation of Crimea and support for eastern separatism.For Mr. Poroshenko, whose backing mostly comes in the west, a deep recession eroded support for the post-revolution government.Mihailo Strashok, 72, relies on a food bank to supplement his meager pension and takes a glum view of the government’s calls for support and for sacrifice in a time of war.“We won’t sacrifice our bodies and souls” he said, “for these bandits in power.”Brendan Hoffman contributed reporting.Andrew Kramer has been a reporter based in the Moscow bureau since 2005. He was part of a team that won the 2017 Pulitzer Prize in International Reporting for a series on Russia’s covert projection of power.  @AndrewKramerNYT Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The Senate will vote Wednesday on whether to cut off American military assistance for Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen, preparing again to rebuke President Trump for his continued defense of the kingdom after the killing of the dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi.The Yemen vote sets up something of a one-two punch for senators hoping to defy the president. The second punch may land Thursday, when the Senate has the chance to give final passage to a resolution overturning the president’s declaration of a national emergency to secure funding for his border wall.Passage of the measures would prompt the first vetoes of Mr. Trump’s presidency.“The resolution we will vote on in the Senate tomorrow to end U.S. support for the Saudi-led war in Yemen is enormously important and historic,” Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, said Tuesday in a statement. “This war is both a humanitarian and a strategic disaster, and Congress has the opportunity to end it.”Supporters of the Yemen resolution have faced a long and grueling road to get the legislation onto the president’s desk. The Senate — led by the resolution’s authors, Mr. Sanders, Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, and Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut — first passed the measure 56 to 41 in December, but Paul D. Ryan, the speaker at the time, refused to take up the resolution.His successor, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, did take it up, and the House easily passed it last month. But House Democrats inadvertently derailed the process by supporting a surprise procedural motion offered by Republicans to declare the chamber’s opposition to anti-Semitism. By attaching an unrelated amendment to the Yemen resolution, the House ended its “privileged” status, which would have forced the Senate to quickly take it up and send it to Mr. Trump.Wednesday’s measure is essentially a do-over and will have to again clear the House. While it is expected to pass, it may not enjoy the same level of Republican support that it received in December, aides said.The resolution gives the Senate another opportunity to condemn a nearly four-year conflict in Yemen that has killed thousands of civilians and inflicted a devastating famine. It also underscores the simmering anger among senators even in the president’s party at his administration’s tepid response to the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, a Virginia-based columnist for The Washington Post.After first playing down his own intelligence officials’ reports that the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, was responsible for the killing, Mr. Trump then blew past a legally mandated deadline that required the White House to report to Congress whether it believed the prince was personally responsible for Mr. Khashoggi’s death.The White House sent two aides from the State and Treasury Departments last week to a closed-door briefing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to try to defuse the senators’ rising anger. But senators on the committee, hungry for either a justification for why the White House defied the congressional mandate or information about the crown prince’s role in the killing, left unimpressed.“It was a complete waste of time,” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, told reporters afterward.Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, said it was time for the Senate to act, adding that the chamber “will have to decide whether it’s going to impose its own sanctions.”But the Foreign Relations Committee, now overseen by Senator Jim Risch of Idaho, a Trump loyalist, has yet to mark up bipartisan legislation. The measure, introduced last month by Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the ranking member of the committee, and Mr. Graham, would prohibit certain arms sales to Saudi Arabia and impose sanctions on individuals supporting the Houthis in Yemen.“Seeing as the Trump administration has no intention of insisting on full accountability for Mr. Khashoggi’s murderers, it is time for Congress to step in and impose real consequences to fundamentally re-examine our relationship with the kingdom of Saudi Arabia and with the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen,” Mr. Menendez said in a statement.Mr. Risch has pledged that the panel “will not let” the killing go. But he has also suggested that both the sanctions act and the Yemen vote would be ineffective.“Saudi Arabia has engaged in acts that just are simply not acceptable. Unfortunately, as I said, we hear a lot of descriptions about the problem, but we don’t hear any answers,” he said at a hearing considering the nomination of the ambassador to Saudi Arabia. “There have been some modest suggestions that have been made, none of which would resolve the problem.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa Friedman and Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, will force Democrats on Tuesday to take a stand on the Green New Deal and its ambitious goal of conquering climate change — after a long windup designed to drive a wedge between cautious Democratic senators and the liberal activists pushing for climate action.The resolution, which pairs quick action to throttle carbon emissions and liberal job-creation programs, will fail at the hands of the Republican majority. Many, if not most, Democrats plan to vote present, arguing that the resolution up for a vote is not anything like a fully formed piece of legislation and has not even received a hearing. Stunt votes in the past by both parties have had little political impact.But Republicans say putting the Democrats on record is significant, and it is just the beginning: They intend to keep the Green New Deal in the spotlight as long as possible to paint Democrats as socialists, out of touch with American values.“It’s the gift that keeps on giving,” said Senator James M. Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican who once brought a snowball to the Senate floor in an effort to disprove climate change.Over the past several weeks a parade of Republicans have accused supporters of the Green New Deal of plotting to ban cars and cows, outlaw air travel, and criminalize milkshakes, all while spending trillions of dollars on a dubious effort to eliminate coal, oil and gas and guarantee jobs.Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, called the proposal a “utopian manifesto.” Senator John Thune of South Dakota called it a “socialist fantasy.” Representative Rob Bishop of Utah munched on a hamburger at a news conference where he mused between bites that if the Green New Deal becomes law, “I could no longer eat this type of thing,” since cattle would be eradicated.Using a price tag calculated by the conservative American Action Forum — $93 trillion over 10 years — fact sheets circulated among Republicans offer a litany of fanciful ways to use Green New Deal funds, such as filling Lake Michigan with Coca-Cola.Democrats have accused Mr. McConnell of trying to sabotage any action on climate change and pushed Republicans to come up with a plan of their own for tackling it.Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, who introduced the House version of the Green New Deal, blasted Republicans on Twitter for holding a “bluff vote” and called it a “disgrace.”Earlier this month, a handful of Democratic senators — including Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader — interrupted speeches attacking the Green New Deal with questions about their Republican colleagues’ belief in climate change.“Do you believe climate change is real?” Mr. Schumer repeatedly asked.Democrats acknowledge that Republicans have been aided by the Green New Deal’s effort to link the reduction of planet-warming pollution to controversial economic goals like employment guarantees and single-payer health care. And the resolution’s botched rollout — when a staff member issued and then quickly retracted a fact sheet that joked about how long it will take to “fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes” — also gave opponents ready-made talking points.But many question the political impact of a stunt vote. Daniel Lashof, who directs the United States operations of the World Resources Institute, a global environmental think tank, accused Republicans of a “bad-faith effort to label whatever the Democrats do as socialism.” He predicted it wouldn’t resonate beyond those already antagonistic to climate change.Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, an outspoken advocate for addressing climate change, dismissed Republican attacks on the Green New Deal as “a lot of made up calumnies.”Several Democrats said the caucus still is not unified on how to approach the vote on the Green New Deal, though most are expected to vote “present.”But Republicans say they are on to something.“At a political level, it’s clearly dividing the Democrats,” said J. Scott Jennings, a former campaign adviser to Mr. McConnell. “There are clearly Democrats who understand what a disaster this was to be rolled out the way it was, but they feel trapped by the base of their party that is demanding this sort of extremely out-of-the-mainstream stuff.”But climate change is not “extremely out of the mainstream.” Concern about climate change in the United States is the highest it has ever been. On the heels of a deadly wildfire season supercharged by climate change and a report by 13 federal agencies finding global warming poses a serious threat to the economy, Americans are more convinced than ever that emissions from tailpipes and smokestacks are having an impact on the planet.In many ways the Green New Deal, with its call to power the country entirely on wind, solar and other zero-carbon energy and ensuring the United States eliminates as much carbon pollution as it creates by about 2030, has injected a new enthusiasm for tackling the problem: Every Democratic presidential candidate has been pressed on his or her support of the plan, and it has helped propel climate change into a top-tier issue for 2020.But it also has created awkward moments for moderate Democrats. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, for example, was excoriated and mocked on “Saturday Night Live” after she told a group of visiting school children that she opposed the Green New Deal because it wasn’t practical and “there’s no way to pay for it.” Ms. Feinstein has a 90 percent lifetime rating from the League of Conservation Voters, which rates lawmakers on their environmental votes and policies, and has sponsored major climate change legislation for more than 20 years.Joseph Pinion, a Republican political consultant who advocates a carbon tax, criticized Green New Deal supporters for making it a purity test of support for to address climate change. He called the resolution “possibly the largest setback in terms of getting Republicans to the table certainly in my lifetime.”By packaging efforts to curb emissions with unrelated issues like promises of a federal job guarantee, vacation pay for all Americans and a single-payer health care system, he said the Green New Deal feeds the belief among conservatives that Democrats are using climate change as a cover to enact a broadly liberal economic agenda.“The problem with the Green New Deal is that it unifies Republicans,” Mr. Pinion said. “From your never-Trumpers to your Trump skeptics to your Trumportunists, all of these individuals are united in the idea that the policies of a Green New Deal would be disastrous for America.”But polling on the plan is strong, at least among Democrats. Data commissioned by environmental groups in early primary states found 74 percent of likely primary voters reacted favorably when presented the Green New Deal. A new Iowa poll this week reinforced that, finding 91 percent of Iowa Democrats want a candidate who supports the Green New Deal.“If anything the Green New Deal has brought energy to an issue that had gone stale,” Mr. Whitehouse said, “and as long as we can stay united and keep making progress, it will work out really well for us.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen ZraickA Florida House panel this week approved a bill that would require former felons to pay fees and fines before having their voting rights restored, prompting criticism from those who say it would undermine a new amendment that allows more than a million former felons to vote again.Supporters of the bill, approved by the Republican-controlled House Subcommittee on Criminal Justice on Tuesday, contend that it is meant merely to resolve questions over how to put Amendment 4, which voters approved in November, into practice.But voting rights advocates say the bill would unfairly punish those who are unable to pay and undermine the central objective of the amendment: ending permanent disenfranchisement.“This bill is just flying directly in the face of what two-thirds of Florida voters said very clearly,” said Sean Morales-Doyle, a lawyer at the Brennan Center for Justice in New York.Since the amendment took effect in January, it has caused some confusion. It did not apply to those convicted of murder or sexual offenses, and questions arose about which crimes should be counted in those categories.More contentious is the financial issue: Would felons be required to pay up for their sentence to be pronounced “completed?”The bill, which would also clarify the relevant offenses, passed the subcommittee by a vote of 10 to 5,  split along party lines, with the Democrats opposed.The financial question led a Democratic opponent of the bill, Representative Adam Hattersley, to label it “blatantly unconstitutional as a poll tax,” a reference to the fees used to keep African-Americans from voting in the South starting in the 1890s. (African-Americans are disproportionately affected by felony disenfranchisement, though the majority of Floridians with felony convictions are white.)Representative James Grant, a Republican and the subcommittee’s chairman, who sponsored the bill, disputed that characterization, saying it “diminishes the atrocity of what a poll tax actually was,” The Miami Herald reported. Mr. Grant did not immediately return a call for comment on Wednesday.Mr. Grant has said that the goal of the bill is to establish a uniform set of criteria to determine who is legally eligible to vote, and that the language reflects what lawyers said while explaining the ballot question language to the state’s Supreme Court.Politico reported Tuesday that the measure was expected to move easily through the House, and that the Senate was preparing its own bill containing “guidance” on how the amendment should be put into effect. Both chambers are controlled by Republicans. Gov. Ron DeSantis, also a Republican, opposed the amendment and has voiced support for legislation on its implementation.The Florida Rights Restoration Coalition, which led the fight for the amendment, said it opposed the bill because it would broaden the definition of “completion of sentence” beyond what was previously established by the state’s Clemency Board, among other concerns.“We are hopeful that improvements can be made to this bill that secure bipartisan support before it moves to the next committee,” Desmond Meade, president of the coalition, said in a statement.“Amendment 4 passed with broad support from people all over the state and from all walks of life,” he sad. “Any legislation proposed should neither limit the rights created by Amendment 4 nor infringe upon the will of Florida voters.”The matter is especially pernicious in Florida because of the state’s rigid rules on fines and fees, said Ashley Thomas, the Florida director of the nonprofit Fines and Fees Justice Center.Almost no waivers are granted to the indigent, she said. Fines and fees can rise quickly with late penalties, and can be sent to private collection agencies that add their own hefty surcharges. A 2010 report by the Brennan Center on the Florida court system’s reliance on fees noted that observers had coined a term for it: “cash register justice.”Julie Ebenstein, a lawyer with the Voting Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union, criticized the bill as “truly untethered to the text of the amendment.”“What this will do, in effect, is disenfranchise people who can’t afford to pay all of these obligations,” she said.Both the Brennan Center and the A.C.L.U. acted as consultants to the coalition in drafting Amendment 4, they said.Phil Telfeyan, executive director of the nonprofit Equal Justice Under Law, which focuses on economic discrimination, said his organization was considering filing a lawsuit challenging the Florida bill.People who have recently been released from prison often already face considerable financial challenges, having been out of the work force and having to rebuild their lives, he noted.“The Legislature is essentially punishing poverty,” Mr. Telfeyan said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House will vote on Friday on the Democrats’ signature piece of legislation, a sprawling compendium of ballot access, campaign-finance transparency and anti-corruption proposals devised to restore public trust in government.The sweeping measure — as much a campaign platform as an actual piece of legislation — is intended to show the voters who catapulted Democrats into the majority that they are following through on their campaign pledges. The bill, nearly 700 pages, aims to dismantle barriers to voting, end big money in politics and impose stricter ethics rules on federal officials.“This is about instilling the confidence of the American people in the political process, in what happens in government, that it is the people’s interests that are being served,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi said.But Republicans arguably have spent more time trying to define the bill — called the For the People Act or H.R. 1, to underscore its primacy — and tear it down than Democrats have spent trying to promote it. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, has branded it the “Democrat Politician Protection Act” in weekly speeches. The House Republican leader, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, produced his own video to define the bill.“This is a terrible proposal,” Mr. McConnell said on Wednesday. “This is a solution in search of a problem. What it really is is a bill designed to make it more likely that Democrats win more often.”Democrats are standing by their legislative handiwork. Now they have to sell it.“It’s going to become, I believe, a marker of what the Democratic brand is,” Representative John Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland and the lead sponsor of the legislation, said in an interview. “We stand for reform, we stand for democracy, we stand for cleaning up our politics.”So what is in H.R. 1?Some of the most debated provisions are intended to disclose who is paying for online political ads and financing so-called dark-money groups. The Disclose Act, part of the bill, would require super PACs and nonprofit organizations that spend money in elections to disclose the names of donors who contribute more than $10,000. Democrats say such disclosure is broadly popular with voters in both parties.“Congress cannot meaningfully address the nation’s significant challenges without first recognizing and acknowledging the undue influence of special interests in our politics,” said Representative Abigail Spanberger, Democrat of Virginia.Some of those provisions, however, have drawn criticism from both conservative and liberal groups that argue the language is overly broad and would infringe on First Amendment rights.Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the minority whip, said the legislation would turn the Federal Election Commission “into a ‘speech czar’ with the power to enforce Democrats’ vague definition of ‘campaign-related speech.’” The American Civil Liberties Union has urged members to oppose the legislation.“Communications that refer to a candidate in the context of an important public policy issue may have nothing to do with supporting or opposing that candidate’s election, and yet that speech would trigger disclosure,” the organization said in a 13-page letter laying out its concerns.The legislation would establish a six-to-one matching system for donations of up to $200 to congressional and presidential candidates who reject high-dollar contributions. That system would be funded by an additional fine on corporations found to have broken the law. Republicans call that welfare for politicians.“Make no bones about it: No matter how they try to move a shell game around, the cost will be borne as another mandatory spending program in Washington,” said Representative Rodney Davis of Illinois, the ranking Republican on the House Administration Committee.The legislation seeks to make it easier to vote. It would designate Election Day as a federal employment holiday and automatically register citizens to vote, restore voting rights to those who have served felony sentences and encourage same-day voter registration.It also would prohibit voter-roll purges, a technique employed by states to prune outdated registrations but one that voting rights advocates say has been used to disenfranchise eligible voters, especially minorities. Such purges have been subjected to court challenges in Ohio and Texas.“Voting is crucial, and I don’t give a damn how you think about it,” Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, said in a fiery hearing on the legislation. “I want to be clear: that when they look back on this moment 200 years from now, there are those of us who stood up and said, ‘We will defend the right to vote.’”Republicans have expressed concern about allowing felons to vote, although in most states, felons can regain their voting rights after they are released (as in Massachusetts and Hawaii), after they complete their parole (as in Colorado and Connecticut) or when they are no longer on parole or probation (as in New Jersey and Texas).“Not only is this dangerous, it’s unconstitutional,” Mr. McCarthy said in his video attacking the legislation.Mr. McConnell threw cold water on the proposal to make Election Day a federal holiday.“What affects turnout more than anything else is interest and competition,” he said. “We got a lot of federal holidays in America. I personally don’t see any point in having more.”The legislation also provides House Democrats with another opportunity to jab at President Trump with a series of ethics-law changes that cut to the heart of some of the controversies bedeviling Mr. Trump.It would require presidents and vice presidents, as well as candidates for the nation’s highest offices, to release at least 10 years of federal tax returns — Mr. Trump has released none — and it stipulates that inaugural committees must disclose their expenditures. Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee, which raised a record $107 million and spent lavishly, is  being investigated by prosecutors in New York.Asked whether he would support the measure that requires presidential candidates to disclose tax returns, Mr. McConnell remained impassive: “We’ll be happy to look at it.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen CastleLONDON — The prospect of Britain suffering an abrupt and potentially chaotic departure from the European Union next month receded on Tuesday when Prime Minister Theresa May agreed that Parliament should have the option to seek a delay in Britain’s exit plans.Mrs. May’s concession, in the face of a rebellion by high-ranking, pro-European members of her own party, was the latest in a long line of retreats as she has struggled to cajole the fractious Tories into supporting a revised version of the deal on withdrawal, or Brexit, that lawmakers threw out by a huge margin last month.While her move lessens significantly the risk of a potentially disastrous “no deal” Brexit by the March 29 deadline, an extension of the negotiating period will merely delay that danger by a couple of months, not end it.Nonetheless, Mrs. May’s announcement reassured currency markets, which pushed the pound higher. And it appeared to defuse the growing revolt in a Conservative Party, which is becoming increasingly jittery about the economic dangers of departing the bloc without any agreement.Her intervention came a day after the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, gave way to critics within his own Labour Party and promised to call for a second referendum on Brexit if Mrs. May did not support Labour’s alternative proposals, which she has already rejected.Mrs. May’s reversal was striking because she had insisted dozens of times in Parliament that Britain would definitely leave the European Union on schedule on March 29, though preferably with a deal. But her hand was forced by the Tory rebels, who had threatened to support an immediate vote on Wednesday for the powers to demand an extension of the Brexit talks, thereby taking control of the process from Mrs. May.In effect, Mrs. May granted them their wish to vote on an extension, but retained control of the agenda and gained two weeks’ time, until March 12, when she will bring her revised deal back to Parliament.If lawmakers then reject her deal, she says, they should have the opportunity in the next two days to vote on whether to delay Brexit for a short and limited time or to opt for a “no deal” departure — something that a large majority in Parliament opposes.Mrs. May said that Britain would “only leave without a deal on March 29 if there is explicit consent in this House for that outcome.” She added, however, that she did not favor an extension of the deadline and completely ruled out revoking Britain’s exit.The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.While the maneuvering on Tuesday enabled Mrs. May to avoid a probable defeat in Parliament on Wednesday, what it means for the future of Brexit is less clear. A postponement of the Brexit date would require the consent of all 27 other European Union governments, and they are not likely to grant any extensive delay without a sound reason.So unless Britain plans to hold a general election or another referendum, the delay is not likely to extend beyond early July, when a newly elected European Parliament is scheduled to meet.In that sense, Mrs. May’s concession is probably less substantial than it seemed at first sight. Kenneth Clarke, a former Conservative chancellor of the Exchequer, warned that Mrs. May’s new guarantee amounted to no more than “giving us a date for a new cliff edge at the end of June.”That thought may have occurred to some pro-Brexit hard-liners as well, whose reaction to Mrs. May’s shift was remarkably mild.Since her Brexit plan was rejected last month by one of the greatest margins in British history, Mrs. May has put off one vote after another, pleading for time to renegotiate the deal to make it more acceptable. But critics accuse her of running down the clock in the hope that Parliament will vote for her unpopular deal as the only way to avoid the worse fate of a cliff-edge departure.On Tuesday, Mr. Corbyn echoed that line, accusing Mrs. May of “stringing people along,” although critics say he has employed the same tactics in his glacial shift toward a second referendum on Brexit that many in his party favor. He has delayed long enough that most analysts say there is now little chance that Parliament will support the measure.For Mrs. May, her concession on Tuesday was unusual to the extent that it followed a rebellion not by the perennially troublesome right-wing pro-Brexit faction in her party, but by the more pragmatic pro-Europeans. Last week, three Conservative lawmakers quit the party to join a group of eight rebels from Labour, sitting together as an independent group.But further Conservatives, including ministers, are appalled at the damage being inflicted on the economy by the uncertainty caused by Brexit and are determined to stop an ill-prepared business sector plunging over the cliff edge next month.They had been agonizing over what to do on Wednesday when Parliament had been expected to vote on an amendment crafted by a Labour lawmaker, Yvette Cooper, and a Conservative veteran, Oliver Letwin. It aimed to prevent Britain from lurching into a possibly chaotic exit without an agreement.If it had succeeded, Mrs. May would have had until March 13 to get a Brexit deal approved. But failing that, Parliament could force her to request an extension in the withdrawal talks under Article 50 of the European Union treaty. It would have been a rare example of Parliament exerting its power by wrenching control of the Brexit process from the government.But on Tuesday Mr. Letwin welcomed Mrs. May’s announcement and wrote on Twitter that there was now “no need” for his proposed bill.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen CastleLONDON — After two crushing defeats in Parliament for her plan for Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, Prime Minister Theresa May nonetheless had high hopes of cajoling or threatening enough recalcitrant lawmakers to win approval in a third try this week.On Monday, though, the speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, stood in her way — again.His weapon? An 1844 guide to parliamentary procedure that relies on rules dating back to 1604.Mr. Bercow told the government that Parliament could not vote a third time on its plan for Brexit, as the departure from the European Union is known, unless the plan substantially differed from the one rejected last week.As the speaker, Mr. Bercow, who is officially nonpartisan, determines whether or not critical votes are taken in Parliament. And he has angered the government by using this power, it says, to try to influence the Brexit process.After the speaker announced his decision, Robert Buckland, the solicitor general, said Britain was in “a major constitutional crisis.” He speculated that the government could have the Queen “prorogue” Parliament — which means ending the current session and starting a new one, allowing a vote on the old plan.For now, the speaker’s unexpected decision makes it unlikely that another vote can be held before Mrs. May meets European Union leaders at a summit on Thursday in Brussels.She had been expected to use the occasion to request a delay to Brexit, one that she argued could be a matter of months if lawmakers had by then voted for her deal, or as long as two years if they had not.Whatever Parliament does or does not do, a delay of some duration is almost certain at this point.Mr. Bercow’s ruling is just the latest jolt to Britain on its rocky path out of the European Union, a journey that remains as unpredictable as ever, 11 days before the scheduled departure date of March 29.Mrs. May’s failure to secure another vote on her plan increases the prospects of lawmakers getting the chance to vote on alternatives, most of them involving closer ties to the bloc.But the government has not given up yet on its deal, which would, if passed, eventually give Britain power over immigration from Europe, but keep the country in the bloc’s customs and trade system until at least the end of next year.Mr. Bercow, who is famous for his braying cries of “order, order,” is almost as divisive a figure in the political world as Brexit itself.The government sees him as a partisan figure opposed to Brexit, but to supporters he is a muscular advocate of the rights of an ancient Parliament, whose rule book he invoked on Monday to deny Mrs. May her vote.Offering a history lesson on parliamentary protocol, Mr. Bercow said that according to the rules, once Parliament has voted on an issue, it can’t be brought back in the same session.He said these rules had been confirmed many times — including in 1864, 1870, 1882, 1891 and 1912 — and quoted from the authoritative guide to parliamentary procedure, called Erskine May, which is named for its author.“Indeed, Erskine May makes reference to no fewer than 12 such rulings up to the year 1920,” he said in Parliament.Mr. Bercow’s view is that the second vote was different because Mrs. May had negotiated changes to her plan with the European Union.Later, Mr. Bercow added, in answer to a question, that to be considered for a vote, any proposition would have to be different not just in wording but in substance.That appeared to rule out many of the easier fixes the government might have considered to get its deal back onto the parliamentary agenda.Mrs. May had widely been expected to hold a third “meaningful vote” on her Brexit plan on Tuesday or Wednesday, after defeats by margins of 230 votes in January, and 149 last week.Since then, Mrs. May has worked hard to win over the resistance, particularly the 10 lawmakers from Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party.Normally, they prop up the government, but they have so far rejected its Brexit deal over qualms about the so-called backstop plan to avoid a physical border with Ireland.If the Democratic Unionists come on board, many hard-line, pro-Brexit Conservative lawmakers are expected to follow suit.Mrs. May is hoping that the prospect of a long delay to Brexit, and the risk of a watered down, “soft” Brexit or no Brexit at all, will concentrate the minds of right-wingers and bring them into her fold.Mrs. May has threatened that a long delay to Brexit is also likely to force Britain to take part in the European elections in May, a particular embarrassment to politicians who insist that Britain is about to leave the bloc. But that threat has now been undercut.Mujtaba Rahman, a Europe expert who is managing director of the Eurasia Group, said Mrs. May’s meeting with the European Union has become “much more challenging” now.He said a possible vote this week, even if it had been unsuccessful, might have reduced the margin of the defeat enough to prod the bloc into more concessions and give her hope of returning to Parliament and finally winning on another vote next week.“She has a much more difficult case to make now and there is going to be much more skepticism” from the bloc in helping her out, Mr. Rahman said. “Do they want to be enabling her strategy if it is deadlocked and it looks like she is reaching the end of the road?”The setback comes after Mrs. May had been making some headway. Talks were underway with the D.U.P., and with Jacob Rees-Mogg, who leads the hard-line pro-Brexit faction in the Conservative Party. He said he would wait to see how the Northern Irish party intended to vote before he decided what to do.His softer tone had encouraged Downing Street that it was, at the very least, on track to get within touching distance of a victory. But perhaps some two dozen Brexit hard-liners were still preparing to vote against Mrs. May’s deal.They believe that, despite a vote in Parliament last week to the contrary, Britain might still leave the bloc without any agreement. So several Brexit enthusiasts welcomed Mr. Bercow’s ruling on Monday.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The Senate on Wednesday again rebuked President Trump for his continued defense of Saudi Arabia after the killing of the dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi, voting for a second time to end American military assistance for the kingdom’s war in Yemen and to curtail presidential war powers.The 54-to-46 vote, condemning a nearly four-year conflict in Yemen that has killed thousands of civilians and inflicted a devastating famine, sets the foundation for what could become Mr. Trump’s first presidential veto, with the House expected to overwhelmingly pass the measure, possibly this month. The vote also might be the opening salvo in a week where Senate Republicans have the opportunity to hit back at the president’s aggressive use of executive power. On Thursday, the chamber will vote on a resolution that would overturn Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency to secure funding for his border wall.“The United States Congress is going to reassert its constitutional responsibility over issues of war that have been abdicated for presidents, Democrats and Republicans, for too many years,” said Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont.Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, encouraged lawmakers on Wednesday to oppose the Yemen resolution, calling it “inappropriate and counterproductive” and warning them not to conflate their displeasure with the administration’s response to Mr. Khashoggi’s death with the broader issue of the conflict in Yemen. But in a show of defiance, seven Republican senators broke ranks to join the resolution: Mike Lee, of Utah; Susan Collins of Maine; Steve Daines of Montana; Jerry Moran of Kansas; Lisa Murkowski of Alaska; Rand Paul of Kentucky; and Todd Young of Indiana.Still, Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut and one of the lead backers of the Yemen resolution, warned that “we shouldn’t overstate the Republican anti-Trump renaissance,” noting that both resolutions under consideration this week had 50-vote thresholds and that Republican defections were relatively limited.Supporters of the Yemen resolution have faced a long and grueling road to get the legislation onto the president’s desk. The Senate — led by the resolution’s authors, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Murphy and Mr. Lee — first passed the measure 56 to 41 in December, but Paul D. Ryan, the House speaker at the time, refused to take up the resolution.His successor, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, did take it up, and the House easily passed it last month. But House Democrats inadvertently derailed the process by supporting a surprise procedural motion offered by Republicans to declare the chamber’s opposition to anti-Semitism. By attaching an unrelated amendment to the Yemen resolution, the House ended its “privileged” status, which would have forced the Senate to quickly take it up and send it to Mr. Trump.The vote on Wednesday was essentially a do-over, and House leadership and the Congressional Progressive Caucus, wary of a repeat derailment, are already urging Democrats to oppose any unrelated amendments that Republicans might add.The resolution is a rare use of the 1973 War Powers Act, which gave Congress the ability to compel the removal of military forces absent a formal declaration of war. Those powers, created after the Vietnam War, have almost never been used, as lawmakers have demurred from intervening in politically delicate matters of war, peace and support for the troops.The conflict in Yemen is proving to be different, and the resolution vote came as Republicans have become increasingly willing to register their unhappiness with Mr. Trump’s foreign policy. The Senate has rebuked the president on his plan to withdraw troops from Syria and Afghanistan, and the House overwhelmingly registered its opposition to his threats to pull the United States from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.But anger over the administration’s dismissive response to the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, a Virginia-based columnist for The Washington Post, has been intense and sustained.After first playing down his own intelligence officials’ reports that the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, was responsible for the killing, Mr. Trump then blew past a legally mandated deadline that required the White House to report to Congress whether it believed the prince was personally responsible for Mr. Khashoggi’s death.In an attempt to defuse rising anger on Capitol Hill, the White House sent two aides from the State and Treasury Departments last week to a closed-door briefing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. But senators on the panel were left unsatisfied, with some suggesting it was time for the full Senate to act.“The Senate will have to decide whether it’s going to impose its own sanctions,” said Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida.The Foreign Relations Committee, now overseen by Senator Jim Risch of Idaho, a Trump loyalist, however, has yet to report out bipartisan legislation introduced last month that would impose new sanctions on the kingdom. Mr. Risch condemned the passage of the resolution on Wednesday evening, calling it “a terrible message of U.S. division and lack of resolve” and a “bad precedent for using the War Powers Resolution to express political disagreements with a president.”Last month, Saudi Arabia, anxious to turn a new page after the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, appointed Princess Reema bint Bandar bin Sultan as its new ambassador to the United States. She will replace Prince Khalid bin Salman, a son of King Salman and a younger brother of the crown prince, who took the post in 2017.Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.Advertisement
Advertisement

      By ANNIE DANIEL and 
    
JASMINE C. LEE

FEB. 14, 2019

Senators voted 83-16 to pass a bill on Thursday to prevent another government shutdown and to fund border security. Here’s how every senator voted.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Elisabeth MalkinA scheduled vote in Guatemala’s Congress on amnesty for war crimes was suspended on Wednesday when several lawmakers walked out, leaving the session without a quorum.The proposal would have freed more than 30 former members of the security forces and paramilitaries convicted of human rights violations during Guatemala’s long armed conflict. The bill would also halt thousands of investigations.But it drew impassioned opposition from victims’ groups and human rights activists who rallied in front of the Congress in Guatemala City on Wednesday.International organizations and foreign governments, including the United States, called on Guatemalan legislators not to move forward with the vote. On Tuesday, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights ordered the Guatemalan Congress to withdraw the proposal.The vote could still be rescheduled for the coming weeks. By not turning up for Wednesday’s session, or by walking out, lawmakers effectively put off the decision for another day.Although the Inter-American Court has no way to enforce its order, defying the order could lead to a condemnation of Guatemala if the amnesty is approved, Fernando Travesí, the executive director of the International Center for Transitional Justice in New York, said in an email.More than 200,000 people died or disappeared during Guatemala’s 36-year armed conflict, according to a 1999 United Nations report. Many of the victims were noncombatants in Maya communities that were destroyed during the army’s scorched-earth effort to flush out leftist guerrillas.In a landmark trial, a Guatemalan court convicted former Gen. Efraín Ríos Montt, the country’s dictator in 1982-83, of genocide against the Ixil Maya. His conviction was overturned, and he was being retried when he died last year at 91.Four high-ranking former military officers were convicted last year in an emblematic case involving the detention and torture of a student in 1981 and the kidnapping and disappearance of her 14-year-old brother. Another prominent case, involving a military base where hundreds of bodies have been exhumed, is stalled in the courts.Advertisement
Advertisement

      By ANNIE DANIEL and 
    
JASMINE C. LEE

MARCH 14, 2019

Twelve Republican senators joined Democrats on Thursday to block President Trump’s declaration of an emergency on the United States border with Mexico. The Republicans included Mike Lee and Mitt Romney, both of Utah, as well as Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska.Mr. Trump is expected to veto the resolution; two-thirds of both the House and the Senate would have to vote to override the veto.Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.Note: Democratic totals include two independents who caucus with the Democrats.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byLive BriefingBy The New York Times• With just 15 days left until Britain is scheduled to leave the European Union, and no consensus on how to do it, Parliament voted on Thursday to postpone the fast-approaching departure date.• By the narrowest of margins, Prime Minister Theresa May beat back a power play by lawmakers who wanted to wrest control of the Brexit process from her. They also voted against holding a second referendum on the matter.• Parliament has twice rejected Mrs. May’s proposed withdrawal agreement by resounding margins. They hemmed her in further on Wednesday by passing a measure opposing any attempt to leave without an agreement.• Mrs. May remains in power but is seriously compromised. Many Conservatives backed the anti-no-deal motion, against her wishes, and several members of her cabinet declined to vote against it, leading to speculation she has lost control of her party and the process. She plans a third attempt at passing her preferred agreement next week.[Update: Parliament votes to delay Brexit, but not to control it.]Lawmakers voted 412 to 202 on Thursday to seek a delay in Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, a move that means the country almost certainly will not leave the bloc on schedule on March 29.The decision comes at the end of two years of tortuous negotiations over a plan for withdrawal that Prime Minister Theresa May has failed twice to push through Parliament, leaving the process in limbo with just 15 days to go.During that period Mrs. May had insisted that she would take her country out of the European Union on March 29, with or without a deal. But facing a mutiny from her own lawmakers, Mrs. May finally agreed to offer Parliament the option of seeking a delay.In practical terms, the vote today means that Mrs. May will request a postponement when she attends a meeting of European Union leaders next week in Brussels. All 27 of the other members of the bloc would need to agree to extend the exit process.Many experts say the European Union is likely to grant an extension, though how long it would last is less certain.Mrs. May has said that if Parliament can agree on a deal in the next few days, the delay need be only a short one of two to three months. But if it fails to do so, she would then be forced to request a longer extension, possibly to the end of 2020.Lawmakers made their strongest bid yet to seize control of the Brexit process from Prime Minister Theresa May, but failed by a razor-thin vote of 314 to 312.The measure would have had Parliament take a series of “indicative votes” on what it wants to see in a Brexit deal. Though the votes would not have been binding on the government or Mrs. May, who is already caught between warring factions, politically, they would have constrained her even further.But by the slimmest of margins, Mrs. May scored a rare legislative victory in this season of setbacks for her government, retaining her battered control of the government’s position in negotiations with the European Union.For Mrs. May, the trouble all along has been that even if most lawmakers support Brexit as a broad concept, they disagree vehemently on the specifics. Twice, she has brought to Parliament the agreement she reached in painstaking negotiations with the European Union, and twice lawmakers have rejected it by wide margins.Had Parliament taken control, it could have gravitated to a softer Brexit, keeping closer ties to the Continent than she called for in her plan. That would have enraged pro-Brexit hard-liners in her Conservative Party, not just lawmakers but the rank and file as well.The British Parliament on Thursday rejected a measure calling for a second referendum on Brexit, dashing — for now — some activists’ hopes that Britons would reverse themselves and vote to remain in the European Union.The amendment seemed doomed from the beginning, as the notion of a second referendum has never commanded a majority in Parliament. It was dealt a staggering blow earlier in the day, when the biggest campaigners for a public vote urged members of Parliament to vote against the measure, saying that Thursday’s focus should be solely on delaying Brexit.The Labour Party, always leery of a second referendum, quickly announced its opposition, too, though individual lawmakers walked a careful line in trying to maintain they supported a second referendum in other circumstances.“Today is not about the Labour Party saying it wouldn’t support such an amendment,” Keir Starmer, Labour’s shadow Brexit secretary, said in Parliament Thursday afternoon. “It’s about saying today’s about extension.”The measure failed on a vote of 334 to 85, with more than 200 lawmakers not voting.The selection of amendments to vote on is the task of the speaker, John Bercow, who has infuriated Brexit hard-liners by declining to schedule a vote on a measure intended to exclude the possibility of a second referendum.The collapse of discipline in Prime Minister Theresa May’s government has been so severe lately that some of her lawmakers say that the best thing she could do is to announce her departure day from Downing Street.But far from planning her resignation, Mrs. May is not yet ready to give up on her own Brexit plan, whatever Parliament does on Thursday.She has been defeated on it twice before — and badly — but it’s not impossible that she is lucky on the third time.If a key amendment passes on Thursday, lawmakers would hold quick-fire “indicative” votes on alternative Brexit plans on Wednesday. But Mrs. May would have Monday or Tuesday to pre-empt them and bring her unloved plan back to Parliament.Ardent Brexit supporters now know that Parliament is opposed to leaving without any agreement, something they would happily see. They will also worry that, if Parliament holds indicative votes on Wednesday, a consensus could emerge for a plan that keeps much closer ties to the European Union than they want.Mrs. May turned the screw on them this week by stating bluntly that, if there is no support for any deal before next week’s European Union summit, she would be forced to apply for a long delay to Brexit.That would increase the prospects of a second referendum, and could mean that Brexit might never happen.Not all hard-liners see anything to fear from a long delay, however. Some believe Mrs. May’s days are numbered, and that a more pro-Brexit successor — perhaps Boris Johnson, the former foreign secretary — would control what happened next.Delaying Brexit could only happen with the consent of the European Union, and in recent days opinion among its leaders seemed to harden. Many saw little room for further negotiations, suggesting only a general election or a second Brexit referendum would justify letting Britain postpone its departure by more than a few months.That seemed to shift on Thursday when Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, said European leaders should be “open to a long extension” of Britain’s membership.The comments will give weight to Mrs. May’s threat to pro-Brexit politicians: Unless they back her deal in a third vote next week, they face a long delay to Brexit, during which opinion might shift toward a deal keeping closer ties with the bloc, or even another referendum.Simon Coveney, Ireland’s foreign minister, suggested that even a 21-month extension was a possibility, bringing the date of Britain’s departure to the end of 2020.Prime Minister Theresa May has insisted that the possibility of a no-deal Brexit should remain an option, arguing that to remove it from her negotiating arsenal would deny her leverage in dealing with the European Union.Still, when Parliament convened on Wednesday, she supported the motion asking lawmakers to state that they were opposed to leaving the European Union on March 29 unless there was a deal in place.Parliament went one step further and voted against leaving the bloc without a deal under any circumstances, at any time — a sharp rebuke to Mrs. May.It was not the first time that members of Mrs. May’s own party have defied her, and there’s little reason to suspect that it will be the last.On Tuesday, lawmakers soundly rejected, 391 votes to 242, the deal that Mrs. May had negotiated with European Union officials, including last-minute changes intended to persuade recalcitrant, pro-Brexit lawmakers who were concerned that Britain could be subjected to some of the bloc’s economic rules indefinitely.It speaks to Mrs. May’s uphill struggle that there was a tiny silver lining in that 149-vote defeat: It was less emphatic than the first vote on the deal, in January, which lost by 230 votes, an astonishing margin in a 650-seat Parliament.British governments rarely lose significant parliamentary votes, but Mrs. May has survived several Brexit-related setbacks — and a stream of cabinet resignations — that would ordinarily spell the end of a prime minister’s tenure.Back in February, a television journalist sitting at a hotel bar in Brussels overheard Britain’s chief Brexit negotiator, Olly Robbins, talking with colleagues. The journalist picked up what he described as an “extraordinary” admission, one that flew in the face of Prime Minister Theresa May’s public promises.The plan, Mr. Robbins said, was for the government in March to present uncompromising Brexit supporters with an unpleasant choice: vote for Mrs. May’s reworked deal, or endure a significant delay to the process.The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.Britain’s political class was instantly abuzz. The foreign secretary denied there was any such plan. Mrs. May had until then insisted that Britain was leaving the European Union on March 29, and that any delay was unthinkable.Well, fast forward to today, and Mrs. May is doing exactly as Mr. Robbins predicted.President Trump has been allied with some of the most ardent proponents of a no-deal Brexit, like Nigel Farage. And supporters of Brexit have held up a trade deal with the United States as one of the prizes of a comprehensive break with the European Union.British lawmakers’ decisions in recent days have made that sort of hard Brexit — and that sort of wide-ranging trade deal — significantly less likely. On Thursday morning, Mr. Trump sounded an optimistic note on Twitter.Later, however, at an Oval Office photo session with Prime Minister Leo Varadkar of Ireland, his tone on the subject was less sunny.“I’m not going to comment on Brexit. I can tell you it’s a very complex thing that’s gong on right now,” he said, adding, “it’s tearing a lot of countries apart. And it’s a shame it has to be that way. I think we will stay right in our lane.”A kerfuffle broke out on Thursday afternoon among the ranks of advocates for a second Brexit referendum, with the Labour Party once again facing accusations of selling out the pro-European cause.The source of the tension was an amendment, to be voted on Thursday night, that says Brexit should be delayed so the country can vote again.But the biggest campaigners for a second referendum are not, it turns out, backing the amendment to hold a second referendum. And that gave Labour leaders, forever on to the fence when it comes to Brexit, all the cover they needed not to do so either.The reason, ostensibly, was that the focus on Thursday should be on delaying Brexit. Anti-Brexit campaigners want to hold off on a vote for a second referendum in Parliament until it is among the last options standing.But underlying that was the reality that a second referendum does not at the moment command a majority in Parliament, and its backers did not want it to go to a losing vote.Still, some activists wish pro-European politicians would take a page from Mrs. May’s book about the value of repeat votes. Rather than holding off until the last moment, they say, politicians should vote for a second referendum again and again until it wins.Among the curve balls thrown in the House of Commons on Wednesday was the assertion that the speaker, John Bercow, technically has the right to stop the government from bringing back the withdrawal agreement, rejected twice by large majorities, for a third vote.The legal basis for this proposition lies deep within the Parliament’s rule book, the work of an assiduous 19th-century clerk named Erskine May. On Page 397, the rule book says that motions or amendments which are “the same, in substance, as a question which has been decided during a session may not be brought forward again during that same session.”In the flurry of constitutional nerdiness that followed, it emerged that the most recent House of Commons clerk had thrown cold water on this idea back in October.“That rule is not designed to obstruct the will of the House,” said the clerk, Sir David Natzler. In other words, Mr. Bercow — a consistent champion of the rights of backbenchers — would hardly obstruct a third vote if lawmakers really wanted the chance to vote on it.“It would be ridiculous for him to apply a rule, a literal construction of a rule, if it frustrated what the House wants,” said Jack Simson Caird, a former House of Commons scholar who is a senior research fellow at the Bingham Center for the Rule of Law.The question was the subject of much debate Thursday morning, with most commentators concluding that Mr. Bercow — who opposed Brexit in the referendum, and has proved his willingness to frustrate Mrs. May’s agenda — was nonetheless unlikely to lob this particular hand grenade at her.That said, we are in strange constitutional times, with Parliament seeking a way to play a role as the countdown to Brexit reaches its last stage. “It’s totally unprecedented,” Mr. Caird said. “The system really can’t cope with what’s being demanded of it.”For more breaking news and in-depth reporting, follow @nytimesworld on Twitter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Maria Abi-Habib and Michael SchwirtzChina on Wednesday blocked a United Nations Security Council measure that would have blacklisted the Pakistani founder of Jaish-e-Mohammed, the militant group that nearly brought South Asia to the brink of war last month after one of its suicide bombers attacked Indian forces.The vote was the council’s fourth attempt to blacklist the founder, Masood Azhar, in a decade and was proposed by the United States with the support of France and Britain. Since 2009, the Indian government has tried to designate Mr. Azhar as a global terrorist for orchestrating the 2001 attack on India’s Parliament and the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks, which killed more than 160 tourists and local civilians.But every attempt has been blocked by China, which has served as a shield for Pakistan internationally as the two countries strengthen their military and economic ties.A spokesman for the Chinese mission at the United Nations did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the decision, which came during a closed Security Council meeting. When China vetoed previous attempts to list Mr. Azhar, it claimed India had not provided enough information to support the designation, a claim that New Delhi denied.As a permanent member of the Security Council, China has the authority to veto any measure. Its stance on Mr. Azhar has proved particularly frustrating to some council members.In recent weeks, as international pressure has risen over Pakistan’s ties to terror groups, Islamabad has scrambled to show it is taking action against them — closing nearly 200 religious schools and arresting dozens of individuals linked to militancy. But American and European officials say they are waiting to see if the crackdown is effective or if the militants’ infrastructure will spring back to life once international pressure on Islamabad subsides.The momentum to blacklist Mr. Azhar had gained new urgency. Last month, a suicide bomber claiming allegiance to Jaish-e-Mohammed slammed his explosives-laden vehicle into an Indian paramilitary convoy in the disputed region of Kashmir, killing 40 soldiers.India retaliated by sending fighter jets inside Pakistan for the first time in nearly five decades to hit what it claimed was a training camp belonging to Jaish-e-Mohammed. The episodes spurred fears of military escalation between the two rivals, both of which have nuclear weapons.Although Jaish-e-Mohammed has been blacklisted by the United Nations since 2001, Mr. Azhar is not specifically designated as a terrorist, allowing him to raise money for the group through front organizations inside Pakistan, according to Indian and American officials. Pakistan’s government denies that Jaish-e-Mohammed is active in Pakistan.In 2010, Mr. Azhar was blacklisted by the United States Treasury Department, which prohibits American citizens from conducting transactions with him and has frozen any assets he holds in the country.By listing Mr. Azhar at the United Nations, member states, including Pakistan, would be expected to take similar measures.Mr. Azhar founded Jaish-e-Mohammed, or the Army of Mohammed, in 2000 in Pakistan, and has used the group to funnel weapons, cash and other support to the Taliban and Al Qaeda, according to the United States. The group’s core mission is to break Kashmir off from India and merge it with Pakistan.One of the many charities Mr. Azhar operated was described by the United States Treasury Department as “one of the primary relief agencies that Al Qaeda used to move supplies” in Afghanistan.On Tuesday, the United States had signaled its weariness with China over its attempts to block Mr. Azhar’s designation.“The United States and China share a mutual interest in achieving regional stability and peace,” Robert Palladino, a State Department spokesman, said at a news conference in Washington. "A failure to designate Azhar would run counter to this goal.”An earlier version of this article misstated the country that proposed designating Masood Azhar as a terrorist. It was the United States, not France.Jeffrey Gettleman and Meher Ahmad contributed reporting.Advertisement
Advertisement

      By JASMINE C. LEE and 
    
BLACKI MIGLIOZZI

FEB. 26, 2019

More than a dozen Republicans voted with Democrats to block President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the United States border with Mexico.If the Senate also passes the bill, Mr. Trump has promised that he would veto the bill to protect his emergency declaration.Several Republicans voted to block President Trump’s emergency declaration, including Representative Will Hurd of Texas, the only Republican lawmaker to represent a district on the United States border with Mexico.Democrats would need a supermajority, or more than two-thirds of the House and Senate, in future votes to override a veto by Mr. Trump.Note: There are currently three vacancies in the House.Source: U.S. House of RepresentativesAdvertisement
Advertisement

      By ANNIE DANIEL

MARCH 7, 2019

The House passed a resolution 407-23 on Thursday condemning anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry. The measure began as a response to comments by Representative Ilhan Omar last week that pro-Israel activists were pushing “for allegiance to a foreign country.” Language that condemned other forms of hatred was eventually added as rank-and-file Democrats felt that Ms. Omar was being unfairly singled out.Every Democrat that voted approved of the measure, while 23 Republicans voted against it. Some lawmakers have asked for a resolution that exclusively rebukes anti-Semitism.Source: U.S. House of RepresentativesAdvertisement
Advertisement

      By ANNIE DANIEL and 
    
JASMINE C. LEE

FEB. 14, 2019

The Senate on Thursday confirmed William P. Barr as attorney general by a vote of 54-45. Virtually every Republican, along with three Democrats, voted to confirm Mr. Barr.Note: Democratic totals include two independents who caucus with the Democrats.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Republican leaders scrambled to keep rank-and-file members in line ahead of a House vote on Tuesday to kill President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the Mexican border, as Democrats appealed to Republicans to protect Congress’s constitutional power to control federal spending.The House’s vote on a declaration of disapproval will force Republicans to choose between the congressional prerogative over federal spending established in the Constitution and a president determined to go around the legislative branch to secure funds for a border wall that Congress has refused to grant.Many Republicans were clearly uneasy with the president’s action, but few were ready to declare their support for legislation overturning it.On Monday, Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, became the second Republican senator to say he would support the Democratic resolution.“There is no intellectual honesty in now turning around and arguing that there’s an imaginary asterisk attached to executive overreach — that it’s acceptable for my party but not thy party,” Mr. Tillis wrote in an opinion article published Monday in The Washington Post.Last week, Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said she would support a resolution, barring any extraneous additions. Other Republicans were holding their fire.“I wish it wasn’t necessary” for Mr. Trump to have declared a national emergency, said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, arguing that the issue could have been avoided if Democrats had agreed to more funding for physical border barriers.“I think it’s a shame that what should be a nonpartisan issue has turned into obviously a very partisan issue,” he added. “I’m still considering my alternatives.”The resolution is expected to sail through the House on Democratic votes, but significant Republican defections would give it momentum in the Senate and could raise the specter — however remote — that Congress could override Mr. Trump’s promised veto, should the resolution reach his desk.Democrats framed Tuesday’s vote as a referendum on protecting the separation of powers and Congress’s constitutional right to determine federal spending levels — an argument that appealed to several conservatives in both chambers.Representative Joaquin Castro, Democrat of Texas and the author of the resolution, warned Monday at a news conference that without congressional interference, Mr. Trump would “try this again on other issues,” while Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California expressed confidence that her Republican colleagues’ belief in the separation of powers would push them to support the one-page resolution.“This isn’t about the border,” she said. “This is about the Constitution of the United States.”But Democrats were also making a less lofty case to wavering Republicans. They circulated a list of all of the possible military construction projects in each district that could lose money shifted instead to Mr. Trump’s wall.Several lawsuits have already been filed to challenge the merits of the declaration, but the easiest way for Congress to counter it is through the resolution of disapproval, authorized by the National Emergencies Act of 1976. Once it passes the House, the Senate is required under the law to take it up within 18 days.On Monday, Mr. Trump trained his attention on the Senate, where only four Republican votes are needed to pass the measure, should Democrats remain united, as expected. The president warned Republicans, via Twitter, not to “fall into the Democrats ‘trap’ of Open Borders and Crime!”Several conservative senators have expressed concern that Mr. Trump’s declaration is setting a precedent that could be used by a Democratic president determined to secure funds that Congress will not give.Others have balked at the prospect of siphoning money away from military projects. Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa — who said he was “leaning no” on voting for the resolution — suggested that Congress review the power to declare national emergencies granted to the president under the National Emergencies Act.Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, called Mr. Trump’s declaration “unnecessary, unwise and inconsistent with the Constitution.” Yet he declined to say how he would vote on a resolution ending it, telling reporters, “I’m going to wait and see what the resolution says.”In the House, top Republicans were urging their members to focus on what they say is a legitimate need for border security money and the precedent set by other presidents who have declared their own national emergencies, according to one Republican aide.Only one House Republican, Representative Justin Amash of Michigan, has signed on to the resolution to block the declaration, scorning the idea that congressional Republicans who attacked President Barack Obama’s use of executive powers “now cry out for a king to usurp legislative powers.”Top Republicans, including Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the minority leader, said they were confident that there will be enough support to prevent the two-thirds majority needed to override the veto. But Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, and other members of his vote-counting team were set to lobby for votes against the resolution during a session on Monday night.Democrats’ argument was buoyed by two letters from more than 25 former Republican lawmakers and nearly 60 former senior national security officials, who appealed to Congress to end the national emergency declaration.“It has always been a Republican fundamental principle that no matter how strong our policy preferences, no matter how deep our loyalties to presidents or party leaders, in order to remain a constitutional republic, we must act within the borders of the Constitution,” wrote the former members of Congress, including Senators John C. Danforth, Chuck Hagel, Olympia J. Snowe and Richard G. Lugar, who implored Republicans to protect Congress’s constitutionally mandated power of the purse.The security officials said there is neither a “documented terrorist or national security emergency at the southern border” nor an “emergency related to violent crime.”Mr. Trump’s assertions “are rebutted not just by the public record, but by his agencies’ own official data, documents and statements,” the officials, including Madeleine Albright, the former secretary of state, and John O. Brennan, the former C.I.A. director, said in their declaration.“Under no plausible assessment of the evidence is there a national emergency today,” they wrote.“This isn’t about Trump or the wall, this is beyond that,” said former Representative Mickey Edwards, Republican of Oklahoma and the author of the letter to conservative lawmakers. “This is about the constitutional obligations of Congress and how much Congress is going to surrender those duties.”“If Congress gives up the power of deciding what money you can spend and where,” he added, “it has basically surrendered its entire constitutional obligation.”Members of the House Appropriations Committee will hold a hearing on Wednesday to examine the effect of the declaration on military construction and readiness, and members of the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on Thursday in part to examine Mr. Trump’s use of powers under the National Emergencies Act.“If we’re going to let the president, any president, on a whim declare emergencies simply because he or she can’t get their way in Congress, we have fundamentally changed the building blocks, the strong, proud building blocks that the Founding Fathers put in place,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, in a speech on the Senate floor.Katie Benner, Catie Edmondson and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.Advertisement
International video coverage from The New York Times.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — House Republicans joined Democrats on Thursday to demand that the Justice Department publicly release the full findings of the special counsel’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and the possible involvement of President Trump’s campaign.Though the resolution is nonbinding, Democrats who put it on the House floor are trying to build public pressure on Attorney General William P. Barr before the investigation’s anticipated conclusion.Far from standing in the way, Republicans joined Democrats en masse. On the 420-to-0 vote, four Republicans voted present.“This report must see the light of day, must be available to the American public for a catharsis that will allow us to start with the facts, understand what happened and begin to rebuild the faith of the American people,” said Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut and a senior member of the Intelligence Committee, which has undertaken its own Russia investigation.[Update: Mueller delivers report on Russia investigation to attorney general.] Republicans debating it on the House floor called the resolution a waste of time and said they trusted Mr. Barr. But they were unwilling to stand in its way.“I am especially concerned about what would happen if the report was not made available to Congress,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the second-ranking Republican, said in a statement. “Since the investigation began, Democrats have used it as an excuse to fund-raise, fear-monger and peddle conspiracy theories about collusion with the Russian government. Let’s bring this chapter to a close.”The four “present” votes came from two libertarians who routinely oppose such resolutions, Representatives Justin Amash of Michigan and Thomas Massie of Kentucky, and two ardent Trump loyalists, Representatives Matt Gaetz of Florida and Paul Gosar of Arizona.Mr. Gaetz said afterward that while he supported making the report public, he objected to other language in the resolution praising the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, whose team he has repeatedly attacked as partisan.Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, tried to move the resolution through the Senate later on Thursday by unanimous consent, but he was blocked by Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.Though Mr. Graham, the Senate Judiciary Committee chairman, said he supported transparency, he asked to amend the resolution to include the appointment of a new special counsel to investigate the F.B.I.’s handling of the Hillary Clinton email case and its surveillance of a former Trump adviser. Mr. Schumer rejected the request as political and beside the point, and the resolution failed.The Justice Department has given signals in recent weeks that after 22 months, Mr. Mueller is nearing completion of his work. Peter Carr, a spokesman for Mr. Mueller, offered what many viewed as fresh evidence of an imminent conclusion on Thursday when he confirmed that one of the special counsel’s top prosecutors, Andrew Weissmann, will be departing the special counsel’s office “in the near future.”The resolution — sponsored by Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee chairman, and a handful of other Democratic committee leaders — “calls for the public release of any report Special Counsel Mueller provides to the attorney general, except to the extent the public disclosure of any portion thereof is expressly prohibited by law.”Under the regulation that governs special counsels, Mr. Mueller is expected to produce a confidential report on his prosecution decisions to Mr. Barr, who will then review it and produce his own report to Congress. Thus far, Mr. Barr has demurred on just what he will release to Congress and the public, reserving the right to keep some matters secret.Democrats seized on Mr. Barr’s resistance to making specific promises about the Mueller findings during his confirmation process in the Senate. They have not let the point rest in the weeks since, with prominent Democratic chairmen and other leaders laying out their case for why all of the special counsel’s findings — including underlying evidence — ought to be shared with Congress for review.House Democrats are prepared to use subpoena power and other tools at their disposal to force the Justice Department to turn over anything Mr. Barr chooses to withhold.They argue that the Justice Department set a new precedent in the last two years when it granted Republicans, who then controlled the House, extraordinary access to hundreds of thousands of pages of sensitive investigative material related to the F.B.I.’s investigation of Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private server and the Russia investigation itself.“Last year, I directly warned department leadership that in providing these materials to Congress, they were establishing a precedent, and one they would have to live with in the future,” said Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee.Democrats also fear that the Justice Department could combine its policies against indicting a sitting president and against disclosing negative information on an investigative target who was not indicted to justify keeping secret all the information collected about Mr. Trump.“To maintain that a sitting president cannot be indicted, and then to withhold evidence of wrongdoing from Congress because the president cannot be charged, is to convert D.O.J. policy into the means for a cover-up,” Mr. Nadler said during debate over the resolution on Thursday.Though they voted for the resolution, many Republicans expressed skepticism about the wisdom and likely success of Democrats’ quest. Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee, told reporters last week that he anticipated hurdles to public disclosure in the form of classified information, information obtained through a secret grand jury process and the need to insulate continuing prosecutions stemming from the investigation.“Those are also going to be things that we are going to have to litigate,” Mr. Collins said.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byDealBookA Harvard study found that executives donate more heavily to Republicans. But the gap is surprising.By Andrew Ross SorkinThe Business Roundtable, the top lobbying organization for industry in Washington, is often characterized as a nonpartisan or bipartisan organization.It represents more than 200 large companies — from oil giants to tech sweethearts — with more than $7 trillion of revenue and more than 15 million workers of all political stripes. But nobody is truly apolitical, and in an age when we increasingly see our business leaders filling the vacuum left by our political leaders, it’s important that the public fully understand the views of these unelected leaders.So a team of researchers working with the Harvard Law School program on corporate governance set out to find the political inclinations of top executives — not just the 200 who make up the Business Roundtable, but all the executives of the S&P 1500, a stock index that covers 90 percent of the United States’ market capitalization.Rather than look at party affiliation or public statements, the researchers — Alma Cohen, Moshe Hazan, Roberto Tallarita and David Weiss — looked at the truest measure of political leanings: They followed the money.For the study, to be released Tuesday, they tracked personal political contributions for more than 3,500 chief executives that occupied the corner office anytime from 2000 to 2017. The period covers a two-term Republican presidency, a two-term Democratic presidency and the start of President Trump’s time in office — after he lost the popular vote but won the Electoral College. In other words, on the whole, voters have been pretty evenly divided between the parties in that time.But just 18.4 percent of the executives studied were designated as Democrats. The clear majority — 57.7 percent — demonstrated their affiliation through donations to the Republican Party. Indeed, 75 percent of donations from the median chief executive were directed to Republicans.To be counted a supporter of Republicans or Democrats, executives had to direct at least two-thirds of their donations to candidates affiliated with one party. More than a quarter of the executives studied gave enough to both parties to be classified as “neutral.” This was the landing spot of Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple. Despite his public support for Hillary Clinton in the last election and his backing of a number of progressive causes, he frequently gave money to candidates on both sides of the aisle.(Unfortunately, the researchers have not disclosed how they classified each executive, saying they wanted to focus on the whole, and not the parts. When I asked for an example, they provided me with Mr. Cook.)It is to be expected that leaders of large businesses side with Republicans, given the party’s platform of lower taxes and less regulation. But the overwhelming nature of the support for the G.O.P. is surprising, given the outspoken positions a number of executives have taken in recent years on social issues like climate change, guns and immigration policies.The results of this political science experiment has significant implications given how involved the business community has become in creating and influencing laws and public policy. “Especially since the Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United, which allowed corporations to make unlimited independent political expenditures, corporate political spending can substantially affect politics and policymaking,” the authors of the report wrote.The researchers dived deeper into some of the numbers to pull apart political leanings by specific industry, company size, region and even the gender of the executive. Republican chief executives clearly outnumbered Democrats in every industry, but the gap narrowed in the “business equipment” and “telecommunications” sectors, which included technology and internet companies. (Nearly half  of business equipment chief executives backed Republicans vs. 30.1 percent for Democrats, and 36.9 percent of telecom chiefs supported Republicans vs. 22.6 percent for Democrats).Gender differences may be the most surprising. The sample size of women from 2000 to 2017 represented only 2.8 percent of the chief executives (only 1.2 percent in 2000, and 4.4 percent by 2017), but the researchers found that women were nearly evenly split between giving to Republicans, giving to Democrats and giving to both.Our political discourse is as divided today as it has been any time since the Civil War. Debates are raging about income inequality, business regulations and capitalism itself — particularly among Democrats but increasingly among some Republicans.The opinions held by executives have always resonated beyond their own industries, but their importance is more pronounced today. Mr. Trump, for example, has not hesitated to equate economic policy with foreign policy. It is, then, instructive to understand the political views of our business leaders.These executives wield enormous influence over not just policy, but the inclinations of their own employees. One of the most fascinating revelations of the study was that it also looked at the conduct of the businesses themselves, and in the process discovered that disclosures of political donations were highly correlated with the political leaning of its chief executive. Political contributions by public companies do not have to be disclosed to shareholders, although some of companies do it. So the researchers looked instead at the which companies disclosed the donations to shareholders. Using an index developed by the Center for Political Accountability, the professors found that there was “a statistically significant association between having a Republican C.E.O. and a lower” disclosure score.Again, maybe that should be expected. Republicans typically argue against regulations, so the idea of voluntary disclosure might seem anathema to them. But for shareholders of all political leanings who rely on transparency and disclosure, the politics of a chief executive might be a more important factor than expected. Interestingly, “having a female C.E.O. is associated with increased transparency” about political contributions, the researchers found.The researchers opted not to conveniently classify executives for us, and perhaps that’s for the best. Political views do change over time, and depending on the candidates involved. Mr. Cook, for example, backed Mrs. Clinton and several state Democratic committees before the 2016 election. He also donated to the Republican House speaker, Paul Ryan. It’s up to you whether that affects how you vote with your dollars, of course. But now, more than ever, it’s worth knowing where the powerful figures in the business world are placing their bets. An earlier version of this article misidentified the positions of three researchers. Although the study was conducted through a Harvard Law School program, Moshe Hazan is a professor at Tel Aviv University, David Weiss is a lecturer at Tel Aviv University, and Roberto Tallarita is an associate director of the Harvard program. They are not Harvard professors.Andrew Ross Sorkin is a columnist and the founder and editor-at-large of DealBook. He is a co-anchor of CNBC’s Squawk Box and the author of “Too Big to Fail.” He is also the co-creator of the Showtime drama series Billions.  @andrewrsorkin • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie Edmondson and Charlie SavageWASHINGTON — The House voted on Wednesday to end American military assistance for Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen, a defiant and rare move to curtail presidential war powers that underscored anger with President Trump’s unflagging support for Saudi Arabia even after the killing of a Washington Post columnist, Jamal Khashoggi.The 248-to-177 vote, condemning a nearly four-year conflict in Yemen that has killed thousands of civilians and inflicted a devastating famine, will pressure the Republican-controlled Senate to respond. Eighteen Republicans — almost all of them hard-line conservatives with the Freedom Caucus — voted with the Democratic majority.Congress’s upper chamber in December passed a parallel resolution, 56 to 41, in a striking rebuke to the president and his administration’s defense of the kingdom. But that measure died with the last Congress after the House Republican leadership blocked a vote.Dozens of Democrats, however, softened the blow when they defected to a Republican amendment to allow intelligence sharing with Saudi Arabia to continue when “appropriate in the national security interest of the United States.”Senate passage of the Yemen resolution could prompt Mr. Trump to issue the first veto of his presidency, and it would come after Republicans have registered their unhappiness over other foreign policy issues, such as the president’s plan to withdraw troops from Syria and Afghanistan and his threats to pull the United States from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. On Wednesday, a bipartisan group of senators introduced new sanctions on Moscow that would require the secretary of state to submit a determination of “whether the Russian Federation meets the criteria for designation as a state sponsor of terrorism.”Democrats demanded Senate action.“This is their opportunity to send a message to the Saudis that their behavior on Khashoggi and their flagrant disregard of human rights is not consistent with the American way of doing business and not in line with American values,” Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California, the bill’s lead sponsor, said in an interview, adding that he was “relieved” that Congress finally took action on the resolution, which he first introduced in 2017.The House resolution is a rare use of the 1973 War Powers Act, which gave Congress the ability to compel the removal of military forces absent a formal declaration of war. Those powers, created in the wake of the Vietnam War, have almost never been used, as lawmakers have demurred from intervening in politically sensitive matters of war, peace and support for the troops.But the conflict in Yemen is proving to be different. Senators sponsoring their own resolution are expected to act quickly to force a vote, as lawmakers in both parties fume over how the administration has responded to Saudi Arabia’s role in the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, who was based in Virginia. Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut and one of the sponsors, said he anticipated a vote “within the next 30 days.”The White House pre-emptively threatened to block the resolution over the weekend, with administration officials arguing in a statement of administration policy that “the premise of the joint resolution is flawed” because the United States has provided only “limited support to member countries of the Saudi-led coalition” in Yemen.Senate aides involved in the resolution say they are optimistic that it will pass, though it is unclear whether it will garner the same level of support among Republicans that it did in December. Some Republicans, mindful of an embarrassing veto showdown with Mr. Trump, are looking for other ways to show their dissatisfaction.Members of Congress expressed fresh outrage last weekend after the White House declined on Friday to meet a legally mandated deadline to report whether the administration believed Saudi Arabia’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, was personally responsible for Mr. Khashoggi’s death, as the C.I.A. has concluded.In a letter sent to Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the ranking Democrat on the Committee on Foreign Relations, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo praised the administration’s “dedication to promoting accountability” in placing sanctions on 17 Saudis for their involvement in Mr. Khashoggi’s killing, and pledged to continue to “impose tangible and significant consequences.” The day before, The New York Times reported that the crown prince told an aide in 2017 he would use “a bullet” on Mr. Khashoggi if he did not end his criticism of the government.The response drew widespread condemnation from members of Mr. Trump’s own party.“Everyone involved in this gruesome crime must be identified and held accountable,” said Representative Michael McCaul of Texas, the ranking Republican on the Committee on Foreign Affairs. “When the United States fails to lead, we compromise our integrity and abandon those pursuing justice around the world.”Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, told reporters on Tuesday that “the sooner the White House gets there the better,” adding: “I don’t know what’s taking so long. I think it’s pretty obvious the crown prince had to be involved in this.”Mr. Trump did find a vote of confidence from Senator Jim Risch of Idaho, the new chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, who has cooled what was once a hotbed of dissent over the Trump administration’s foreign policies. Mr. Risch broke from his colleagues to express satisfaction at the administration’s response, telling reporters on Tuesday that “the administration has been very forthcoming, the State Department has been very forthcoming.”Indignation at the administration’s response to the killing led seven Senate Republicans to break with their party in December and back a Yemen resolution drafted by Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, and Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah.This time around, with the Democrats controlling the House, some of those dissenters are seeking ways to hold the Saudi government accountable without invoking the War Powers Act. Mr. Menendez and Senator Todd Young, Republican of Indiana, introduced legislation last week that would impose broader sanctions on the Saudi government, including a ban on American refueling of Saudi coalition aircraft in Yemen, without calling for a removal of military support.Some senators frustrated with the administration’s response have refused to back the resolution, arguing that the invocation of the War Powers Resolution must be evaluated independently from their discontent with the White House.“I think that’s separate — it has to be, from a point of pragmatism — from Mr. Khashoggi and his murder,” Mr. Rubio, who will not support the measure, said on Tuesday.The House enacted the War Powers Resolution by overriding President Richard M. Nixon’s veto. The resolution grew out of frustration that Congress’s role in deciding when the country would go to war had eroded during the first decades of the Cold War, when presidents of both parties began dispatching troops into combat, including the Korean War, without lawmakers’ permission.Among other things, the War Powers Resolution says presidents may unilaterally deploy troops into combat situations only if the United States has been attacked, and it created a mechanism for Congress to direct a deployment’s immediate termination. The House measure says that American military assistance to the Saudi-led coalition counts as a deployment into unauthorized hostilities under the War Powers Act and must end.Unlike many recent disputes over presidential war powers — such as the legal basis for the Obama and Trump administrations’ war against the Islamic State — the current debate does not turn on how far the executive branch may stretch the 2001 and 2002 authorizations to use military force against Al Qaeda and Iraq. The Houthi rebel forces in Yemen have no connection to those two conflicts.The Trump administration, however, has said that it can rely on congressional authority from other statutes, including one that permits the Pentagon to provide logistical assistance to allies, as a basis for its help to the Saudi-led coalition.The White House also argues that the assistance the United States is providing — intelligence sharing for targeting purposes, logistics support and, until recently, aerial refueling — falls short of a deployment into the sort of hostilities that is covered by the War Powers Resolution.The White House has suggested that it could be an unconstitutional encroachment on Mr. Trump’s powers as commander in chief for Congress to override his judgment and try to terminate the mission.Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensIt seemed like a straightforward question: Should Houston firefighters be paid the same as the city’s police officers? Almost 60 percent of voters said yes.But now, four months after that vote in November, the mayor of Houston is threatening to lay off up to 400 firefighters to pay for the raises mandated by the ballot measure.The fight over the citizen-driven charter amendment, known as Proposition B, has exploded into what one expert called a “blood feud” between the mayor, Sylvester Turner, and the union for one of the nation’s largest fire departments, for which the proposed cut would mean about a 10 percent reduction in staff.Beyond Houston, the situation offers a stark example of the perils of ballot initiatives while providing fuel for employers who warn that higher pay will lead to job cuts.“You’ve got well-intentioned voters who wanted to give the firefighters a raise, and now you’ve got a crisis of how to pay for it,” Brandon Rottinghaus, a professor of political science at the University of Houston, said Monday. “Voters knew part of the story but maybe not the full story. You cannot describe the impact legally or financially in the space available on the ballot.”In a letter to Houstonians this month, Mr. Turner said that because no funding source was included in Proposition B and the city is required to balance its books by June 30 of each year, officials had been left with three options: Push the raise through and cut elsewhere; challenge the measure in state court; or negotiate with the union to phase in raises over multiple years. “As mayor, I have made sure the city is pursuing all three paths,” Mr. Turner said.Raising taxes isn’t an option, either. The mayor’s office has said the city cannot fund the pay increase that way because voters imposed an annual cap on tax revenue in 2004. Officials have estimated that the pay increase brought on by the ballot measure would amount to a 29 percent raise on average that would cost the city at least $100 million per year. Firefighters previously rejected a 4 percent raise and a 9.5 percent raise over three years, a spokesman for the mayor’s office said Monday.“We love and respect our firefighters and want them to be appropriately compensated,” the mayor’s letter said. “Having said that, I don’t believe the voters intended to place our city in financial turmoil, cause our credit rating to tumble and increase the costs of city debt.”The firefighters’ union, the Houston Professional Fire Fighters Association, Local 341, has called the mayor “vindictive” and questioned why, in recent years, the city has spent large sums of money on raises for the police, apparently with less concern about the budget. The union says it believes that firefighters hired after 2015 would be vulnerable to the proposed cuts, and that about a quarter of the city’s fire stations would be closed or have insufficient staffing as a result.“Mayor Sylvester Turner’s hatred of firefighters and defiance of Prop B voters will have terrible consequences for us and for the public,” the union said in a statement on Facebook. “He’s willing to destroy public safety in Houston to punish firefighter families. Houston is about to have a fire department that is below national safety standards. A world-class fire department is being destroyed from within by third-rate politicians.”One councilman, Dwight Boykins, has proposed a monthly garbage fee aimed at raising revenue that could reduce the number of layoffs, his chief of staff said. Professor Rottinghaus said there were indeed ways the city could come up with the money without raising taxes, but he noted that Mr. Turner is up for re-election and that in general, Houston residents already feel overtaxed.It is possible that the mayor’s decision to target the fire department with cuts is retaliatory, Professor Rottinghaus said. But regardless, he said, Proposition B presents “a potential fiscal nightmare” and “will lead to belt tightening across the city.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Monica DaveyCHICAGO — The glitz of downtown, the influx of tech jobs, the tourist dollars pouring into city coffers: None of those things are keeping many in Chicago’s black neighborhoods from loading their belongings into car trunks and moving vans and seeking better lives someplace else.As Chicagoans go to the polls on Tuesday to choose a new mayor in one of the most wide-open elections the nation’s third-largest city has experienced in generations, many African-Americans have cast their votes another way. They have moved out.Downtown Chicago is booming, its skyline dotted with construction cranes. Yet residents only a few miles to the south and west still wrestle with entrenched gang violence, miserable job prospects and shuttered schools — some of the still-being-identified forces, experts say, that are pushing black Chicagoans to pack up and get out.[The latest from Chicago as the votes are counted on Election Day.]Of the nation’s largest five cities, only Chicago saw its population decline in 2017, the third year in a row. Over all, the drops in this city of 2.7 million residents are only slight. But the trend is alarming to city leaders, and demographers say it reveals a larger truth: Black residents are leaving by the thousands each year even as new white residents flow in.The Rev. Ira Acree said members of his West Side congregation have begun approaching him in growing numbers to say goodbye; last fall, he said, his own daughter moved away to Texas. “It’s like, where does this end?” Mr. Acree said. “For our community, it’s a state of emergency.”[A look at some of the candidates most likely to become Chicago’s mayor.]Chicago stands at a pivotal crossroads, and with Mayor Rahm Emanuel’s decision not to seek a third term, its next leader must contend with a longstanding sense of division between a prosperous economic core and forgotten neighborhoods.“People are frustrated and they’re saying, ‘We’ve just had enough. No more mayors for the 1 percent. This city belongs to all of us, not just the people who live in the Gold Coast,’” Sharon Fairley, a former federal prosecutor who also led an agency that oversees Chicago police, said of the hurdles facing the next mayor. “The biggest challenge that anyone coming into this position now is facing is generating a feeling of inclusiveness.”At the same time, other challenges loom large. Residents say they are weary from years of tax hikes and fee increases, but the new mayor will need to come up with another $1 billion in the next four years to continue pulling the city out of a pension crisis, a process for which Mr. Emanuel has been credited with shepherding.Crime and violence remain persistent problems even as the city wrestles with a history of troubled relations between its police force and its residents — problems that reached an apex during Mr. Emanuel’s turbulent eight years in office.“There’s a set of crises that need to be addressed simultaneously when each one of them, alone, is a bear,” said Representative Jesús G. García, a Democrat who forced Mr. Emanuel into a runoff for mayor in 2015 before running for the House last fall. “There’s so much on the line for the city of Chicago. The next four years are going to be a very, very critical time. It could be a turning point, for the better or for the worse.”Chicago is accustomed to elections in which the outcome is all but certain before the first vote is cast. But this time, there’s a blur of 14 candidates who want to be mayor and no clear favorite. It’s only the fourth time in a century that an incumbent isn’t on the ballot and in at least one of those elections, eight years ago, the winner, Mr. Emanuel, seemed preordained.A who’s who of Chicago politics has stepped forward and Chicago seems, mainly, confused. Polls show no one near the 50 percent mark needed to avoid a second election — a runoff is expected in April — and lots of Chicagoans said they were undecided with only days to go.“No one has really captured the imagination of the city,” said David Axelrod, a longtime Chicagoan and political strategist. “It is generating kind of a ho-hum from voters, but this is an election of real consequence.”In a contest that is technically nonpartisan, though Democrats reliably win, there’s a Daley, the brother and son of  famed mayors who ran this place for 43 of the last 63 years.There’s a county board president with strong union backing.There’s a New York native who was hired (and later fired) by Mr. Emanuel to lead the Chicago Police Department; a former leader of the Chicago public schools; a community activist endorsed by Chance the Rapper; and on and on.The odd and chaotic campaign has played out amid a more standard plot for this city: A corruption scandal is simultaneously unfolding at City Hall, a place all too familiar with corruption scandals. That has left many of the candidates rushing to distance themselves from Chicago’s most powerful alderman, Ed Burke, who was charged last month with a federal crime and whose wiretapped phones have become a topic of wonder and worry on the campaign trail.The past months have been a marathon of forums, some with the whole crowd of mayoral candidates crushed onto a single stage. Some political analysts wonder whether the result may be truly surprising, propelling some unlikely, low-vote candidate into a runoff election to run Chicago by virtue of happenstance and the spreading of the city’s 1.5 million registered voters across so many candidates. Chicago’s population is split approximately into thirds — white, black and Latino.Mr. Emanuel, who stunned the city in September when he announced that the mayor’s office “is not a job for a lifetime” and that he would not run again, has steered clear of weighing in publicly on the race.Before his announcement, he was facing a wide field of people who said they would challenge him, as well as criticism over a tenure that included conflicts over police conduct, street violence and the closings of schools on the city’s South and West Sides. And Mr. Emanuel’s policies have remained a focal point for criticism from some who now hope to succeed him.Mr. Emanuel has been credited by fiscal experts with pressing to solve some of the city’s most troubling financial woes, in part by raising taxes and fees. For years, the problem of the city’s underfunded pension systems has loomed, and fallout from that became clear when Moody’s Investors Service in 2015 downgraded the city’s rating to junk status. His administration put all four of the city’s pension funds on a route to stability, fiscal experts said, but the next mayor will need to find additional revenue by 2023, when the city’s mandatory annual contribution jumps by $1 billion.“There’s been an overreliance on property taxes,” said Michele Smith, an alderman representing a ward that includes the well-to-do Lincoln Park neighborhood, on the city’s North Side.Laurence Msall, the president of the Civic Federation, a watchdog group, said the incoming mayor faced a conundrum. Earlier mayors had already “tapped out every recognizable commodity,” he said, leaving the next mayor with few places to turn for new sources of revenue and, it seems, with little patience from the public.All along the campaign trail, candidates have been asked to come up with a solution to Chicago’s intransigent problem with violence, an issue that Mr. Emanuel wrestled with throughout his tenure. Shootings and homicides have dropped some over the last few years from the city’s most vexing period, but, with more than 550 homicides in 2018, Chicago had far more killings than in the nation’s two larger cities, New York and Los Angeles.“There are so many layers to this violence now,” said Cleopatra Cowley, the mother of Hadiya Pendleton, a high school student who was fatally shot in a South Side park only days after performing at festivities for President Barack Obama’s inauguration to a second term in 2013.All the while, tensions between residents, particularly in African-American neighborhoods on the West and South Sides, and the Chicago police have mounted. Few events defined Mr. Emanuel’s time as mayor more than the months of outrage that followed the shooting of a black teenager, Laquan McDonald, by a white police officer, Jason Van Dyke, and the eventual release of a police video that showed Officer Van Dyke firing into Laquan 16 times.As a result of the case, a new mayor will arrive as Chicago is under the terms of a consent decree, requiring a negotiated overhaul of the troubled Police Department.“The next mayor is going to be scrutinized for how they deal with the police department and how they deal with the communities,” said Ja’Mal Green, a community organizer on the South Side. “Many people are going to expect the next mayor to come in and move things quicker.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House this week is set to pass the first major gun control legislation in over two decades, with Democratic lawmakers expected to approve two measures strengthening background checks for all firearms sales.The last time the House put high-profile legislation expanding gun control laws to a vote was in 1994, when it passed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban and made it illegal to manufacture a number of semiautomatic weapons for civilian use. That legislation expired after a decade and was not renewed by a Republican-controlled Congress.But riding a new wave of urgency after a series of mass shootings — and the activism inspired by the school massacre in Parkland, Fla., last February in which 17 students and teachers were killed — House Democrats have pledged to take meaningful action on the issue, beginning with the twin bills.Here’s what you need to know about the measures and their odds in the Senate.The Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which the House will take up on Wednesday, requires universal background checks, closing a loophole for buyers at gun shows and online. The legislation, sponsored by Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, also prohibits firearms transfers by a person who is not a licensed dealer. There are a number of exceptions, though, such as a family member giving a firearm as a gift, or lending a gun to someone in imminent danger.The second piece of legislation, the Enhanced Background Checks Act, will be voted on Thursday. Sponsored by Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip, the bill seeks to extend the initial background check review period to 10 days from three.Under federal law, the F.B.I. has three business days to perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If it is unable to do so, on the fourth day, the customer can return to the dealer and buy a gun. That loophole allowed Dylann S. Roof, the man who killed nine people at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, to purchase a .45-caliber handgun even though he had previously admitted to drug possession, which should have barred him from legally obtaining the weapon.A vast majority of guns used in 19 recent mass shootings — including those in Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; and Las Vegas — were bought legally and after the gunman passed a federal background check. At least nine attackers had criminal histories or documented mental health problems that did not prevent them from obtaining their weapons.“The new gun control restrictions currently being considered by the Democratic majority in H.R. 8 would not have prevented my shooting,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said of the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. Mr. Scalise was gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team while they were practicing in Virginia.But gun control advocates have praised the measures as a meaningful step toward change, and described the legislation as a necessary foundation for future work. Last year, the existing background check system identified and denied 88,000 gun sales to prohibited buyers including criminals and domestic abusers, according to Mr. Thompson’s office — but those same people are currently able to make purchases at gun shows or online.“We have fairly weak gun laws and we have loopholes that make it easy to have the levels of gun violence that we have right now, and we certainly have to do more to address it,” said Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “But it is a critical first step.”The bills introduced by House Democrats closely mirror the last major attempt in the Senate to pass a gun control measure. Efforts led by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, to require background checks at gun shows and online failed in the Democratic-led Senate in 2013 and again in the Republican-led Senate in 2015.Otherwise, in the last two decades, most firearms legislation taken up by Congress has aimed to relax gun laws, such as attempts in the House and Senate to pass a concealed-carry reciprocity law allowing a person permitted to carry a concealed weapon in one state to carry it in every state.Despite the praise the legislation has received, it faces dim prospects in the Republican-controlled Senate. Only two Republicans who backed the Toomey-Manchin legislation — Mr. Toomey and Senator Susan Collins of Maine — are still serving in the chamber. And Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 2 Republican, said on Tuesday that the Senate would not take up the bills.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jeffrey Gettleman and Hari KumarPRAYAGRAJ, India — Every six years, tens of millions of Hindus pour into the northern Indian city of Prayagraj to take a holy dip in the Ganges River. The festival is called the Kumbh Mela, and in its different forms it is consistently the biggest gathering of humanity on the planet.This year, it also coincides with national elections, an opportunity that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his allies have eagerly seized.They have turned this Kumbh, which is technically only a half Kumbh (more on that later), into the biggest, most lavish and most expensive in Indian history, using it to please their political base and deflect from their growing troubles.ChinaPak.New DelhiNEpaluttarpradeshPrayagrajGanges RiverIndiaMumbai200 milesBy The New York TimesIt is nearly impossible to take 20 steps along the pilgrimage route without passing a huge sign featuring Mr. Modi’s face or the grinning visage of his close ally, Yogi Adityanath, the monk turned chief minister of this state, Uttar Pradesh. They aren’t technically campaign ads, but billboard after billboard trumpets their accomplishments in all areas of life.Here’s Mr. Modi on a super-bright video screen talking about his Clean India campaign, the bluish glow lighting up countless pilgrims sleeping on the ground. There’s Mr. Adityanath grinning from the side of a water truck, welcoming visitors — an estimated 35 million of them on Monday alone.In India, politics and religion are often inseparable, especially with Mr. Modi’s Hindu nationalist bloc, the Bharatiya Janata Party, in control. He and Mr. Adityanath, who is considered even further to the right, have expanded this Kumbh into a $600 million affair that brought nine new highway flyovers, 22 pontoon bridges, 150 miles of roads, 20,000 trash cans, 40,000 LED lights, 122,500 toilets and one new airport terminal.The timing is a gift. National elections are expected in April or May, and in recent months, Mr. Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., have come under withering fire for troubling weaknesses in India’s economy and for allegations that Mr. Modi tried to suppress data showing India’s unemployment rate soaring to a 45-year high.But at the Kumbh, most everybody is Hindu and most seem perfectly happy benefiting from the state sponsorship of their religion, even as other communities are suffering out of sight.For example, months ago, to ensure the Ganges was as clean as possible for the busloads, trainloads and masses of Hindus coming for their spiritual immersion, Mr. Adityanath went after the tanneries that line the Ganges upstream from Prayagraj.The tannery business is dominated by India’s Muslim minority and lower-caste Hindus who do not subscribe to the same strict rules about cows that some conservative Hindus follow. But conservative Hindus are the B.J.P.’s base, and Mr. Adityanath ordered the tanneries closed for three months, the longest anyone can remember.Some tannery owners even went to court, but they were effectively shut down. Now, as tens of millions of Hindus celebrate the Kumbh, countless Muslims and lower-caste tannery employees are out of work.“This is done purposely just to hurt one segment of society, the Muslim community,’’ said Taj Alam, vice president of the Uttar Pradesh Leather Industry Association.Mr. Adityanath is a powerful figure in India, perhaps second only to Mr. Modi. His job is a big one: Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, contains 230 million people; it would be the fifth-largest country in the world.Once the commander of a brawny Hindu youth brigade, Mr. Adityanath is also one of India’s most divisive politicians. He is on record making derogatory statements about Muslims and saying he was ready for religious war.He is also fiercely disciplined, and so is this year’s Kumbh. According to Kumbh regulars, this year’s festival is much cleaner and better organized than previous festivals, and many pilgrims gave Mr. Adityanath credit. The traffic flows more smoothly. There are no beggars in sight (police officers said they had been banned). There isn’t even much litter — street cleaners seem to sweep up the empty water bottles and snack wrappers the instant they are dropped.There are even riverside changing rooms — a first — so pilgrims, especially women, can have a little privacy.“This is the best Kumbh yet,” said Brijlal Mishra, who sells solar panels in Mumbai, about 750 miles away. Mr. Mishra did not have an issue with the government’s spending spree.“They are helping us in our faith,” he said.Opposition leaders, however, have cried foul, saying the state should not help one religion to the exclusion of others.“We are a secular state, and we should remain secular,” said Sudhindra Bhadoria, a spokesman for the Bahujan Samaj Party, one of India’s bigger second-tier political parties. “Why are they spending taxpayers’ money like this?”It is not unusual for state governments to assist pilgrims. This year, the government of Madhya Pradesh, which is run by the Congress Party, a rival to the B.J.P., is covering nearly $1 million in travel costs so that thousands of pilgrims in that state can celebrate the Kumbh. But critics of the B.J.P. say this is nothing compared with the spending of B.J.P.-led governments, such as the one run by Mr. Adityanath.Officially, Mr. Adityanath’s administrators have rejected accusations of misusing state resources or playing politics with the Kumbh. But privately, several called the display of largess a waste.Case in point is an enormous, festively painted plywood Kumbh Mela assembly hall that is closed most of the time. A peek through the door revealed a fantastically large space, home to 10,000 brand-new empty plastic chairs.The Kumbh Mela is one of the holiest events on the Hindu calendar, its date determined by astrology, its auspiciousness derived from a certain line up of Jupiter, the moon and the sun. It is celebrated in four different Indian cities, each on their own 12-year Kumbh cycle, and it usually lasts several weeks.The name Kumbh Mela comes from the Sanskrit word, kumbha, for pot or water pitcher, and mela, meaning festival. In a cherished myth, a Hindu god was carrying the nectar of immortality in a khumba and spilled drops in four different places — the four cities where the Kumbh is held.But this year’s festival in Prayagraj, which started in January and runs until early March, is not even a full Kumbh — it is considered a half Kumbh. The half Kumbh tradition started years ago when Hindu holy men would meet every six years, halfway between the full Kumbhs, to keep their dialogue going.But a few months ago, Mr. Adityanath declared that there is nothing incomplete in Hinduism, and the word half “doesn’t gel with this philosophy.” So, with a stroke of his pen, he upgraded the celebration of this half Kumbh into that of a full Kumbh and went on to spend three times as much as on Prayagraj’s last full Kumbh in 2013.He also recently led his cabinet of about 25 ministers in a ritual bath in the Ganges, which, longtime Kumbh watchers said, had never happened before.At the Kumbh, it’s all about the dip. In Prayagraj, during this festival, Hindus believe it is auspicious to immerse themselves at a specific point where the Ganges joins two other rivers, the Sarasvati (a mystical one) and the Yamuna (a real one). But actually getting into the water is easier said than done.It is nearly impossible to strip down in a packed crowd with just a few inches between you and the next person, no place to put your stuff and an undulating wall of a million human beings at your back.But somehow people managed, and on Monday morning shortly after dawn, legions of men splashed into the Ganges in their underwear; women wrapped themselves in shawls or just stepped into the water fully clothed. They dunked themselves and chanted.Many pilgrims believe the water will wash away their sins.Just a few yards from the riverbanks, Mr. Modi appeared, again. This time, he took the form of a high quality cardboard cutout, so sharp and lifelike you could count the curly gray hairs on his forearms. For a second, it almost looked like the prime minister was personally watching over his fellow Indians as they plunged into the river.The noise at the riverfront (and all along the pilgrimage route) was deafening. Police officers blasted earsplitting whistles at anyone who lingered too long in the water; “Sri Ram, Sri Ram,” a Hindu chant, blared from loud speakers; train horns blew in the distance, constantly.Over a public address system, the authorities broadcast the cries of despondent children who had been separated from their parents in the hope that someone in that gigantic multitude would recognize their voice. (“Papa! Papa!” one pleaded.)The smell of burning popcorn and woody incense cut through the other smells of damp clothes, sweat and dust.The Ganges was cold and dark, the crowds oceanic, the din ceaseless. But no one was complaining. No matter that people had traveled for days, walked for miles, slept on the ground, and ate little, all for a few minutes in the river. They emerged with goose bumps on their arms and joy on their faces.“It feels wonderful,” said Ashok Bhatt, a pilgrim who once lived in Tallahassee, Fla.Daswanti Patel, an impoverished farmer, came from a village a couple hours away in a wagon pulled by a tractor. She was stunned by all the Kumbh bling — the piercing LED lights, the mesmerizing video billboards, the free clean water and the plywood palace rising just behind where she lay in a pile of hay with her husband and granddaughter, under a lumpy old quilt.“We are not seeing any of this money spent in our area,” she said. “Back home, we live in a house made out of mud and hay.”Last election, she voted for Mr. Modi. But when asked what she would do this coming election, she frowned and said: “Let’s wait and see.”Follow Jeffrey Gettleman and Hari Kumar on Twitter: @gettleman and @HariNYTAdvertisement
Advertisement

      By JASMINE C. LEE

MARCH 26, 2019

The House failed on Tuesday to override President Trump’s veto of its resolution to block his national emergency declaration. The veto was the first of Mr. Trump’s presidency.Two-thirds of the House had to vote yes to override Mr. Trump’s veto. About 57 percent of representatives voted to block the emergency in February, and only three more representatives voted yes on Tuesday. Fourteen Republicans voted to override the veto.Republicans Who Voted YesNote: There are currently three vacancies in the House.Source: U.S. House of RepresentativesAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen CastleLONDON — Prime Minister Theresa May on Thursday suffered another significant defeat over Britain’s tortured exit from the European Union when a fragile truce within her Conservative Party collapsed, exposing fault lines in Parliament that are slowly widening as the deadline for leaving approaches.By a margin of 303 to 258, lawmakers failed to support a motion endorsing the government’s battered strategy for Britain’s withdrawal, or Brexit, ignoring a warning from one minister that doing so could worsen Mrs. May’s chances of securing changes that could make her unpopular exit plan more palatable.The latest defeat has no legal implications but is another in a numbing series of setbacks for Mrs. May, whose proposals for leaving the bloc were rejected by a historic margin last month and who needs concessions from Brussels before bringing a revised deal back to Parliament.Mrs. May has assured European negotiators that she can get a majority for a revised Brexit plan, if they make some concessions. But this latest show of disunity from lawmakers, and rebellion from within her own party, appeared to confirm suspicions that legislators cannot coalesce around any plan they can accept.That leaves the European Union with little incentive to budge until things are clearer in London. Yet Britain is scheduled to leave the bloc on March 29, and some analysts believe that the outcome will still be unclear until a few days before that deadline. In the meantime, businesses are left trying to plan for the potentially calamitous possibility of leaving the bloc with no deal.Thursday’s debate in Parliament laid bare the tensions over Brexit within the Conservative Party where a confrontation between hard-liners, willing to contemplate a no deal Brexit, and moderates determined to stop that outcome, has been simmering for weeks.Nor are divisions limited to the government, because feelings among pro-European lawmakers within the opposition Labour Party are coming to a slow boil over the reluctance of their leader, Jeremy Corbyn, to contemplate demanding a second Brexit referendum.“It is unusual, back through history, for both of the parties to be under such strain,” said Roger Awan-Scully, head of politics and international relations and professor of political science at Cardiff University. “To see problems in both is an indication of how fundamental and complicated this issue is.”There have been rumblings around Parliament of a breakaway party combining pro-European elements of the two main parties and perhaps Liberal Democrats. Yet, with an electoral system that favors established incumbents over newcomers, Britain is a notoriously tough place to start a new political party, and a breakaway from the Labour Party in the 1980s ultimately faltered.Still, Mr. Awan-Scully said, “The odds are against us coming through Brexit without some significant defections from at least one of the major parties.”So far the two parties have just about stayed together, and suggestions that the Brexit impasse could be resolved by cooperation between Mrs. May and Mr. Corbyn have produced little. Mrs. May has rejected Mr. Corbyn’s central demand, that Britain should remain in a customs union with continental European nations.Two weeks ago Mrs. May managed to broker a temporary truce when her Conservative Party united around an amendment in Parliament that demanded big changes to the so-called backstop plan that aims to keep goods flowing smoothly over the Irish border. Mrs. May has since argued that she will have a stable majority in Parliament if she secures concessions from Brussels on this issue.But on Thursday that fragile consensus fractured when some right-wingers made it clear they would not support the government motion on its handling of the negotiations. That is because another, nonbinding amendment to the motion was adopted during the same session two weeks ago acknowledging that a majority of lawmakers opposed a no-deal Brexit.The hard-liners believe that keeping open the option of leaving without an agreement will increase Britain’s leverage, because a disorderly exit would damage European economies, too.Their mood was not improved by reports that Mrs. May’s chief Brexit negotiator, Olly Robbins, was overheard in a hotel bar in Brussels saying that he expects lawmakers to be presented in March with a choice between supporting a reworked Brexit deal or a potentially significant delay to Brexit.That directly contradicted Mrs. May’s stated position that she is not contemplating requesting the extension.Moderates in the Conservative Party face a particularly excruciating dilemma. They know that the tide of sentiment among activists in their party is strongly pro-Brexit, so a determined push to stop a no-deal Brexit could end their careers. They have the disquieting example of one of their own, Nick Boles, who is facing deselection, which would prevent him from seeking re-election as a Tory, for having offered an amendment ruling out a no-deal Brexit.However, they also agree with more liberal lawmakers that leaving the bloc without a deal would be so damaging to the country and their party that opposing a no-deal Brexit, or compromising with the Labour Party, is the only responsible course of action.Within the Conservative Party this rift is likely to come to a head on Feb. 27, when Parliament is expected to make another attempt to take control of the process, in the absence of a Brexit deal. If by then Mrs. May has failed to secure a revised deal with the European Union, several ministers are threatening to resign in order to rebel.So far there is little sign of progress in Mrs. May’s talks in Brussels.In an interview with the Spanish newspaper El País, the Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, warned Britain that the balance of power in the negotiation was not in its favor, arguing that the country was “on the wane compared to two or three years ago,” was going to become “a middling economy stuck in the Atlantic Ocean,” and “too small to appear on the world stage on its own.”Pro-Europeans fret that Mrs. May intends to string them along, and postpone a final vote until the week before Britain’s departure, hoping that the pressure of the deadlock will force them to buckle and support her plan.That risk has exposed a fault line within the Labour Party over policy toward a second referendum. Since Labour has failed to secure the general election it wants as its top priority, its pro-European lawmakers now want it to shift into endorsing the people’s vote.That idea is popular among party members but has been resisted by Mr. Corbyn, a lifelong critic of the European Union, and is opposed by lawmakers in some Leave-voting areas.In a sign of the growing tensions, Clive Lewis, a shadow Treasury minister, on Thursday warned Mr. Corbyn of the consequences of failing to oppose Mrs. May’s Brexit plans vigorously.“My fear is that what we are now doing is that we are helping to facilitate a Tory Brexit,” he told a meeting of Labour supporters.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A new research paper tracked the political donations of thousands of C.E.O.s from 2000 through 2017. The results, Andrew writes in his latest column, reveal what top business leaders really think about politics.They’re usually Republican. Nearly 58 percent of C.E.O.s showed a preference for the G.O.P., with just 18 percent designated as Democrats. (For executives to be counted as either, two thirds of their donations had to go to candidates affiliated with one party.)About a quarter were considered neutral. The report doesn’t disclose who was in each category, but its authors told Andrew that Tim Cook of Apple was neutral, having donated to both Hillary Clinton and Paul Ryan over the years.The disparity was narrower in some sectors. Tech and internet companies had somewhat more Democratic-leaning C.E.O.s. And female leaders were nearly evenly split between the G.O.P., Democrats and neutral territory.But the Republicans are quieter. The study found that there was a statistically significant association between a company having a Republican C.E.O. and less disclosure of political contributions.Why it matters: “The opinions held by executives have always resonated beyond their own industries, but their importance is more pronounced today,” Andrew writes. “Mr. Trump, for example, has not hesitated to equate economic policy with foreign policy. It is, then, instructive to understand the political views of our business leaders.”The U.S. and China will embark on another round of high-level trade talks in a final attempt to hash out an agreement, according to the WSJ.• “U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin plan to fly to Beijing next week to meet with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He, Trump administration officials said.”• “The following week, a Chinese delegation led by Mr. Liu is expected to continue talks in Washington.”There are conflicting views on how far they’ve got: America seems upbeat. President Trump yesterday said that talks were “going very well,” and Myron Brilliant, executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said that “we’re in the endgame.” But China may be wary. “Some U.S. negotiators are concerned that China is pushing back against American demands in trade talks,” Bloomberg reports, citing unnamed sources. It may walk back some promises because they didn’t prompt assurances about American concessions.A deal could be ready by the end of April if the next talks go well, the WSJ estimates, about a month later than previously expected.Meanwhile, in Europe:  President Xi Jinping’s trip to Italy and France this week is drawing attention to Europe’s conflicted views on China.After years of criticism, Facebook said it would no longer permit advertisers in key categories to show their messages only to people of a certain race, gender or age group, Noam Scheiber and Mike Isaac of the NYT report.• Anyone advertising housing, jobs or credit would no longer have the option of explicitly aiming ads on the basis of those characteristics.• The new rules also cover advertising on Instagram and Messenger, which Facebook owns.• Facebook said it planned to carry out the changes by the end of the year.• The changes are part of a settlement with groups that have sued Facebook over these practices in recent years.The shift will annoy advertisers. Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s C.O.O., told the NYT that the changes could make advertising on Facebook less efficient for some customers, but that it was “a cost well worth bearing.”And it has limits. “I don’t think it solves the problem of the potential for biased serving of ads,” Pauline Kim, a professor of employment law at Washington University in St. Louis, told the NYT. She explained that Facebook’s algorithms could show any ad to a particular audience if that audience were determined to be likelier to click on it.More Facebook news: Representative David Cicilline, the head of the House antitrust subcommittee, explains why he is calling on the F.T.C. to investigate the company. And are we asking it the wrong questions in the wake of the Christchurch shooting?In the wake of two fatal crashes involving Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane, a new focus for investigations is how the F.A.A. certified the jet as safe, David Gelles and Tom Kaplan of the NYT report.• “The 737 Max was one of the first commercial jets approved under new rules, which delegated more authority to Boeing than had been the case when most previous planes were certified.”• “Top F.A.A. officials, who are briefed on significant safety issues, were not aware” of an automated piloting system suspected in the crashes, Mr. Gelles and Mr. Kaplan report, citing unnamed sources.• “The software did not elicit what are known as special conditions, usually applied to a novel feature that requires additional regulations before it can be certified as safe.” But other features, like non-rechargeable lithium batteries, received that designation.• Skepticism about the F.A.A.’s approval process existed before the crashes. “In 2012, an investigation by the Transportation Department’s Office of Inspector General found that F.A.A. managers had not always been supportive of efforts by agency employees to ‘hold Boeing accountable.’ ”• “The United States transportation secretary, Elaine L. Chao, on Tuesday called for her agency’s internal watchdog to open an inquiry into the process.”More aviation news: President Trump nominated Stephen Dickson, a former Delta Air Lines executive, to lead the F.A.A. And an off-duty pilot reportedly helped save a Lion Air 737 Max 8 flight in software-driven trouble just one day before the same jet crashed.The tech giant introduced a service yesterday that allows people to play high-definition games instantly over the internet. It’s hoping to lead a revolution in the $135 billion industry.Think of it as Netflix for video games. “The new service, called Stadia, will work for anyone with a fast internet connection and a computer, phone or tablet,” Daisuke Wakabayashi and Brian Chen of the NYT write. “Users pay a subscription to access a library of games that they can immediately play, as opposed to the traditional model of paying for a disc or waiting to download a game.”This isn’t the only game-streaming option. Sony offers one called PlayStation Now, and Microsoft plans to test something similar this year. The idea hasn’t yet hit the mainstream because streaming games is more technically demanding than streaming movies — and therefore prone to glitches.Plenty of unanswered questions hang over the announcement. What games will be available? How much will the service cost? And more fundamentally, what is Google’s business model? None of that is clear.But Google has not-so-secret weapons. “Using the global network of data centers that run its internet empire, it is set to unleash enough raw computing power to blow away the industry’s current way of doing things,” the FT writes, and it has “YouTube as a shop window.” Shares in Sony and Nintendo tumbled after the announcement.More Google news: In Europe, the company is changing how it displays some search results, and is giving Android users a choice of web browser to stave off complaints — and potential fines — from antitrust regulators.Just after midnight Eastern Time, Walt Disney closed its $71.3 billion takeover of 21st Century Fox. It has become, Brooks Barnes of the NYT writes, “an entertainment colossus the size of which the world has never seen.”Disney now owns an enviable array of assets. It already runs blockbuster properties like Marvel, Lucasfilm and ESPN, and a huge global theme-park operation. But buying most of Rupert Murdoch’s media empire brings:• The 20th Century Fox movie and TV studios, home to “X-Men” and “The Simpsons”• The Nat Geo and FX cable channels• Most of the Hulu streaming service• Star, the fast-growing Indian video providerThe consequences could be huge. Smaller studios may have to merge. Theater owners could lose out on box-office splits. And Disney’s efforts to dominate streaming could pose big challenges to Netflix, Amazon and Apple.But the stakes are high. “Mr. Iger and his lieutenants need to persuade investors to start viewing Disney more like a technology company, where near-term financial turbulence is often overlooked,” Mr. Barnes writes. And melding two corporate cultures isn’t easy.Anheuser-Busch InBev named Marty Barrington, the former C.E.O. of Altria, as its new chairman. Alex Behring, the head of the investment firm 3G Capital, stepped down from the board.Paul Ryan, the former House speaker, has joined the board of Fox.WarnerMedia named Toby Emmerich, Peter Roth and Kimberly Williams as interim co-heads of Warner Bros. while it seeks a replacement for Kevin Tsujihara.Kickstarter’s co-founder Perry Chen is stepping down as C.E.O.Barclays has hired Bob Peck, who was global head of internet investment banking at Credit Suisse, as a chairman of global internet banking.Deals• Lyft’s I.P.O. is reportedly oversubscribed, just two days after it started pitching to prospective investors. (Reuters)• Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany plans to stay out of merger talks between Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank. (NYT)• Apax and Warburg Pincus are leading a $3.3 billion takeover bid for Inmarsat, the satellite operator. (FT)• Glossier, the online cosmetics company, raised $100 million from investors led by Sequoia at a $1.2 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• Hyundai shareholders are expected to back the company in its fight against Elliott Management, which aims to shake up the carmaker’s board. (Nikkei)Politics and policy• Joe Biden reportedly told supporters that he plans to run for the Democratic presidential nomination. (WSJ)• Robert Mueller began investigating Michael Cohen’s emails in 2017, within months of starting as special counsel. (NYT)• How billions of dollars from military projects across the country could be used for President Trump’s border wall. (Axios)• The Trump administration has lost at least 63 court battles in the last two years, often for failing to provide clear explanations and allow public comment on decisions. (WaPo)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain will seek a short delay — reportedly up to three months — to Brexit. (FT)• The European Commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that European leaders may decide whether to grant a delay next week. The current Brexit deadline is next Friday. (Guardian)• Financial services companies may move an estimated £1 trillion, or $1.32 trillion, in financial assets out of Britain because of Brexit, according to the consulting firm EY. (FT)Tech• Apple is working with three nonprofits to develop anti-disinformation programs. (Axios)• Instagram introduced a feature that lets users buy clothes within its app. (NYT)• Myspace, the once-popular social network, says it may have permanently lost millions of photos, videos, and audio files from its peak period. (NYT)• An argument against breaking up Big Tech: Innovation could stagnate. (FT op-ed)• Airbnb hasn’t raised money in two years, so valuing it for an I.P.O. is tricky. (Recode)Best of the rest• Chinese companies are defaulting at “unprecedented” levels. (CNBC)• Economists around the world are trying to find an alternative to G.D.P. as a measure of prosperity. Here’s how that’s going. (Axios)• The S.E.C. plans to examine whether consolidation is reducing competition among U.S. asset managers. (FT)• The center fielder Mike Trout is reportedly near a $430 million deal with the L.A. Angels, which would be the biggest contract in North American sports history.. (ESPN)• Bill Gates has joined Jeff Bezos in the club of centibillionaires. They’re the only members. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily S. RuebNearly two weeks after basketball players at the University of Mississippi knelt during the national anthem in protest of a pro-Confederate rally that ended on campus, the student government voted unanimously to move a prominent statue of a Confederate soldier.The resolution passed, 47-0, to thunderous applause in the Associated Student Body senate on Tuesday night. The faculty senate unanimously passed a similar measure on Thursday evening.The student resolution “allows us to remember history, and remember the role the university played during the Civil War, without giving the statue the same power,” said John Chappell, the president of the university’s College Democrats.Mr. Chappell was one of six students who spent months researching legal opinions involving the movement of Confederate monuments and consulting with legal and academic experts to write the resolution, which received bipartisan support.The Confederate monument, which was erected in 1906, “undermines our mission to maintain an inclusive and safe environment,” the resolution said.The statue, at the pointy end of a teardrop-shaped traffic circle that leads to the university’s main administrative building, is among the first things drivers see when approaching the campus. The proposal suggests relocating the statue to a cemetery for Confederate soldiers near the campus’s former basketball arena, less than a 10-minute walk away.Parallel proposals have been taken up by other governing bodies on campus. The Graduate Student Council Senate adopted a similar measure on Monday, as did the Staff Council on Thursday.The interim chancellor, Larry D. Sparks, issued a statement to faculty and students on Thursday.“We appreciate the thoughtful and deliberate consideration that the student groups have given to formulating, debating, and passing their resolutions recommending relocation of the monument,” he said. “This is an important decision and issue for our university.”The final decision rests with the board of trustees for the Mississippi Institutions of Higher Learning, an agency that oversees the state’s four-year public universities. The members of the board are appointed by the governor.A spokeswoman for the agency said the situation was “still hypothetical” and declined to comment.In order for the agency to consider the proposal to move the statue, the university must consult with the Mississippi Department of Archives and History to determine “whether the cemetery is a suitable location” for the landmark, according to Mr. Sparks’s statement.Brice Noonan, who teaches biology at the university and chairs the faculty senate, said he has seen “little to no pushback” about the proposals on campus.“It’s generally from people on the outside,” he said, referring to Mississippi residents.William Hall, a junior who writes for the school newspaper, disagreed with the students’ approach. The matter should be settled with a campuswide referendum, he said.“High achievers within the student body,” he said, “are making decisions for the student body as a whole. The average student doesn’t have a say.”For decades, the University of Mississippi has struggled with discrimination and lingering Civil War-era symbolism. When it integrated in 1962, thousands of white students and outsiders rioted on the campus. Two people died and at least 300 were wounded.The statue has long been a source of discomfort for students on campus, said Jarvis Benson, a senior who is one of the authors of the resolution and the president of the Black Student Union. He was a freshman when the state flag, which includes a Confederate symbol, was taken down from a pole behind the statue.When Ed Meek, a wealthy donor whose name once was on the journalism school, wrote an offensive Facebook post in October, it “opened the window” for the difficult conversations about the statue, Mr. Benson said.Being in the room when the student government voted on Tuesday night was moving, he said.The 47 student senators each uttering an “aye” in support of the measure, he said, were like “drops of gold.”On campus, he said, students were feeling a pride about their school that “looks different from winning a basketball game.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the president of the university’s College Democrats. He is John Chappell, not Chappelle.Advertisement
Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
AdvertisementSupported byThe Senate is poised to rebuke President Trump’s national emergency declaration at the southwestern border. The only question: how big the Senate margin will be. By Emily CochraneWith Senator Rand Paul’s decision to support a resolution to block President Trump’s emergency declaration, Congress appears ready to deliver a stern rebuke to the president over his border wall and a clear statement that it will defend its ability to control federal spending.Senator Paul, a libertarian-minded Kentuckian, said he will join fellow Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Thom Tillis of North Carolina, giving proponents of the resolution of disapproval the 51 votes they need, if Democrats remain united in their support.On Monday, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, confirmed that the measure has the votes to pass the Senate. Senate leadership, he said, has been conferring with the Senate parliamentarian to see if the House-passed resolution could be amended before the vote. “It’s an interesting question,” Mr. McConnell said at a news conference in Kentucky. “It’s never been done before.”The measure, outlined in the National Emergencies Act, is the simplest way for Congress to end a president’s national emergency declaration. Mr. Trump has said he will veto it, and neither chamber is likely to muster the two-thirds majority needed to overturn the veto. But the plaintiffs in multiple lawsuits will most likely seize upon a congressional repudiation as support for their argument that, in declaring a national emergency to take money for his wall that was not appropriated by Congress, Mr. Trump is subverting the Constitution, which grants Congress clear control over federal spending. The remaining question: How stern a rebuke will the Senate deliver?Here’s what to watch for as more Republican senators prepare to announce how they will vote on the resolution.Mr. Trump is hoping to divert $3.6 billion from military construction projects to his cherished wall at the southwestern border, effectively subverting lawmakers and the budget they set. Members of the Senate Appropriations Committee, who pride themselves on bipartisanship, have raised concern that Mr. Trump is taking funds that were carefully doled out after months of negotiation in the bill that he signed last month to fund the government through Sept. 30. His declaration marks the first time the National Emergency Act has been invoked because Congress has denied the president funds. Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said the president should use funds already approved by Congress, for instance from Defense Department accounts to support interdiction of illegal drugs.“It avoids taking money for military construction projects specifically approved by Congress such as military barracks and hospitals,” Mr. Alexander said in a speech on the Senate floor Thursday. “And it also avoids months or years of litigation, which could make it unlikely the full 234 miles are ever built.”Others like Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona, have said that they are seeking assurances that key military construction projects will not be affected. In a private lunch with Vice President Mike Pence last week, lawmakers asked for details about what projects would be affected. The Defense Department has not released that information. Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri and another member of the Appropriations Committee, has also expressed misgivings about Mr. Trump upsetting the panel’s handiwork.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]Multiple Republican senators have expressed unease about the precedent set by the declaration and the potential that a future Democratic president could use a national emergency declaration for liberal purposes, once Congress forfeits its exclusive, constitutionally granted power of the purse.Senators Marco Rubio of Florida, Ted Cruz of Texas, and Mike Lee of Utah have all voiced concern on the constitutional question, though none of them has explicitly promised to overturn the emergency declaration. Mr. Tillis, in an opinion piece published in The Washington Post outlining his argument, warned that conservatives needed to consider what some of the current Democratic presidential candidates would do with a national emergency: implement parts of the Green New Deal to address climate change, or limit access to guns to address gun violence, among other possibilities. Even Mr. McConnell acknowledged Monday that the precedent was a concern and was part of the reason he had previously “argued, obviously without success, that the president not take this route.”Supporters of the declaration say that the president is within his rights to use powers that Congress gave him through the National Emergencies Act in the 1970s. “Using this authority is not and was not my preferred choice,” said Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, speaking Sunday on CNN’s “State of the Union.”But Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, in an opinion piece on Fox News published late Sunday, was clear: “In September of 2014, I had these words to say: ‘The president acts like he's a king. He ignores the Constitution. He arrogantly says, 'If Congress will not act, then I must,’” Mr. Paul wrote, adding, “I would literally lose my political soul if I decided to treat President Trump different than President Obama.”Even Mr. McConnell, the first to endorse Mr. Trump’s declaration, declined earlier this week to weigh in on the legality of the measure.“We’re in the process of weighing that,” Mr. McConnell said when asked at a news conference on Tuesday. “I haven’t reached a total conclusion.”Republican senators facing a difficult re-election campaign next year are confronting a dilemma: Stick with Mr. Trump’s core voters or side with swing voters who largely oppose the wall and the emergency declaration to fund it. Senator Cory Gardner, Republican of Colorado, hailing from a state that voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 and Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012, may be the most vulnerable Republican up for re-election next year, and he has not declared where he stands on the resolution of disapproval.Nor has Ms. McSally, another targeted Republican up for election next year for the seat she was appointed to fill after John McCain’s death. Two other Republicans targeted by Democrats, Ms. Collins and Mr. Tillis, have come down on the side of opposing the emergency declaration.A vote supporting the resolution, framed as a defense of Congress’s constitutional power of the purse — or conversely, a vote in support of Mr. Trump’s policies and use of executive power — could sway voters. Emily Cochrane is a reporter in the Washington bureau, covering Congress. She was raised in Miami and graduated from the University of Florida.  @ESCochrane Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court returned to the subject of partisan gerrymandering on Tuesday, appearing largely divided along ideological lines as it considered for a second time in two years whether drawing election maps to help the party in power ever violates the Constitution.Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, the court’s newest member and the one who may possess the decisive vote, expressed uneasiness about the practice.“Extreme partisan gerrymandering is a real problem for our democracy,” he said. “I’m not going to dispute that.”He added, though, that recent developments around the nation — including state ballot initiatives establishing independent redistricting commissions, proposed legislation in Congress and State Supreme Court rulings — may make action from the United States Supreme Court less necessary.“Have we really reached the moment, even though it would be a big lift for this court to get involved, where the other actors can’t do it?” he asked.Much could hang on Justice Kavanaugh’s opinion: A ruling that limited partisan gerrymandering could transform American politics, reshaping House maps in several states, often but not always to the benefit of Democrats.Justice Kavanaugh was an exceptionally active participant in Tuesday’s arguments, asking probing questions of both sides and displaying particularly detailed familiarity with the geography and voting districts of Maryland, his home state. But his record as an appeals court judge provides few hints about how he will approach the issue.The other justices seemed largely split along the usual lines, with the more conservative ones wary of announcing constitutional limits on partisan gerrymandering and the more liberal ones prepared to try.There was certainly no consensus on how to fashion a legal standard that would separate acceptable partisanship from the kind that is unconstitutional. Justice Stephen G. Breyer proposed a numerical test, but it did not seem to gain traction with his colleagues.Justice Neil M. Gorsuch, on hearing one lawyer’s proposed standard, said it amounted to “I know it when I see it.”Last year’s cases, from Wisconsin and Maryland, raised the possibility that the court might decide, for the first time, that some election maps were so warped by politics that they crossed a constitutional line. Challengers had pinned their hopes on Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who had expressed ambivalence on the subject, but he and his colleagues appeared unable to identify a workable constitutional test. The justices instead sidestepped the central questions in the two cases.When Justice Kavanaugh replaced Justice Kennedy, many election lawyers said the prospects of a decision limiting partisan gerrymandering dropped sharply. Justice Kavanaugh’s questioning on Tuesday complicated that assessment.On Tuesday, several justices repeated a question Justice Kennedy had asked in earlier cases: Would it be permissible for state lawmakers to make giving their own party an advantage an express legal requirement in drawing voting maps? Justice Kennedy had written that the answer had to be no.Paul D. Clement, a lawyer for North Carolina lawmakers who had insisted on just such a requirement, said it was proper and in some ways desirable. “The answer — sort of obviously given who I’m representing — is, ‘Absolutely, yes, that’s not a problem, and, by the way, I think actually being candid about it probably serves accountability principles in the long run.’”The North Carolina case, Rucho v. Common Cause, No. 18-422, was an appeal from a decision in August by a three-judge panel of a Federal District Court in North Carolina. The ruling found that Republican legislators there had violated the Constitution by drawing the districts to hurt the electoral chances of Democratic candidates.The judges noted that the legislator responsible for drawing the map had not disguised his intentions. “I think electing Republicans is better than electing Democrats,” said the legislator, Representative David Lewis, a Republican. “So I drew this map to help foster what I think is better for the country.”The plan worked. In 2016, the court said, Republican congressional candidates won 53 percent of the statewide vote. But they won in 10 of the 13 congressional districts, or 77 percent of them.In 2018, the statewide vote was about evenly divided, but Democrats again secured only three seats. (After evidence of election fraud and the death last month of a longtime incumbent, two seats are open.)Like Justice Kavanaugh, Justice Gorsuch cited recent ballot initiatives creating nonpartisan redistricting commissions as a reason for the Supreme Court to hold its fire.A lawyer for one set of challengers in the North Carolina case, Emmet J. Bondurant II, said such initiatives were not a complete answer. “The vast majority of states east of the Mississippi, including specifically North Carolina,” he said, “do not have citizen initiatives.”Nor is it clear that independent redistricting commissions will remain available. In 2015, the Supreme Court upheld Arizona’s commission, which was challenged by the state’s Legislature. The vote was 5 to 4, with Justice Kennedy joining the court’s four more liberal members to form a majority.Mr. Clement, the North Carolina lawmakers’ lawyer, had represented the Arizona Legislature and did not seem reconciled to his loss in the case. He said the framers of the Constitution had contemplated having election maps drawn by state legislatures, not commissions.The Maryland case, Lamone v. Benisek, No. 18-726, was brought by Republican voters who said Democratic state lawmakers had in 2011 redrawn a district to retaliate against citizens who supported its longtime incumbent, Representative Roscoe G. Bartlett, a Republican. That retaliation, the plaintiffs said, violated the First Amendment by diluting their voting power.Mr. Bartlett had won his 2010 race by a margin of 28 percentage points. In 2012, he lost to Representative John Delaney, a Democrat, by a 21-point margin.Last year, after the Supreme Court returned the case to the United States District Court in Maryland, a three-judge panel of that court ruled for the challengers, barred state officials from conducting further congressional elections using the 2011 maps and ordered them to draw new ones.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said the First Amendment may have a role to play if states draw districts to harm voters based on their political viewpoints.“It does seem that this is a situation where the state is taking retaliatory action against Republicans who were in that district and had a more effective vote,” he said, “and penalizing them for exercising their right to vote by moving them out to a different district.”Steven M. Sullivan, Maryland’s solicitor general, said the challenged district had been drawn for reasons unrelated to politics. Justice Kavanaugh seemed unpersuaded.“I don’t think you should run away from the obvious,” Justice Kavanaugh told Mr. Sullivan.In the North Carolina case, Mr. Clement warned the court about the perils it faced in taking on partisan gerrymandering.“Once you get into the political thicket,” he said, “you will not get out and you will tarnish the image of this court for the other cases where it needs that reputation for independence so people can understand the fundamental difference between judging and all other politics.”Allison J. Riggs, a lawyer for a second set of challengers in the North Carolina case, said the real danger was in not acting: “The reputational risk of doing something is much, much less than the reputational risk of doing nothing, which will be read as a green light for this kind of discriminatory rhetoric and manipulation in redistricting from here on out.”Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin, Melina Delkic and David Scull(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. The Senate voted to block President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the border with Mexico, setting up the first veto of his presidency.Twelve Republicans joined all 47 Democratic senators, after the House passed a similar resolution last month. The declaration would have redirected $3.6 billion from military construction projects toward building the border wall, even after Congress rejected a funding request.The bipartisan rebuke was the first time Congress has blocked a presidential emergency declaration. “It’s pure and simple: It’s a vote for border security, it’s a vote for no crime,” Mr. Trump, above, told reporters ahead of the vote.Earlier in the day, the House voted overwhelmingly to demand the public release of the special counsel’s report on the Russia investigation._____2. The captain of the doomed Ethiopian Airlines jetliner seemed calm at first. Then he sounded panicked.Minutes after takeoff from Addis Ababa on Sunday, his Boeing 737 Max 8 had accelerated to abnormally high speeds. “Break break, request back to home,” he urgently radioed controllers, who had seen that the jet was oscillating vertically by hundreds of feet.These details, provided to our reporter by a person who reviewed the air traffic communications, shed chilling new detail about the final minutes of the jet, which crashed, killing all 157 people aboard.Many pilots are abuzz about the strange acceleration. And some are worried their hands-on flying skills are lacking amid increased automation, in the wake of recent crashes of 737 Max 8s, above, in Indonesia and Ethiopia._____3. In other international news:Lawmakers in Britain voted to delay the country’s departure from the European Union beyond the original March 29 deadline after two years of negotiations. In a flurry of votes on several amendments, Parliament, above, also rejected holding a second referendum on Brexit.Separately, two rockets were fired at Tel Aviv from the Gaza Strip, the Israeli military reported. One landed in an open area, and the other was intercepted by Israel’s Iron Dome missile-defense system. Initial Israeli news media reports said there was no damage or casualties._____4. The relatives of victims of the Sandy Hook massacre won a major court battle over gunmakers’ liability in mass shootings.The ruling, which allows a lawsuit brought by relatives to go to trial, could force gun companies to turn over internal communications they have fought to keep private. It also validates the new strategy lawyers used to find a route around federal protections for gunmakers. Above, Bill Sherlach, whose wife was killed in the shooting, responding to the ruling.“I am thrilled and tremendously grateful,” said Nicole Hockley, whose 6-year-old son, Dylan, was killed in his first-grade classroom in the 2012 shooting at an elementary school in Newtown, Conn. “No one has blanket immunity.”_____5. There were pole-vaulters who didn’t pole-vault. A tennis player who didn’t play a single tennis match. A long snapper who weighed 145 pounds and had stopped playing football.The largest college admissions scandal in recent history has shed new light on the role of college sports in gaining entry to the nation’s top schools.As the scandal broke, students at a school in Kansas City, Mo., who had been working for months to gain entrance into some of the same universities named in court documents called it a harsh lesson in the limits of meritocracy.We also went to the University of Southern California, one of the schools most entangled in the scandal, where four athletics officials are charged with taking bribes, more than the number named at any other school._____6. In 2020 news, Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman, is running for president.Mr. O’Rourke, above in Iowa, a Democrat whose near-miss Senate run against Ted Cruz propelled him to stardom last year, announced his intention in a video on his Twitter profile. He has been criticized for not taking a strong enough stance on key Democratic issues — he has declined to call himself a progressive — and for his lack of a campaign infrastructure.We also took a look at how Texas is nearing battleground status._____7. The reputed Gambino mob boss Frank Cali was murdered outside his home on Staten Island.Until Wednesday, it had been decades since an organized crime leader had been killed in New York City. The Gambino family was once the nation’s largest and most influential Mafia group, but several of its leaders were convicted in the 1990s of crimes like murder and racketeering. Above, the scene outside Mr. Cali’s home.Mr. Cali, 53, rose to power by avoiding detection, nothing like John Gotti, the “Dapper Don” who ruled the same operation when Mr. Cali was a little boy. Here are five other high-profile mob hits in New York City from over the years._____8. Japan’s ice monsters are disappearing.Tourists from around the world travel to see the juhyo — huge, Godzilla-like creatures, naturally formed by snow and ice, encasing conifer trees spread across a mountainous landscape. Researchers have tracked a steady deterioration of the ice monsters because of warming temperatures.“I am very worried about greenhouse effects,” said a professor. “By the end of the century, the juhyo will disappear from Earth.” Above, a student collecting snow to sample for airborne contaminants.In other climate news, students in more than 100 countries are planning to skip class on Friday to demand action on climate change._____9. Hudson Yards is Manhattan’s biggest, newest, slickest gated community, according to our architecture critic, who calls it “a relic of dated 2000s thinking.”At $25 billion, the Far West Side development, above, is the largest mixed-use private real estate venture in American history. Many of its tenants were lured by lucrative tax breaks provided by New York politicians to the developers.“It is, at heart, a supersized suburban-style office park, with a shopping mall and a quasi-gated condo community targeted at the 0.1 percent,” Michael Kimmelman, our critic, writes._____10. Finally, happy Pi Day!Pi is defined as the ratio of a circle’s circumference to its diameter, something the internet reminds us of every March 14 (or 3.14). But the famous mathematical ratio, estimated to more than 22 trillion digits (and counting), is the perfect symbol for our species’ long effort to tame infinity, one mathematician, Steven Strogatz, writes.“For some people, Pi Day is an occasion to marvel at circles, long revered as symbols of perfection, reincarnation and the cycles of nature,” writes Mr. Strogatz. “But it is the domestication of infinity that we really should be celebrating.” Above, the Children’s Museum of Houston’s celebration for Pi Day in 2011.Or if you’d rather use the unofficial holiday as an excuse to have a slice of pie, that’s O.K., too.Have a sweet night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas CaseyYansnier Arias knew it was wrong. It violated the Constitution, not to mention the oath he took as a doctor in Cuba.He had been sent to Venezuela by the Cuban government, one of thousands of doctors deployed to shore up ties between the two allies and alleviate Venezuela’s collapsing medical system.But with President Nicolás Maduro’s re-election on the line, not everyone was allowed to be treated, Dr. Arias said.A 65-year-old patient with heart failure entered his clinic — and urgently needed oxygen, he said. The tanks sat in another room at the ready, he recalled.But he said his Cuban and Venezuelan superiors told him to use the oxygen as a political weapon instead: Not for medical emergencies that day, but to be doled out closer to the election, part of a national strategy to compel patients to vote for the government.May 20, 2018, was nearing, he said, and the message was clear: Mr. Maduro needed to win, at any cost.“There was oxygen, but they didn’t let me use it,” said Dr. Arias, who defected from the Cuban government’s medical program late last year and now lives in Chile. “We had to leave it for the election.”To maintain their hold over Venezuela, Mr. Maduro and his supporters have often used the nation’s economic collapse to their advantage, dangling food before hungry voters, promising extra subsidies if he won, and demanding that people present identification cards tied to government rations when they came to the polls.But participants in the schemes say Mr. Maduro and his supporters have deployed another tool as well: Cuba’s international medical corps.In interviews, 16 members of Cuba’s medical missions to Venezuela — a signature element of relations between the two countries — described a system of deliberate political manipulation in which their services were wielded to secure votes for the governing Socialist Party, often through coercion.Many tactics were used, they said, from simple reminders to vote for the government to denying treatment for opposition supporters with life-threatening ailments.The Cuban doctors said they were ordered to go door-to-door in impoverished neighborhoods, offering medicine and warning residents that they would be cut off from medical services if they did not vote for Mr. Maduro or his candidates.Many said their superiors directed them to issue the same threats during closed-door consultations with patients seeking treatment for chronic diseases.One former Cuban supervisor said that she and other foreign medical workers were given counterfeit identification cards to vote in an election. Another doctor said she and others were told to give precise voting instructions to elderly patients, whose infirmities made them particularly easy to manipulate.“These are the kinds of things you should never do in your life,” said the doctor. Like several others, she spoke on the condition of anonymity because she and her relatives could face retaliation by the Cuban or Venezuelan authorities.The accounts of manipulation and fraud underscore the many challenges to Mr. Maduro’s legitimacy as president. After the start of his second term in January, the opposition-controlled legislature declared its leader, Juan Guaidó, the country’s rightful president, calling the election undemocratic.More than 50 countries, including the United States, now recognize Mr. Guaidó as Venezuela’s president, though Mr. Maduro still holds the reins of power.Mr. Maduro’s opponents often accuse Cuba — which has long depended on oil from Venezuela — of propping up his embattled government by sending agents to work with Venezuela’s intelligence agencies, helping its ideological ally crush dissent.But the use of Cuban doctors to exert political control is not widely known, the doctors say, and the practice casts a harsh light on a sweeping exchange that supposedly benefits all Venezuelans, regardless of their politics.The Venezuelan government did not respond to questions, while the Cuban government noted that, for decades, its doctors have been celebrated for their medical missions across the globe, fighting Ebola in Africa, blindness in Latin America and cholera in Haiti, to name a few.It rejected the doctors’ assertions that they had been dragged into campaigns and pressured to manipulate or threaten patients for political ends in Venezuela, citing the “honorable task” they have accomplished.“The historical impact of that cooperation in Venezuela has been reflected in the 1,473,117 human lives that have been saved,” the government said.But human rights experts point to the special pact between Cuba and Venezuela over the last two decades.“The Cuban government wants to make sure the Venezuelan regime survives and is willing to do anything in their power to support Maduro,” said José Miguel Vivanco, director of the Americas program at Human Rights Watch. “It is unspeakable.”Dr. Carlos Ramírez loved the work.A dental surgeon, he left Cuba and came to Venezuela, proud of the cause. Many of his patients had never seen a dentist before, he said.But he despised one part of his job: Each weekend, he and other medical workers were told to hand out medicine and enlist voters for Venezuela’s Socialist Party, he said. The visits were so routine they had a name — “casa-a-casa,” or house-to-house.“You arrived with vitamins and some pills for blood pressure” or the like, said Dr. Ramírez, who defected to Ecuador after six years. “And when you started to gain their trust, you started the questions: ‘Do you know where your voting place is? Are you going to vote?’ ”All 16 of the Cuban medical personnel interviewed confirmed the house-to-house visits mixing medicine and politics.They were part of Barrio Adentro, a program set up by former President Hugo Chávez in 2003 to bring medicine to poor neighborhoods in Venezuela. Under a new Constitution passed in 1999, health care was a universal right. Shifting the nation’s focus to the poor, Mr. Chávez turned to Cuba for medical personnel.Cuba, still reeling from the collapse of its former patron, the Soviet Union, had much to gain. Doctors are the island’s most profitable export, with medical missions in more than 60 countries that provide Cuba with an estimated $8 billion in cash. Venezuela paid for its doctors in a precious resource: oil.Mr. Chávez was beloved by many Venezuelans. So in the early years, Dr. Ramírez and other doctors said they were mainly instructed to remind voters that Mr. Chávez had provided the medicine — and should be thanked with their votes.But in 2013, after battling cancer, Mr. Chávez died. His handpicked successor, Mr. Maduro, was not nearly as popular and faced a strong challenge from the opposition.Dr. Ramírez and other doctors say they were then told to deliver a warning: If Mr. Maduro lost the election, the next government would break ties with Cuba and Venezuelans would lose their medical care.“With Chavez it had been hard, but with Maduro, starting in 2013, it was worse,” another Cuban doctor said. “It became a form of blackmail: ‘You’re not going to have medicine. You’re not going to have free health care. You’re not going to have prenatal care if you’re a pregnant woman.’ ”Four of the Cuban medical workers said the government established “electoral command centers” inside or next to clinics, with Socialist Party operatives dispatching doctors to pressure residents.One added that, on the day Mr. Maduro was elected to his first term, she witnessed officials opening ballot boxes and tampering with votes, including destroying ballots that chose the opposition. Another said she and others were asked to vote with false identification.On April 14, 2013, officials declared Mr. Maduro the winner with 50.6 percent of the vote, one of the narrowest margins in years.“I asked myself, ‘Why is a physician, someone who is meant to be on a humanitarian mission, having a part in who wins an election?’” said one of the doctors. “This is called tampering. There is no other word for it.”By 2015, the headwinds facing Mr. Maduro had grown. Oil prices and production were dropping. The shortages of basic goods had begun. The opposition was seeking control of the legislature, and appeared headed for victory.“Because the opposition was favored to win, they gave us the work of buying votes,” said Raúl Manuel, a Cuban doctor now in Brazil. “Buying votes in what sense? Going out with medicine.”Dr. Manuel said he was sent to Barinas, the state where Mr. Chávez was born. But it had begun to turn against the Socialist Party, and resentment against Cuban doctors was building for their pact with the government.When Dr. Manuel did his required house-to-house visits, some residents unleashed dogs or came to the door armed, he and other doctors said.On Election Day, Dr. Manuel said he was sent to an opposition stronghold. When early returns showed the opposition ahead, a gun battle broke out. Dr. Manuel said he found himself trapped on a cul-de-sac as bullets ricocheted around him.He called his clinic for help, he said, but it was busy sending out doctors to get voters to the polls.“They said they had no cars to rescue us,” he said.After the shootout, Dr. Manuel said he returned to the clinic, shaken, only to learn that government officials from other departments — including the sports and culture agencies — were going out, too, posing as doctors.“We, the doctors, were asked to give our extra robes to people,” he said.The fake doctors were even giving out medicines, without knowing what they were or how to use them, he added.“They were putting the lives of so many people at risk, the lives of children, all to win votes,” Dr. Manuel said.Another Cuban doctor in Barinas offered the same account: that government employees, dressed as physicians, were sent out with medicine to get votes.When the final tally came in, Mr. Maduro’s party had been trounced nationally, losing its majority in the legislature for the first time since 1999.By the time Dr. Arias arrived in late 2016, Venezuela was suffering a grinding collapse.The economic implosion had led to chronic shortages of food. Inflation had hit so hard that people paid with stacks of bills, counted at cash registers with electric bill counters. Crimes and killings soared.And then there were the hospitals. Vital medicines couldn’t be imported because the government had little cash. Water cuts meant surgeons used bottled water to clean their hands, without soap, which was also in short supply.Doling out the little medicine that remained, the doctors now focused their vote-getting efforts on patients with chronic illnesses, who needed repeated attention, Dr. Arias said.“The theme was chronic illnesses, the ones where you would die if patients didn’t get medicine, and that’s how they controlled people,” Dr. Arias recalled.Mr. Maduro was fighting for control himself. Protests swept the capital for months, setting off a government crackdown in which more than 100 people died in street battles.After receiving death threats from patients, Dr. Arias said he was sent to a fishing town, La Vela del Coro, where food shortages led doctors and nurses to steal medicine and trade it for groceries.“I saw it with my own eyes,” he said, recounting how a Cuban nurse traded antibiotics for “a kilo of potatoes, a kilo of yams.”Residents of La Vela confirmed that both Cuban and Venezuelan doctors regularly bartered medicine for goods on the black market.In mid-2017, Mr. Maduro made a bid to consolidate power: a referendum for a second legislature to replace the opposition-controlled National Assembly.Calling the vote illegal, the opposition refused to participate, so the slate of candidates was composed entirely of figures loyal to the president.The new legislature quickly sidelined the National Assembly, embarking on an aggressive agenda to silence Mr. Maduro’s critics.The government pushed a contentious identification system called the “homeland card,” used by the Socialist Party for both food subsidies and voting. Mr. Maduro urged citizens to get the card to receive groceries, and party officials opened kiosks outside polling places to review the cards after people cast their ballots.Dr. Arias said that doctors’ house-to-house visits started registering people for the cards. But the cards terrified many Venezuelans, who feared the government would see how they voted and restrict their food in retaliation.Before an election for governors that year, Mr. Arias recalled an epileptic patient in the hospital who needed treatment but had refused the homeland card.“‘I don’t want anything to do with this homeland! I don’t want anything to do with Maduro!’” he recalled her shouting. She was sent away without medication, he said, “because she was from the opposition.”As the returns came in, Mr. Maduro’s party claimed a lopsided victory, taking 17 of the 23 governorships, despite polls that had projected losses.“Today, the homeland has gotten stronger,” Mr. Maduro said that night.In 2018, it was Mr. Maduro’s turn to face voters.Measures were taken to ensure his victory. One challenger, Leopoldo López, was dragged between house arrest and a military prison. Another, Henrique Capriles, was banned from running, along with most opposition parties.As shortages worsened, Mr. Maduro promised hefty subsidies to those using the homeland card, saying openly: “I give, you give.”But his government withheld other essentials.Dr. Arias said medical supplies, always scarce in La Vela, soon disappeared, hoarded until the May election. He said his superiors wanted to flood hospitals with supplies right before the vote, giving the impression that Mr. Maduro had fixed the country’s shortages.“When the elections came, everything appeared: medicine, gas, dressings for bandages, injection serums,” he said. Residents in La Vela who had gone to the clinic confirmed it was suddenly supplied before the election.The case of the oxygen tanks still weighs heavily on Dr. Arias.“I argued with my colleagues over and over,” he said. “Yes, of course there was oxygen, but they didn’t let me use it.”Ángel Villegas, La Vela’s opposition mayor, said he was denied medication, too, told that it was in short supply.“There are a large number of services where you feel that, yes, they took into consideration the fact that you were in the opposition,” he said.As Election Day neared, the doctors continued to fan out in support of Mr. Maduro.“They come to your house, they ask you a series of questions, and you start to think, if I answer ‘no,’ they can cut me from health care,” said one patient, who declined to be named, fearing government reprisals. “It just leaves you overwhelmed.”On May 20, Mr. Maduro was declared the winner, landing him a second term. For Dr. Arias, it was too much.He made his way to Chile, taking shelter in a church, cleaning floors in a hospital and seeking asylum, unable to find work as a doctor.“If I can’t be a doctor, I at least want to be a person,” he said.It’s unclear how many other doctors have abandoned Cuba’s medical missions around the world — informal estimates are in the thousands — but the consequences are stark. Dr. Arias and the others are considered deserters by the Cuban government and cannot return to their families.Dr. Ramírez, the dental surgeon, is one of the few doctors interviewed who has returned to medicine, with a small practice in Ecuador.“You don’t finally realize what is right, until you open your eyes,” he said.Andrea Zarate contributed reporting from Lima, Peru.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Friday began her push to overturn President Trump’s emergency declaration, scheduling a House vote for Tuesday on legislation that would end the declaration, a timeline meant to force congressional Republicans to choose quickly between their president and the prerogatives of their branch of government.With little doubt that Ms. Pelosi can muster the House votes to block the declaration, her goal is to raise pressure on Republicans to defend the power granted to Congress by the Constitution to control federal spending. Democrats will need to pick up a handful of Senate Republicans to pass the resolution of disapproval, which is a possibility.That would force Mr. Trump to issue the first veto of his presidency, an action he said on Friday was “100 percent” certain. From there, supporters would need the votes of two-thirds of Congress to override that veto, a much taller order.But the resolution will force Republicans in both chambers to make a stark choice, and defections are all but definite. Democrats are appealing to conservatives to join them in defending what Ms. Pelosi called Congress’s “exclusive power of the purse.”“This issue transcends partisan politics,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters in a phone call on Friday, adding, “It’s about patriotism.”Mr. Trump, with his declaration, hopes to divert $3.6 billion from military construction projects to build his promised wall along the southwestern border, effectively going around Congress to secure money that lawmakers have repeatedly refused to give him. Multiple lawsuits have already been filed to have the maneuver declared unconstitutional, but the simplest way to block it is for Congress to overturn the declaration through mechanisms set up by the National Emergencies Act of 1976.“We prepared for the worst, because the president right now is engaged in the worst,” said Ms. Pelosi, speaking from Laredo, Tex., where she said she planned to tour the southwestern border with other lawmakers. She declined to say if the House would formally support any legal action in court, but said that lawmakers were still considering additional legal steps.“The president’s act is lawless — it does violence to our Constitution and therefore our democracy,” Ms. Pelosi said.Republican leaders promised to muster enough votes in the House to sustain Mr. Trump’s veto.“Declaring a national emergency is a sobering act, which is why Congress enacted a statute governing when and how the president can take this action,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the ranking Republican on the House Judiciary Committee. “House Democrats’ angst over Congress’s power of the purse is unwarranted, especially since the commander in chief’s authority to redirect military funds for a national emergency is affirmed in a law passed by their own branch.”But Republicans will not stop the measure on Tuesday. More than 220 Democrats and one Republican — Representative Justin Amash of Michigan — have signed on to the resolution of disapproval, which Congress can use to end the emergency status under the National Emergencies Act if the threat has dissolved or if there is concern that the president has used his powers irresponsibly. That is already more than enough to clear the House.Ms. Pelosi noted that extending an offer to Republicans to join Democrats in sponsoring the resolution was a courtesy.“What’s really important is how they will vote when it comes to the floor,” she said. “We’ll see where they come down on that.”Representative Joaquin Castro, Democrat of Texas and the author of the resolution, said that he planned to spend the weekend calling his colleagues and rallying support for the measure. He said he and his staff had been working on the one-page measure for weeks in anticipation of a declaration.“This is an historic power grab and it will require historic unity by members of Congress,” he said on Friday, calling the declaration a “parasitic movement” from the president.“If the Congress rolls over on this, the president is likely to do it again,” he added.By law, the Senate will have to take up the measure within 18 days of its passage in the House, where a floor vote is expected within 18 days after a committee vote. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, has in the past been a fierce defender of Senate prerogative, but he backed Mr. Trump’s declaration this month to secure passage of a major spending bill that funds the government through the fiscal year.Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said in a statement on Thursday that identical companion legislation would soon be introduced in the Senate. The Senate could also move to amend the resolution that is expected to pass through the House.House Republicans argue that legal authority given to the president under the act allows for the declaration, and that there should be support for prioritizing border security.But for several Republicans, there is concern about the murky circumstances for declaring a national emergency and the precedent that Mr. Trump’s declaration will set for future administrations.Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine and one of the senators likely to rebuff the president, said this week that she would support a resolution as long as it did not contain additional items. Other Senate Republicans have voiced discomfort with the president’s decision but have yet to publicly say whether they will support the resolution of disapproval.The slim Republican majority offers hope for Democrats that four Republicans will join them in passing the resolution through the Senate. The challenging 2020 re-election campaigns will squeeze some Senate Republicans between the pro-wall demands of Mr. Trump’s base and more moderate voters who oppose the wall or Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration.Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, outlined situations last week that “a left-wing president would undoubtedly utilize to implement their radical policy agenda while bypassing the authority of Congress” — a “rabbit hole” that he said Mr. Trump’s move had made possible.Others stood by the president“I know some Republicans are concerned about the precedent it will set, but here’s what I’m concerned about: a broken border,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, speaking on Fox News. “I’m worried about what is going to happen now, not what some Democrat may do later.”Both Democratic leaders said Mr. Trump’s declaration violated one of the clearest constitutional mandates.“If the president’s emergency declaration prevails, it will fundamentally change the balance of powers in a way our country’s founders never envisioned,” Mr. Schumer said Thursday. “That should be a serious wake-up call to senators in both parties who believe in the constitutional responsibility of Congress to limit an overreaching executive.”Members of the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on Thursday in part to examine Mr. Trump’s use of powers under the National Emergencies Act. Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the committee chairman, has  requested that Pat A. Cipollone, the White House counsel, and other Justice Department officials appear as witnesses.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House passed the Democrats’ showcase anti-corruption and voting rights legislation on Friday, an expansive measure that aims to dismantle barriers to the ballot box, end big money in politics and impose stricter ethics rules on federal officials.The sweeping legislation, passed 234-193, makes good on the campaign pledge to clean up Washington that helped catapult Democrats into the majority. It also serves as a campaign platform for Democrats ahead of 2020. It has virtually no chance of passing the Senate.“It’s a power grab for the American people,” said Representative Zoe Lofgren of California, who leads the House administration committee that shepherded the legislation.The ambitious compendium, at nearly 700 pages, includes proposals designating Election Day as a federal holiday, automatically registering citizens to vote, and restoring voting rights to people who have served felony sentences. It also creates a six-to-one matching system for donations of up to $200 to congressional and presidential candidates who reject high-dollar contributions, funded by an additional fine on corporations found to have broken the law.Republicans arguably have spent more time trying to define the bill — called the For the People Act or H.R. 1, to underscore its primacy — and tear it down than Democrats have spent trying to promote it. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, has branded it the “Democrat Politician Protection Act” in weekly speeches, and pledged not to take up the legislation. The House Republican leader, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, also criticized the legislation.“This bill is a massive federal government takeover that would undermine the integrity of our elections,” Mr. McCarthy said in a speech on Friday, in an attack on “this new, Democrat, socialist majority.”Some of the most debated provisions are intended to reveal who funds online political ads and finances so-called dark-money groups. The Disclose Act, part of the bill, would require super PACs and nonprofit organizations that spend money in elections to disclose the names of donors who contribute more than $10,000. Democrats say such disclosure is broadly popular with voters across the political spectrum.“Congress cannot meaningfully address the nation’s significant challenges without first recognizing and acknowledging the undue influence of special interests in our politics,” said Representative Abigail Spanberger, Democrat of Virginia.Some of those provisions, however, have drawn criticism from both conservative and liberal groups that argue the language is overly broad and would infringe on First Amendment rights. The American Civil Liberties Union urged members to vote against the bill.Democrats have also used the legislation to make clear that they believe that cleanup must start with the White House, and included several provisions jabbing at the president and homing in on a laundry list of his administration’s alleged ethical abuses.It would require presidents and vice presidents, as well as candidates for the nation’s highest offices, to release at least 10 years of federal tax returns — Mr. Trump has released none — and it stipulates that inaugural committees must disclose their expenditures.And an amendment sponsored by Representative Raul Ruiz of California would prohibit federal funds from being spent at businesses owned or controlled by the president, the vice president or any cabinet official. Federal agencies spent about $13 million on four of Mr. Trump’s trips to his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida in early 2017, according to a report by a nonpartisan congressional watchdog agency issued last month.Two other measures also zero in on the costs of administration officials’ travel. One provision would require the Defense Department to regularly report to Congress details of the costs of presidential travel; the other would prohibit political appointees from using federal funds to pay for travel on noncommercial or private flights for official business.“We must hold our government leaders to the highest standards, and with so many high-profile ethics violations in the past years, it is clear we have failed to do that,” Representative Tom O’Halleran, Democrat of Arizona and the sponsor of the amendments, said in a statement.Democrats also successfully put down an attempt by Republicans to divide the caucus and tar the legislation with a resolution expressing the sense that “allowing illegal immigrants the right to vote devalues the franchise and diminishes the voting power of United States citizens.”Republicans have repeatedly ambushed Democrats — twice successfully — with politically freighted procedural motions in a drive to divide Democrats and draw out vulnerable swing-district members. But determined not to let that taint their signature legislation and fired up by a rousing speech from freshman Representative Max Rose of New York, Democrats held steady.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by“Is your oath of office to Donald Trump or is it to the Constitution of the United States?”SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI, addressing Republican lawmakers before the House voted to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the Mexican border.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin Mueller and Palko KaraszLONDON — Hundreds of thousands of protesters marched through London on Saturday afternoon in a last-ditch, long-shot effort to reverse Britain’s looming split from the European Union, calling on lawmakers to heed the enormous anger among pro-Europeans and break the political stalemate by holding a second referendum.The protesters, some of whom traveled for hours on buses and trains, set off from Hyde Park holding placards that nodded at their European roots — “50 percent French, 50 percent British, 100 percent European,” one boy’s sign read — and employed a bit of British understatement — “Brexit really not going well, is it?” read another.The crowd — organizers estimated a million people turned out, though there was no way to independently confirm it — clogged vast stretches of central London, with thousands of people still waiting to begin marching by the time those at the front of the rally were filling Parliament Square.“This is the first time I’ve felt that I needed to come and take part,” said Jenny Chandler, 54, a food writer from Bristol, arriving under the Victorian arches of London’s Paddington Station on Saturday morning.“I’m feeling disempowered and frustrated, and even though it feels slightly futile, I wanted to be here today,” Ms. Chandler said. “It’s our last glimmer of hope to stay in the E.U.”But hanging over the march was the reality that, as frustrated as many Britons have become over the gridlock in Parliament, there remains little appetite among lawmakers for another public vote. And as much as anti-Brexit organizers have tried to cast their movement as inclusive of the people who voted to leave the Europe Union in a referendum 2016, the idea of a second referendum is still divisive.Still, marchers on Saturday said they were reaching for a way out of the bleak political landscape in Parliament. Prime Minister Theresa May’s deal has repeatedly been rejected, including by her putative allies, and the prospect of a calamitous no-deal Brexit is looming.[Read more on how Brexit supporters embraced the cliff edge of a no-deal exit.]As Yema Stowell, 25, was leaving Paddington Station to join a stream of people making their way toward Hyde Park, she said the fight against Brexit transcended traditional party politics.“When the campaign started, I thought this is something I believe in — political parties not so much,” said Ms. Stowell, who works for an academic publisher in Oxford, England, and campaigned to remain in 2016.But she said people were fast losing hope, citing as an example an aunt who has a dress matching the European Union flag but who decided not to march on Saturday. Whether or not lawmakers decide to hold a second referendum, Ms. Stowell said, campaigners needed to speak up for Britain’s relationship with Europe, a subject that will surely consume the political debate for years.“This is about telling Theresa May that the people aren’t on her side,” she said, referring to comments this past week by Mrs. May in which she said lawmakers were undermining the public with their attempts to stall her exit plan.As the marchers advanced, some blew whistles and erupted in cheers and jeers. A percussion band pounded out a frenetic rhythm, and someone could be heard playing the European Union’s anthem on a bagpipe.Speakers included London’s mayor, Sadiq Khan, and the first minister of Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon. Absent from the march on Saturday was Jeremy Corbyn, the opposition Labour leader, who has long dithered over a second referendum. His support would be crucial to any move in Parliament for another public vote.Instead, the Labour Party’s Twitter account, after asking about supporters’ “weekend plans,” suggested they participate in local election events, a post that critics said was symptomatic of Labour’s attempts to sidestep the biggest political crisis in a generation.But the march on Saturday was also a reminder that the Labour leadership does not speak with a single voice when it comes to Brexit. The deputy Labour leader, Tom Watson, used the occasion to announce that he would vote for a Brexit deal that gave the public a chance to choose between the agreement and staying in the bloc.The idea that the British could still be debating in late March a reversal of the coming split once seemed far-fetched. The country had been scheduled to leave on March 29. But European leaders have agreed to delay Brexit. And frustration is growing in Britain, with a petition calling to cancel Brexit racking up more than 4.4 million on Parliament’s website on Saturday — the same day as the march.Many of the marchers were young people who described the fight for another public vote on Brexit as the defining political event of their lives.[Read:  Young People Are Leading the Campaign for a Second Brexit Vote]“Hello, and welcome aboard the People’s Vote express from Bristol Temple Meads to London Paddington,” Sally Patterson, 23, an officer at the University of Bristol Students’ Union, said into a microphone aboard a train on Saturday, before handing it back to the conductor.Some of the estimated three million European Union citizens living in the country, many of whom say they resent not having been given a chance to vote on the issue, took part, as well.Erika Pavely, 37, who came from Slovakia to study more than a decade ago and later married an English man, said of the attacks on immigrants during the Brexit process, “I feel personally insulted sometimes.”She added, “There has been a lot of finger pointing at people who are here to contribute to society, who have never been on benefits.”The demonstration was a stark contrast to an ongoing march “against Brexit betrayal.”A few dozen Brexit supporters — backed by Nigel Farage, the former leader of the euroskeptic U.K. Independence Party — set out on March 16 in Sunderland, in northeast England, a community that voted in favor of Brexit, and were heading for a rally in London on March 29 where organizers hope many more Brexiteers will join them.But the march on Saturday also featured some Conservatives who said they disagreed with their party’s line on Brexit.Daniel Poser, 52, a residential landlord in London who belongs to Conservatives Against Brexit, was walking by government buildings stickered with anti-Brexit slogans on Saturday.“You’re now seeing the proof that Brexit is a puzzle with no way out,” Mr. Poser said. “We as a nation are trapped by the lies told during the referendum.”He said he saw another referendum as a practical way out of the crisis. “The poison entered the system through the referendum — can we draw it out through a referendum and never talk about it again?” he said.Many polls show that Britons have now gone from mostly thinking that Britain was right to leave Europe after the referendum to mostly thinking the opposite. Support for a public vote has also grown, according to a mid-March poll by YouGov for the People’s Vote campaign, though pollsters’ findings have varied widely depending how the question is asked.Another protester, Olivia Leydenfrost, 58, a British-American communications professional who grew up in Nyack, N.Y., north of Manhattan, but has lived in Britain for 17 years, arrived in London on Saturday from Bath. She said the right-wing movements in Britain and the United States had motivated her to march.“Because I’m a U.S.-U.K. citizen, I have Trump back there and Brexit here, and these two things have made me become an activist,” Ms. Leydenfrost said.She said Mrs. May’s efforts to hold her fractured Conservative party together, despite the clock ticking down to a no-deal Brexit, were difficult to watch. “What is devastating is the Tories willing to sacrifice the country for the party,” she said.An earlier version of this article misidentified where in New York the protester Olivia Leydenfrost grew up. It was in Nyack, not Manhattan.OpinionSam ByersAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Anna SchaverienLONDON — The European Union has moved one step closer to scrapping seasonal time change after a substantial majority of lawmakers voted to end the requirement to move clocks ahead by one hour in spring and then back in the fall.Under the current law, which has been in place for member states for two decades, clocks are moved ahead one hour on the last Sunday in March to create daylight saving time, and then moved back to standard time on the last Sunday in October. The European Parliament voted 410 to 192 on Tuesday to back a draft law to abolish the twice-a-year switch.Under the draft law, each of the 28 countries in the bloc (although Britain may have left by then) will have to choose before 2021 whether it will follow daylight saving time throughout the year or maintain standard time.That may seem to be a recipe for confusion, but Violeta Bulc, the European commissioner for mobility and transport, sought to allay concerns.“I know from my discussions with member states so far that all of them see as clearly as we do the need for a coordinated approach,” she said during the debate. “No one wants to see a patchwork of time zones within the E.U.”European countries unified arrangements for daylight saving time in 1980 to prevent differing time zones from undermining the single market. The practice started in the United States and some European countries during World War I as a way to conserve fuel by extending summer daylight.“This seasonal time change that was invented because of a wish to save energy does not work; it does not give the desired result,” said Marita Ulvskog, a member of the European Parliament from Sweden who wrote the transport and tourism committee’s draft resolution on discontinuing seasonal time changes, in a phone interview. “So why keep that system? We are deciding to give up on the experiment.”Although the directive approved by Parliament on Tuesday had initially suggested that the practice would end this year, lawmakers amended the proposal to delay the switch for two years.In March 2021, countries that want to remain on daylight savings would turn their clocks forward for the final time, and others that opt for permanent standard time would make the last switch back in October that year.The bloc’s member states will be required to inform one another of their choice by spring of next year, and to submit a plan by the end of October 2020 of how they will address any potential negative impact caused by the change.This puts Britain, which is in the process of leaving the European Union, in an uncertain position.If the country enters into an extended transition period, which features in Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal agreement, it would have to follow other member states in abandoning the practice of changing the clocks.But British Conservative Party lawmakers in the European Parliament were quick to dismiss the decision to abolish seasonal time changes. One of them, John Flack, wrote on Twitter that the draft law was “yet more interfering with nation states.”Tuesday’s debate at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, stemmed from a European Commission proposal in September 2018.More than four million people responded to a public consultation from the commission last summer, and 84 percent were in favor of scrapping seasonal time changes. Respondents expressed concerns about the impact on their health, increased traffic accidents and a lack of proven energy savings.“The people want it; we will do it,” the president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, told a German broadcaster when he heard of the record numbers of people sharing their opinions on abolishing daylight saving time.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily Cochrane and Thomas Gibbons-NeffJACKSONVILLE, N.C. — The main road that connects a strip of tattoo parlors, pawn shops and restaurants to Camp Lejeune is still lined with broken trees bent by Hurricane Florence’s winds. Inside the gates, a new threat has arisen for the sprawling Marine Corps base as it contends with billions of dollars in hurricane damage and lingering effects of contaminated water: President Trump’s border wall.On Tuesday, the House will try to override the first veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency and rescue Congress’s bipartisan bid to block the president’s national emergency declaration, which Mr. Trump wants to use to siphon military funds from projects like Camp Lejeune’s reconstruction to build a wall on the Mexican border.Last month, Democrats appealed to Republicans — with only limited success — to vote down the president’s emergency on the lofty grounds of constitutional prerogative and Congress’s control of federal spending. This time, on the veto override, their appeal is more parochial: Look where the wall money will come from.“A bipartisan majority of Congress went on record in voting to rebuke this ill-conceived idea,” said Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Now that members of Congress can see the potential impact this proposal could have on projects in their home states, I hope they will take that into consideration before the vote to override the president’s veto.”The expansive list of Defense Department projects targeted for possible cuts — $12.9 billion in all — spans nearly all 50 states and more than two dozen countries where troops are stationed. Fire station repairs, new schools and training complexes are all slated for potential funding delays to fulfill Mr. Trump’s intent to take up to $3.6 billion in military construction funds for the wall. So are plans for Camp Lejeune’s new water treatment facility.“What may seem small is large to others,” said Monique Gibbs, 39, a Jacksonville, N.C., native who works with survivors of trauma and abuse.On Monday, Patrick M. Shanahan, the acting defense secretary, authorized the first transfer of Defense Department money to fencing construction at the southwestern border: up to $1 billion from military personnel funding toward the construction of 57 miles of border wall, improving roads and adding lighting in Yuma, Ariz., and El Paso, according to a letter sent to the Department of Homeland Security.That transfer was made without having to use the emergency declaration, but the Defense Department is rushing to sign contracts on several projects, hoping that will protect them before officials turn to military construction funds to fulfill the president’s request. But some projects would be hit if the emergency decree survives its congressional rebuke and court challenges, and delays could be consequential for service members and their families.National Guard officials are scrambling to award money to build a $9 million fire rescue station in Peoria, Ill., before it is lost to the border and locals are left with an outdated fire station — built in 1992 and incapable of providing 24-hour support.At Fort Campbell, Ky., home of the historic 101st Airborne Division, base housing and maintenance facilities are throwbacks to the 1950s. The structures have slowly degraded under the rapid deployment tempo of the wars since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, according to congressional aides who recently toured the facility. And without congressional intervention, construction on a $63 million middle school will be delayed and base officials will likely repurpose an aging high school in the interim.In Jacksonville, there is discomfort among residents that money for Camp Lejeune’s projects could be delayed for a wall more than a thousand miles away.John Henley, a defense contractor here, doubted the “financial feasibility” of Mr. Trump’s signature campaign promise, but he also was resigned to a local hit.“I hate to make it so nonchalant; a building or two may fall down before they get repaired,” Mr. Henley, 34, said as he polished off a black cherry and grape snow cone a couple miles from Camp Lejeune. But, he added, “we’re a resilient type.”Efforts to turn the list into political ammunition against Republicans are particularly pointed in North Carolina, where Senator Thom Tillis, a first-term Republican, is running for re-election next year. Mr. Tillis publicly outlined his intent to vote against Mr. Trump’s national emergency declaration last month in a Washington Post opinion piece last month that dwelt on his constitutional responsibilities.Then, just before the vote last week, he changed his mind and voted with the president.Already, the state Democratic Party has blasted out emails detailing which North Carolina projects were on the list — including the Camp Lejeune water treatment facility — and condemning Mr. Tillis for putting “his political career ahead of the well-being” of local military families. That fund-raising email sparked more than double the average amount in donations, according to a person familiar with the results.“This definitely damaged Senator Tillis’s re-election concern in a way that’s unique, more so than the government shutdown or some of the past votes he took,” said Robert Howard, a spokesman for the North Carolina Democratic Party, citing the potential effect on Camp Lejeune, Fort Bragg and other military bases. “We very much understood what the emergency declaration could mean to our state.”Mr. Tillis said on Monday that he was concerned about the potential threat to the projects, but added, “I feel like the critical needs — we’ll be able to secure funding.”“I’m not worried about that,” Mr. Tillis said when asked about Democrats weaponizing his vote and the threat to North Carolina projects. “They’ll always be looking for ammunition.”Republican strategists and several conservative voters said his flip-flop suited them fine.“I’m glad he changed his mind,” said Ann Sulliview, 68, speaking ahead of a Republican convention in Wayne County, where officials emphasized the need to keep both the Senate and the presidency in Republican control. But, she conceded, “he was going to catch flak for that either way he went.”Patrick Gallagher, a Wayne County chiropractor, agreed. “We put him in office because he’s going to help the Republican Party,” he said. “The fact that he had a change of heart shows that he reflected back on why he’s there. He’s not there to thwart what we’re trying to accomplish.”Potentially losing money for military projects, he acknowledged, “is not the best” for the state. But he said it was something he and other conservative voters could accept for Mr. Trump and his wall.“I think we would give that up to do the greater good,” Dr. Gallagher said. “It’s not the best, but we’re forced to do that.”Republican lawmakers who voted against the national emergency declaration found that sentiment prevalent when they returned to their districts. Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, was disinvited from a Republican dinner after his vote against the emergency declaration, the Kansas City Star reported.And at a town hall-style meeting in Spokane, Wash., on Monday, Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers told about 20 constituents that her vote for the resolution of disapproval — “a difficult vote for me,” she repeated — was a vote against a president trying to secure taxpayer funds without congressional approval, not against a border wall. Some applauded her resolve, but others were unconvinced of her support for Mr. Trump’s border security vision.“I appreciate your vote, but I disagree,” said Kerry Schmidt, 62. “There’s a lot of people fighting against it. Where are the people fighting for it?”Emily Cochrane reported from Jacksonville, N.C., and Thomas Gibbons-Neff reported from Washington.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, said on Sunday that he would support a resolution that would overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the southern border, appearing to provide the crucial vote needed for the Senate to pass the measure.“I stand with the president often, and I do so with a loud voice,” Mr. Paul wrote in an opinion piece published late Sunday on Fox News’s website. “Today, I think he’s wrong, not on policy, but in seeking to expand the powers of the presidency beyond their constitutional limits.”“I cannot support the use of emergency powers to get more funding” for a wall along the border with Mexico, he wrote, “so I will be voting to disapprove of his declaration when it comes before the Senate.”Mr. Paul joins three other Republican senators — Susan Collins of Maine, Thom Tillis of North Carolina and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — in backing the resolution. His support appears to provide the slim majority Democrats need to send the measure to the president’s desk, offering a stinging repudiation of the declaration.The House, largely on party lines, passed the resolution on Tuesday, and under the National Emergencies Act of 1976, the Senate is required to vote on the resolution in the coming weeks. Mr. Trump has said he would veto the measure, and it is unlikely that either chamber could muster the two-thirds majority needed to override a veto.But with several lawsuits already filed in court, a resolution of disapproval from Congress — the simplest mechanism for lawmakers to challenge a declaration — could help opponents of the declaration.Mr. Paul, a Kentucky libertarian who frequently rails against government spending and often has no qualms about bucking his party, urged his Republican colleagues to recall their frustration with President Barack Obama’s use of executive power. He warned about the legal merits of the order, writing that “I think the president’s own picks to the Supreme Court may rebuke him on this.”He had signaled in remarks on Saturday at the Southern Kentucky Lincoln Day Dinner that he would vote for the resolution, saying he was opposed to giving “extra-constitutional powers to the president,” according to The Bowling Green Daily News.But with time before the Senate has to vote, Mr. Trump and his allies have an opportunity to lobby Mr. Paul. Such tactics have been successful before: The Senate Foreign Relations Committee was poised to give Mike Pompeo’s nomination as secretary of state an unfavorable recommendation until Mr. Paul bowed to pressure and gave his approval.Mr. Trump, who was repeatedly denied wall funding by lawmakers, hopes to use $3.6 billion from military construction projects to fulfill his campaign promise to build a wall along the southern border. He has dismissed concerns about the precedent, saying in a speech on Saturday that “they’re going to do that anyway, folks.”Some Republican senators — including Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee — have voiced concerns about the effect on military readiness, seeking assurances that projects in their states will not be affected. The Defense Department has yet to release a list of projects affected.Others, including Mr. Paul, have objected to a possible overreach of executive power that future presidents could take advantage of. But few have been willing to publicly say how they will vote on the resolution.Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said it was “unnecessary and unwise to turn a border crisis into a constitutional crisis about the separation of powers” in a floor speech on Thursday, where he outlined other means for obtaining funds.“There is no limit to the imagination of what the next left-wing president could do to harm our country with this precedent,” he added. But pressed by reporters, he declined to reveal his planned vote.“I learned a long time ago in the United States Senate, it’s not wise to announce how you will vote on a vote you may never have to take,” he said.Conversely, Ms. Collins joined Senator Tom Udall, Democrat of New Mexico, in introducing a resolution of disapproval on Thursday. Ms. Murkowski joined the pair in co-sponsoring the resolution.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Hannah BeechBANGKOK — Pauline Ngarmpring is running for prime minister of Thailand, one of around 70 candidates for the job. She will not win.One reason is that she was born a he.But a more fundamental explanation is that Thailand’s elections, scheduled for Sunday, were circumscribed even before campaigning began. For nearly five years since a military coup, Thailand has been ruled by a junta that has suppressed dissent, targeted political parties and, now, orchestrated an election that will give voters only partial franchise.That hasn’t stopped around 80 parties from running. Their aims are eclectic. Ms. Pauline’s party wants to represent not only transgender individuals like herself, but any Thai whose human rights have been compromised.“People think of Thailand as a party place, so happy and nice for holiday, but we have a lot of problems with human rights that need to be solved with better government,” Ms. Pauline said in an interview.Another major party, Bhumjaithai, which came in third in the last elections, has tied the nation’s future to the legal cultivation of marijuana. Its leader, Anutin Charnvirakul, says that Thailand’s soil is perfect for growing cannabis and that small-scale farming could bring each household an extra $13,000 a year — if people don’t hoard too much for their own recreational use.There is a political party for defenders of Buddhism, and another with 15 candidates who all legally changed their names to those of the Shinawatra siblings, two popular former prime ministers whose governments were unseated by military coups.Yet these diverse platforms and colorful candidates camouflage a darker truth: After years of delay by the junta, Thailand may at last be going through the rituals of democracy, but the elections are taking place in a much-diminished political landscape.“Thailand is moving into a custodial democracy under long-term military supervision,” said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, a political scientist at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. “Anti-junta forces are likely to win the vote in the lower house, but because the Constitution is so stacked in the military’s favor, a junta-led coalition government is likely.”Even pro-military Thais agree that Pheu Thai, a populist party affiliated with the Shinawatra family, will be the top vote-getter on Sunday, as were its sister parties in every previous election this century. But the junta’s Constitution ensures that the Senate is entirely appointed, and the prime minister does not need to be a sitting member of Parliament.Given the constitutional limits, it is improbable that Pheu Thai will be able to form a government.In addition, several other parties and their executives have court cases hanging over them that, after the election, could result in the dissolution of parties or jail time for their leaders.“Nothing about this upcoming election is free and fair,” said Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, the leader of the Future Forward Party, a new youth-focused party that has enjoyed a groundswell of online support in a country with some of the most active users of social media in the world.In recent elections, only about one-third of Thais between the ages of 18 and 25 voted. But social media campaigns have energized the demographic, and more than 10 percent of the electorate is young.Mr. Thanathorn, who has enjoyed strong crowd support during campaign stops, is facing computer crimes charges over a Facebook Live video in which, prosecutors say, he spread fake news. Human rights groups say the charges, which also have been made against Future Forward’s deputy leader and could involve prison time, have been trumped up in order to kneecap the party.A decision in Mr. Thanathorn’s case could be made in the coming week.Thailand has had a fractious relationship with democracy since absolute monarchy was outlawed nearly nine decades ago. The nation’s generals have staged more than a dozen successful coups, and the country has churned through 20 constitutions. The average prime minister’s tenure is less than three years.For years, the nation has been bifurcated between elite urbanites, and debt-ridden farmers and factory workers, who have seen Thailand’s wealth gap grow under junta rule. A survey by Credit Suisse found that Thailand is the most unequal society on earth, beating out Russia and India, with 1 percent of the population controlling more than 65 percent of the wealth.“In the past in Thailand, it has always been the rich who use their capital to take the profits from poor farmers, who accumulate debt to survive,” said Mr. Anutin of the Bhumjaithai Party, which is campaigning on agricultural reform, including cannabis production. “This cannot continue.”An earlier incarnation of Pheu Thai was one of the first parties to heavily court the nation’s rice growers and working class, offering health care subsidies and agricultural incentives. The result was landslides in every election since 2001, when Thaksin Shinawatra, a billionaire telecoms entrepreneur from the north, swept to victory and discomfited the establishment in Bangkok.Mr. Thaksin was ousted in a coup in 2006 and has since been convicted in absentia of corruption-linked crimes, as has his sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, another former prime minister, whose government was toppled in the 2014 coup. Both remain popular, even from self-imposed exile.Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, the head of the National Council for Peace and Order, as the junta is known, has been nominated to stay in his current job by a military-affiliated political party.Mr. Prayuth is openly distrustful of some of the trappings of democracy. He has threatened, perhaps jokingly, to shoot journalists whose coverage he dislikes. Under junta rule, dissidents have been sent to detention camps for attitude adjustment. Cybercrime and sedition legislation has been used to target thousands of people who have spoken out against the junta and its limits on freedom of assembly and speech.In the weeks before the election, Mr. Prayuth, who writes his own songs and likes to perform them, has tried to show off a gentler mien. His party has released gauzy photos of the prime minister on social media, one with his hands cupping his smiling face, accompanied by a sentiment attributed to Mr. Prayuth: “Sometimes I want to look handsome.”Even if Pheu Thai and other Shinawatra-linked parties mimic history and do well in Sunday’s election — one such party was dissolved this month by the Constitutional Court, in a controversy that involved the Thai king’s sister’s brief candidacy for prime minister — the bloc of 250 senators appointed by the military is likely to jettison their chances of leading the country.What may follow, instead, is a weak, fractious coalition. The Democrat Party, a long-established force that gave tacit support to the last coup, is angling for a major role in any coalition. It is likely to be among the top vote-getters on Sunday, winning support in its traditional urban and southern power bases.But waiting in the wings, and even on the ballots, is the military. If anti-junta forces coalesce again, no one is discounting another putsch.“Every time there’s a coup d’état, the country falls behind,” Mr. Thanathorn said. “This vicious cycle must be stopped.”Muktita Suhartono contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — At Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.’s confirmation hearings 14 years ago, the first dozen questions were about whether he would respect the Supreme Court’s abortion precedents. He was still answering those questions Thursday night.In a surprise move, the chief justice joined the Supreme Court’s liberal wing in a 5-to-4 decision blocking a Louisiana law that could have severely restricted abortion in the state. Although he offered no reason for his vote, there is little doubt that he wanted to avoid sending the message that the court was ready to discard a 2016 decision, a precedent, in which it struck down a similar Texas law.But the court’s order was just three sentences long, and the stay it imposed was temporary. The case is likely to reach the court on its merits next term. And when that happens, it is hardly certain that Chief Justice Roberts will vote to strike down the Louisiana law.The seeming inconsistency is the result of competing impulses. Chief Justice Roberts is a product of the conservative legal movement, and his general approach is to lean right. But he is also an institutionalist and a guardian of his court’s legitimacy, meaning he wants to make modest and deliberate moves.In practice, that may mean that abortion rights — like gay rights, affirmative action and protections for criminal defendants — are not at immediate risk. But they are in more danger now that the chief justice has assumed the pivotal role on the court that used to belong to the somewhat more liberal Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who retired last year.Thursday’s order, then, was hardly a guarantee that Chief Justice Roberts will vote to protect the constitutional right to abortion established in Roe v. Wade in 1973, Michael C. Dorf, a law professor at Cornell, wrote in a blog post.“But it does suggest that he is at least in a go-slow mode,” Professor Dorf wrote.“So no, the abortion right is not safe,” he added. “But it’s not in quite as much immediate danger as one might have thought. And that’s not nothing.”At his 2005 confirmation hearings, Chief Justice Roberts told Senator Arlen Specter that the Supreme Court should be wary of overturning precedents, in part because doing so threatens the court’s legitimacy.“It is a jolt to the legal system when you overrule a precedent,” he said. “Precedent plays an important role in promoting stability and evenhandedness.”Mr. Specter, at the time a moderate Republican protective of abortion rights, was pleased with the answer. “A jolt to the legal system, a movement against stability — one of the Roberts doctrines,” he said.That Roberts doctrine was on display Thursday. The precedent at risk was Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, which in 2016 struck down a Texas abortion law that required doctors providing abortions to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals. The majority said the requirement served no medical purpose and imposed an undue burden on women’s constitutional right to abortion.The vote was 5 to 3, with Chief Justice Roberts one of the dissenters. He might have been expected to take a similar stance in Thursday’s case. Instead, at least for now, he declined to give the legal system a jolt.At the confirmation hearing, Mr. Specter also tried to get Chief Justice Roberts to say that Roe was a “super-duper precedent,” because the Supreme Court had reaffirmed its core holding in 1992 in Planned Parenthood v. Casey.Chief Justice Roberts declined to adopt Mr. Specter’s terminology, but he did not quarrel with his larger point. Indeed, he said the legal doctrine of stare decisis, which is Latin for “to stand by things decided,” counseled caution in light of the Casey decision’s extended discussion of the importance of adhering to precedent.“The Casey decision itself, which applied the principles of stare decisis to Roe v. Wade, is itself a precedent of the court, entitled to respect under principles of stare decisis,” Chief Justice Roberts said. “That is itself a precedent. It’s a precedent on whether or not to revisit the Roe v. Wade precedent. And under principles of stare decisis, that would be where any judge considering the issue in this area would begin.”At the same time, he said respect for precedent must sometimes give way to other considerations, including whether “a particular precedent is workable or not” as a practical matter and “whether a precedent has been eroded by subsequent developments” in the law.Chief Justice Roberts has occasionally voted to overrule precedents, notably in cases on campaign finance and public unions. In 2007, he joined the majority in a 5-to-4 decision sustaining the federal Partial-Birth Abortion Act. Just seven years earlier, the court had struck down a similar Nebraska law by the same vote.What had changed in the interim was that Justice Sandra Day O’Connor had retired and been succeeded by the more conservative Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr.“The key to the case was not in the difference in wording between the federal law and the Nebraska act,” Erwin Chemerinsky, now dean of the law school at the University of California, Berkeley, wrote at the time. “It was Justice Alito having replaced Justice O’Connor.”Abortion rights proponents worry that the replacement of Justice Kennedy with the more conservative Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh may cause a similar shift.Justice Kennedy was, after all, in the majority in the 2016 Texas case. Since then, two Trump appointees — Justices Kavanaugh and Neil M. Gorsuch — have joined the court.On Thursday, Justice Kavanaugh appeared to acknowledge the binding nature of the Texas decision, though he chose his words carefully.“All parties, including the state of Louisiana, agree that Whole Woman’s Health is the governing precedent for purposes of this stay application,” he wrote in a dissent. “I therefore will analyze the stay application under that precedent.”Justice Kavanaugh said the majority had moved too fast in blocking the law and should have called for more information about its practical effect.His approach was a variation on Chief Justice Roberts’s incrementalism and reluctance to overrule precedents outright. But abortion rights proponents remain wary of both justices, fearing that they will take a winding road toward a destination at which many more women, and especially poor ones, will find it hard to obtain abortions.Chief Justice Roberts’s fullest judicial discussion of the power of precedent came in a concurring opinion in 2010 in the Citizens United decision, which overruled two campaign finance precedents. Departures from precedent, he wrote, require very good reasons.But he added, quoting from earlier decisions, that the Supreme Court remained free to correct its worst errors.“Stare decisis is neither an ‘inexorable command’ nor ‘a mechanical formula of adherence to the latest decision,’ especially in constitutional cases,” he wrote. “If it were, segregation would be legal, minimum wage laws would be unconstitutional, and the government could wiretap ordinary criminal suspects without first obtaining warrants.”That passage suggests that there will be room, at the right time, for the chief justice to reconsider Roe, and to elaborate on what the Roberts doctrine means for that contested precedent.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin MuellerLONDON — Lara Spirit, an anti-Brexit organizer, was studying politics at the University of Cambridge in 2017, reading about the use of referendums as a way of settling political disputes. It was timely coursework: A year earlier, Britons had voted to leave the European Union.But Ms. Spirit was growing alarmed at the omission of young people from the Brexit debate. Despite warnings in her readings about the risks of referendums, she delayed school and founded a group with other students to push for another public vote on Brexit.They called it Our Future, Our Choice, and on Saturday it will be among a clutch of youth groups helping to lead an expected crowd of hundreds of thousands in a march on Parliament in support of a second referendum.“We were sort of horrified that there hadn’t been a youth group that was a voice on the issue of Brexit,” Ms. Spirit, 22, said. “It will be my generation, of course, who will be making sense of this and dealing with the consequences of the decision we took in 2016.”The fight for another public vote on Brexit, while still marginal among members of Parliament, has gained momentum among Britons, none more so than the young people steeling themselves for a lifetime of arguing about Europe.They look around and see a bleak political landscape: Parliament is deadlocked; Prime Minister Theresa May is still pushing her unloved Brexit plan, even though it has been rejected by her putative allies in the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland; and the frightening prospect of a calamitous no-deal Brexit seems to be gaining more credibility every day.But the way many young people see it, the political chaos and dysfunction are working in their favor, with the anti-Brexit forces gaining momentum.By Friday, for example, more than four million people had put their names by Friday on a petition to revoke Article 50, the mechanism for leaving the European Union, and those numbers were growing.As Saturday’s march approached, students in Bath and Bristol bought seats on a chartered train to London. Others are coming on buses. And in student union buildings across the country, young people this week were gathering to paint banners and persuade their classmates to join them.Brexit has molded their politics as decisively as the Iraq War did an older generation’s. Worried about a chaotic British exit without an agreement with the European Union, students said they view a second referendum as the only way out of the current impasse and a crucial step to protect gains on climate change and workers’ rights.“It’s awoken a group of people who otherwise might not have been engaged,” said Sally Patterson, 23, an officer at the University of Bristol Students’ Union. “If you have a mate from Greece who might not be able to continue studying next year, you’ve got a stake in their future.”The timing of the march — only six days before the original date of Britain’s departure from the European Union — once seemed risky. Surely, it seemed, politicians would have settled the matter by then.James McGrory, the executive director of People’s Vote, the umbrella group that is organizing the march on Parliament, said the group’s leaders were originally dubious about pouring money and energy into a rally in late March. But younger organizers prevailed on them to hold it anyway.“It was me and senior colleagues who hemmed and hawed, ‘Should we do one or not?’” Mr. McGrory said. “The two things young people in the campaign said were, ‘You should have the courage of your convictions — do it.’ The other thing is they thought we could raise the money online to pay for it.”The chances of a second referendum remain small. Labour Party leaders, who have long dithered over a second referendum, have never energetically backed the idea.The most likely form it would take is a choice between the prime minister’s exit deal and remaining in the European Union. Many polls show that Britons have now gone from mostly thinking Britain was right to leave Europe after the 2016 referendum to mostly thinking the opposite.And support for a public vote has grown, according to a mid-March poll by YouGov, with the option of staying in Europe favored over Mrs. May’s divorce deal or a no-deal exit.With a following of hundreds of thousands of people on social media and email lists, Ms. Spirit’s group has invited young people to Parliament to petition their representatives and arranged for members of Parliament to visit schools to speak about Brexit. The group’s leaders have won big audiences on Twitter by posting video of encounters with pro-Brexit voters.Along the way they have become valuable voices for an anti-Brexit movement that in 2016 was harmed by its association with the political class. (It was the Conservative prime minister at the time, David Cameron, who led the Remain campaign.)“It’s more enjoyable to be the insurgents than the incumbents,” said Mr. McGrory, who is himself a veteran of the 2016 Remain campaign.At Edge Hill University in northwest England, several dozen students were painting banners on Thursday in the students’ union bar. Among the anti-Brexit slogans: “Pulling Out Never Works.”“It feels like an antithesis to the kind of bland politicians and political elite that are pushing Brexit,” Luke Myer, 24, vice president of the students’ union, said. “It’s real, and it’s irreverent as well. We like our memes and dumb slogans.”Students said the atmosphere on campuses had seemed relatively dull in 2016, when the pro-Europe campaign stressed the potential economic problems if Britain left. Now, students are agitating about access to study abroad programs, research funding from Europe and the rights of their European classmates, said Shakira Martin, the president of the National Union of Students.Many students, too young to vote in 2016, argue that so much time has passed since the first referendum that they deserve a fresh vote. In 2016, a majority of older voters favored leaving, while most younger voters wanted to remain. Demographic changes since then might alter the results of a second referendum, with more young people reaching voting age, students say.However sparse the support for a second referendum in Parliament, the campaigners may succeed in laying the groundwork for fights in the months and years ahead for a closer relationship with Europe, said Rob Ford, a professor of politics at the University of Manchester.Just as the Labour government of Tony Blair was blamed for Britain entering the Iraq War, he said, it will be Mrs. May’s government that will bear the stain from Brexit.“If you’re a student, the whole first 10 years of your working life are likely to be impacted to a greater or lesser extent by this Brexit debate,” Mr. Ford said. “It’ll be seen as something Conservatives initiated and presided over.”Palko Karasz contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Julian E. BarnesWASHINGTON — The American military took down a Russian troll farm last Election Day in a cyberattack that continued for several days after the vote, part of what United States officials have said is a persistent campaign to block and deter interference in American democracy.The operation was intended to prevent the Internet Research Agency, based in St. Petersburg, Russia, from spreading propaganda or disinformation aimed at undermining confidence in the midterm vote or the results of the election, American officials said.The operation was aimed at taking the Internet Research Agency off line for several days, from Election Day until the results were certified by local officials.The Internet Research Agency, the best known of the Russian troll farms that create large amounts of propaganda, has been accused by the United States government of meddling in the 2016 elections. It is not part of the Russian government, but is controlled by oligarchs loyal to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.Intelligence agencies had assessed that the Russian troll farms that create and spread disinformation in the United States and Europe were likely to step up their disinformation activity on the day of the vote and while votes were being counted.Officials said the Election Day operations were part of a larger campaign led by United States Cyber Command and the National Security Agency to secure the midterm vote. Those operations began with a campaign of direct messages sent to Russian operatives who had created disinformation and propaganda aimed at sowing dissent and undermining confidence in American voting systems. Those direct messages were aimed at deterring the creators of propaganda.The Election Day operation, reported Tuesday by The Washington Post, was conducted under new authorities authorized by the White House. The new authorities, officials said, have sped up decision making, ensuring that bureaucratic concerns do not get in the way of taking action.Intelligence officials have said it is difficult, if not impossible, to use cyberoperations to take an adversary off line permanently. Cyberweapons typically exploit unpatched vulnerabilities in software. Given time, the target of an operation can find workarounds or fix software problems, restoring its internet connectivity or computer operations.Because of that, officials said, the operations against the Internet Research agency were designed to last only for a limited number of days.Joseph R. Holstead, the deputy director of Cyber Command public affairs, said the military did not “discuss classified cyberspace planning and operations.”“U.S. Cyber Command will continue to work as part of the whole-of-government effort to defend our elections and democratic institutions from foreign malign influence,” Mr. Holstead said.After the election, under another White House executive order, the director of national intelligence conducted an analysis of foreign interference during the midterm election.That report, which has not been made public, found that the Russians sought to interfere in the vote, not by trying to hack voting machines but by spreading disinformation. The report found that Russia used social media, fake personas and Moscow-controlled media to inflame opposite ideological sides with an aim of further polarizing the United States.On Capitol Hill, intelligence committee officials declined to discuss the Election Day cyberoperation.But after a hearing on the rise of authoritarianism in Russia, China and elsewhere, Representative Adam B. Schiff, the California Democrat who leads the House Intelligence Committee, said Russian efforts to interfere in elections were continuing.“There is a prioritized part of the Russian agenda to not just interfere in our democracy but interfere in democracies in Europe,” Mr. Schiff said. “They are pushing their authoritarian model to undermine institutions that reinforce democracy.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael WinesGREENSBORO, N.C. — On the east side of Greensboro, the boundary separating North Carolina’s 6th and 13th congressional districts takes an abrupt detour. The line yanks hard to the west until it reaches Laurel Street, turns northward, and disappears into the brown-brick campus of North Carolina A&T State University, where it neatly bisects the nation’s largest historically black college.Five dormitories lie in the 6th district; seven in the 13th. All are in unassailably Republican territory, as the line splits both the university and the city’s mostly Democratic 285,000 residents between two conservative rural bastions.Nikolaus Knight, a senior and political science major, was assigned to a new dormitory after his freshman year — and had to re-register to vote as a result. “We had the power as a student body to sway an election,” he said. “And our voice as a campus was stripped away when we were cut in half.”This is the power of mapmaking by the state’s Republican legislature, which drew new political borders three years ago that allowed Republicans to capture 10 of this state’s 13 House seats last fall, even though nearly half of all House votes went to Democratic candidates.Nobody disputes that the North Carolina map was drafted to elect a maximum number of Republicans to the House, not even the Republicans themselves. The map has a 10-3 Republican tilt, one of its drafters said, “because I do not believe it’s possible to draw a map with 11 Republicans and two Democrats.”On Tuesday, the Supreme Court will hear arguments over whether such partisanship violates the Constitution. One case involves the Republican-drawn map in North Carolina. A companion case centers on Maryland’s 6th Congressional District, which Democrats admit they redrew in 2011 to make it harder for the Republican incumbent there to win re-election.The two cases hold the potential to set the course of American politics for generations. A decision to rein in partisan gerrymanders could reshape House maps in a number of states, largely but not exclusively to the benefit of Democrats. A decision not to rein in the mapmakers would give both political parties carte blanche to entrench themselves and hogtie their opponents when state legislatures draw the next decade’s House districts in 2021.The justices have dodged the issue of gerrymandering for decades, gridlocked over whether it is even possible to distinguish acceptably partisan maps from unconstitutional ones.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. worried aloud last year that creating a legal standard to identify partisan gerrymanders would turn the court into a sort of electoral kingmaker.But now the North Carolina House map could force him and other justices to confront the issue head-on. The redrawing of Maryland’s House map by Democrats was also baldly political, ousting a 20-year Republican incumbent by infusing the rural 6th District with tens of thousands of urban Democrats. But compared with the lawmakers in North Carolina, the Maryland Democrats were restrained, turning down maps that would have wiped out the state’s other Republican-leaning House district as well.Created three years ago, the North Carolina map was drawn for overtly partisan reasons. Indeed, the Republican chairman of the state House Elections Committee, Representative David R. Lewis, opened the drafting session by saying, “I acknowledge freely that this would be a political gerrymander.” Republicans ordered that the next map create “as many districts as possible in which G.O.P. candidates would be able to successfully compete for office.”The result, drawn by the master Republican redistricting strategist Thomas B. Hofeller, met that mandate. It anchored three overwhelmingly Democratic districts in liberal cities — Charlotte, Raleigh and Durham. The remaining urban strongholds, in Asheville, Fayetteville and Greensboro-Winston-Salem, were filleted along party lines, with their most Democratic areas absorbed by otherwise rural Republican territories.Democrats in the state had done their share of gerrymandering in the past, but it was nowhere near what the Republicans were now doing.The map eliminated any competition for House seats in all but the most exceptional circumstances. In November, amid the strongest national Democratic electoral performance since Watergate, only one of the 10 Republican-held House seats was in serious jeopardy (that race, in the 9th Congressional District, was marred by election fraud complaints and will be rerun this summer). Democrats won the three districts that were gerrymandered in their favor by an average of 45 percentage points.That highlights collateral damage from gerrymanders that is sometimes overlooked: Not only do they entrench a majority party, but they weaken the opposition as well. Candidates don’t want to run losing races, and donors and parties don’t want to support them.Pete Glidewell can testify to that. Mr. Glidewell, a real-estate agent and Democratic activist in Elon, about 15 miles from Greensboro, ran in 2016 against the incumbent Republican in the newly drawn Sixth Congressional District, Mark Walker. Mr. Walker had won in 2014 with nearly 59 percent of the vote; Mr. Glidewell was the only Democrat to oppose him. “I thought I was better qualified than him,” he said. “I still do.”Mr. Glidewell soon got a call from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the arm of the Democratic Party that doles out money and tactical support to House candidates. They were seeking a donation.“I said, ‘Ma’am, I am actually running for Congress in this district, and I wish you’d pass along that I need as much help as you say you do,’” he recalled. But to the committee, Mr. Glidewell was a lost cause. “They wouldn’t talk to me,” he said.In the campaign that followed, Mr. Glidewell’s largest contribution, $5,400, came from his wife. His campaign cost $93,300, most of it spent on internet advertising, yard signs and car magnets. “No television,” he said. “We couldn’t afford it.” Mr. Walker’s campaign spent more than that — $94,716, to be precise — on fund-raising consultants alone.That November, Mr. Walker shellacked Mr. Glidewell, 59 percent to 41 percent, and had more than $225,000 in unspent donations in the bank. Other incumbent House members have leftover funds from past campaigns, too — $2.4 million, in one case. “So it’s even more impossible to get a credible opponent,” Mr. Glidewell said.Tim Moreland is a Democratic political operative in Guilford County, where Greensboro is located. He said that uncompetitive districts lead to lazy incumbents, less-qualified challengers and election campaigns that provide little clarity.“We get a lot of politicians who have been in seats for a very long time,” he said. “They’ve never had to run a competitive election, or raise a lot of money, or work to build relationships with the other party. Input from the average voter matters less and less.”Some academics dispute it, but political veterans say gerrymanders widen political divisions because incumbents have no incentive to court moderates and swing voters.“If the most competitive race you’ve got is against some right-wing or left-wing person in the primary, and you don’t have to worry about the general election, you end up with representatives who aren’t really representative,” Thomas Mills, a onetime Democratic campaign consultant who ran his own losing campaign for a gerrymandered House seat in 2016, said in an interview.The case against partisan gerrymanders is not merely a Democratic one. Republican candidates in North Carolina’s three safe Democratic House seats also were disenfranchised, along with their supporters. So were Republicans in Maryland’s 6th District.The plaintiffs in the North Carolina and Maryland cases argue that the maps violate the Constitution in a number of ways. They say the maps effectively punish supporters of gerrymandered candidates for expressing their political preference, violating both the First Amendment and the Fourteenth Amendment, which guarantees equal treatment under the law.And they say the maps pervert Article One of the Constitution, whose rationale for frequent House elections was to make the chamber’s members more responsive to the American people. But with a gerrymander, they argue, the people have almost no voice.Yet even if a majority of the justices agree, that may not carry the day for the opponents of gerrymanders. The question of how to spot rigged maps still remains: Since no political map is completely free of bias, how do judges distinguish between the acceptable and the unacceptable?Defenders of North Carolina and Maryland’s maps say the court has no business trying, and will shred its reputation for above-the-fray fairness if it starts deciding whether maps favor one party or another. Partisan gerrymandering, they say, is a political issue best addressed by the politicians in Congress and the states.But that is precisely the issue, voting-rights advocates say: Gerrymanders are creations of lawmakers, who have seldom had much interest in curbing their own power.And the modern tools of map-drawing — powerful computers and software, and an unprecedented cascade of data on voters — have allowed drafters to turn political districts into near-impregnable fortresses that can sustain a party’s hold on power from one redistricting cycle to the next.“Because of the availability of data, we can aggregate voting patterns and organize them in a way that the political system can be controlled by decision makers,” said Douglas Berger, a Durham lawyer and a plaintiff in one of the North Carolina lawsuits.He speaks from experience. His firm’s political-action committee uses data analytics to assess a candidate’s prospects with ever-greater precision before deciding whether to donate to a campaign. Partly because of that, the PAC largely steers clear of supporting North Carolina candidates for the House.Yet technology may also provide an answer to the conundrum that has kept the court from acting.Social scientists have devised a host of new yardsticks in recent years for gauging partisan leanings in maps. Perhaps most important among them is that advances in computing now permit experts to randomly generate thousands and even millions of hypothetical maps, all drawn using the same criteria, that can be compared with the maps challenged in gerrymander trials. Mathematical formulas can then calculate whether a challenged map is part of the pack in its partisan tilt or is at the extremes — a “statistical outlier,” in redistricting parlance.That already has been done in the federal trial challenging the North Carolina gerrymander. There, an expert witness for the plaintiffs randomly generated 3,000 simulated congressional district maps using the same demographic data as the official map that has regularly awarded Republicans 10 of 13 seats.None of the 3,000 gave the party more than nine seats.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Elisabetta PovoledoROME — The Teatro alla Scala in Milan on Monday decided to return more than three million euros in funding to Saudi Arabia, amid growing criticism that Italy’s premier temple of music should not accept money from a country with a jarring human rights record.Mayor Giuseppe Sala said the theater’s board of directors had deliberated over the issue and “unanimously decided to return the money.” The directors blocked several ventures that had been under discussion, including allocating a board seat to Saudi Arabia’s culture minister in exchange for substantial investments.Mr. Sala and other Italian officials said Monday that the decision was not meant as a snub to the Saudis. It was based instead, they said, on other considerations, among them the legal implications of foreign membership on the theater’s board, which would have been a first.“There is no black list,” said Mr. Sala.But loud catcalls — a specialty of La Scala’s audiences, as it happens — rang out in Italy when news of a proposed accord between La Scala and the Saudi government was made public in recent weeks.Of special concern was the possibility that a Saudi official could sit on the board of the opera house. The current nine members represent municipal, regional and national governments, as well as Italian banks and the Italian oil giant Eni.Saudi Arabia’s human rights record has long been controversial, and was criticized anew after Saudi agents killed a Washington Post writer, Jamal Khashoggi, inside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul last October.Worldwide, companies and institutions have shied away from Saudi funding since the killing. This month, the talent agency Endeavor announced that it had returned a $400 million investment.Critics in Italy say the Saudi human rights record is discordant with the values of a democratic country embodied by La Scala.One Milanese society matron was quoted as saying that the conductor Arturo Toscanini would turn in his grave. A columnist for Corriere della Sera, Giangiacomo Schiavi, warned that Saudi Arabia, “a country that instead of respecting human rights, treads on them,” would gain legitimacy through La Scala.Some lawmakers joined the choir of dissent.Senator Maurizio Gasparri called on Italy’s culture minister to address Parliament on the issue. Italy’s deputy prime minister, Matteo Salvini, said he preferred “for some people” not to be on the board and “for La Scala to be free, independent and autonomous.”“If the Swiss want to invest in La Scala,” Mr. Salvini said, “we would not have a problem.”Similar outrage greeted the decision to stage a showcase soccer game, the Supercoppa, between the Italian teams Juventus and A.C. Milan in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, in January.Alexander Pereira, La Scala’s superintendent, began meeting with Saudi officials last year to come up with summer tour dates for performances in Riyadh for 2019 and 2020. The discussions broadened to include the possible establishment of a music and dance conservatory for children in Riyadh in conjunction with the  Accademia, La Scala’s arts schools.Saudi officials also broached the possibility of joining the theater’s board of administration, Mr. Pereira said in an interview published in La Repubblica, the Rome daily, earlier this month.To secure a spot on the 15-member board, a sponsor has to make a financial commitment of at least 15 million euros — about $17 million — over five years. The aspiring board member must also be approved by the board and by the theater’s assembly.Mr. Pereira told La Repubblica that the Saudis were eager to commit and that La Scala’s board had agreed that such an agreement “was an opportunity to grab onto.”Mr. Sala, who as mayor of Milan is president of the board, said he appreciated Mr. Pereira’s fund-raising and partnership-building skills, which have allowed the theater to flourish.But in the case of Saudi involvement, the mayor said, “discussions happened too quickly.” Mr. Pereira, he said, had “misunderstood the situation.”Mr. Sala said that the process for joining the board was “complex” and that, in the case of the Saudi culture minister, had never been officially initiated. The Saudis sent three million euros and the money was placed in an escrow account until the board could vote on their membership. The board rejected it on Monday.“We decided we don’t need other board members, the group is fine as is,” Mr. Sala said in a telephone interview.The mayor did, however, appear to leave the door a little open.“It’s true that there is no intention to have Saudis on the board,” he said, “but that doesn’t mean that there is a diktat against the Saudis, that we’re not open to other forms of collaboration.”Mr. Pereira declined to be interviewed, but Paolo Besana, the theater’s spokesman, confirmed that such substantial foreign investment would have been a first. “The theater’s statute allows for foreign members of the board,” he said, “but obviously this becomes more delicate if the member is a foreign state.”Mr. Besana said that the opening of the conservatory in Saudi Arabia had been placed on hold but that the organization of the summer tours there was continuing.Italy’s culture minister, Alberto Bonisoli, was among those expressing concerns about the presence of a “representative of a foreign government on the board of a cultural institution.” He said it could give rise to diplomatic crises should problems arise within the board, requiring ministerial oversight, his spokesman, Giorgio Giorgi said.But the minister also believes that “collaboration on cultural initiatives and projects” is an integral part of Italy’s cultural diplomacy, Mr. Giorgi said.Mr. Sala said he wanted to keep channels of communication open with Saudi Arabia. Though the country’s human rights abuses are “very critical,” he said, “sports or music can be ways to support change in that culture.”“We should try to find the right solution,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Hannah Beech and Muktita SuhartonoBANGKOK — A pro-military party in Thailand on Monday celebrated its lead in the vote count in this weekend’s elections, hinting that the army’s grip since seizing power in a 2014 coup would likely endure.The early result, which may not be finalized for days, signaled how Thailand, one of the most stable American allies in Southeast Asia, allows the military to dominate governance, even as other countries in the region have kept soldiers away from politics.The Sunday vote also showed how the Thai military, which has orchestrated a dozen coups over the past nine decades, is using a fresh tactic: elections to entrench its power.While voting may nurture democracy elsewhere, Thailand’s political system is strangled by complicated rules designed to perpetuate the military’s authority. Neither the popular vote nor the number of contested seats in this parliamentary election will have much of a democratizing effect.A full unofficial count of the vote was not expected until late this week. The official results might not be released until early May.A partial count showed that a populist party, Pheu Thai, which lagged in the popular vote, had nonetheless so far collected the largest number of parliamentary seats — 137 in the 500-seat Lower House. The party represents the interests of Thaksin Shinawatra, a polarizing former prime minister as beloved by the rural poor as he is disdained by the establishment elite.Still, forces loyal to Prayuth Chan-ocha, the leader of the junta that orchestrated the 2014 coup, said he appeared poised to continue as prime minister. The pro-military party that nominated him, Palang Pracharat, had so far collected just 97 seats in the Lower House but had more of the popular vote than its populist rival.Because the country’s military-drafted Constitution ensures that the 250-member Senate is entirely appointed by the military, Mr. Prayuth may be able to count on enough votes from both sides of Parliament to keep the top job.In an unusual twist in a parliamentary democracy, a candidate for prime minister in Thailand need not be an elected member of Parliament.Purawich Watanasukh, a research fellow at King Prajadhipok’s Institute in Thailand, said he was “quite surprised” with the military party’s strong performance in the popular vote. Mr. Purawich was among many analysts who had predicted that Mr. Prayuth’s perceived lack of popularity might hurt him.Regardless, support for the junta was stacked even before voting began. And the vote was filled with reports of irregularities and concerns about repeated delays in announcing the results.Uttama Savanayana, Palang Pracharat’s party leader, said in a news conference on Monday afternoon that “we have stated from the beginning that any party that gets the most votes is able to form a government.”Kobsak Pootrakool, a spokesman for Palang Pracharat, said that “the votes from the people are the voice from heaven,” before acknowledging that the work of coalition-making still loomed.On Friday, Mr. Prayuth, a former army chief with an ambivalent attitude toward democracy, spoke of his commitment to his homeland.“I love Thailand, and I would die for this country,” he said at a political rally.On Monday afternoon, the Election Commission, which was appointed by the junta, delayed for the third time releasing its unofficial count for unexplained reasons. Such postponements had never occurred, Thai election experts said.The commission then said winners of 350 seats would be announced first, but results for the remaining 150 seats would take at least four more days.With reports of irregularities increasing, the delays made election monitors nervous.“My understanding is that the Election Commission has an obligation to continue counting the ballots through the night, so this is potentially problematic or illegal,” said Pandit Chanrochanakit, the deputy dean of the political science department at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok.Before the elections, diplomats in Bangkok warned that any delay in announcing the results might raise concerns, especially since relatively few independent election observers had been deployed.Mr. Pandit said hundreds of students organized by a scholars’ alliance that had spread across the country to observe had found “some problems that make this election not free or fair.”The number of invalidated ballots was nearly 6 percent, the commission said, and 1.5 percent of ballots recorded no vote at all.Sudarat Keyuraphan, Pheu Thai’s candidate for prime minister, urged normal politics to prevail.“No matter the outcome, whichever party obtains the majority vote should get to form a coalition government first,” she said. “We don’t want to fight with anyone for power.”In May, when the official election results might be released, the country will be marking the coronation of King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun.In a constitutional monarchy with some of the world’s harshest royal defamation laws, any political instability before then could be viewed as detrimental to national unity.Anti-junta forces are composed of both working-class people loyal to Mr. Thaksin’s populist party and an urban elite weary of polarized politics.“I have my own voice now, and I want a new voice to fix the country and bring the country into a better direction with a better economy,” said Panita Dispueng, a university student and first-time voter.Future Forward, a new party founded by Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, an heir to an auto parts fortune, won a surprising number of seats in the partial count of Sunday’s elections, a remarkable feat for a party that didn’t exist a year ago.Mr. Thanathorn, one of the junta’s staunchest critics, has called for the nation’s military budget to be slashed.Much remains unknown about how politics will unfold in the coming months, especially since the military-drafted Constitution has introduced byzantine regulations.In the meantime, some of the pro-democracy parties are facing potential existential crises. Pheu Thai could be dissolved if outstanding complaints against the party move forward.Mr. Thaksin, the spiritual godfather of the Pheu Thai party, is in overseas exile after corruption-linked convictions, as is his sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, another former prime minister.Other parties, including Future Forward, have criminal cases against their executives hanging over them. Mr. Thanathorn, of Future Forward, could find out as early as Tuesday whether he will face jail time for a computer crimes charge that stemmed from a Facebook Live video he gave last year.Human rights groups say the charge, which his deputy also faces, is politically motivated.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Timothy Williams and Elizabeth DiasST. LOUIS — The United Methodist Church on Tuesday voted to strengthen its ban on gay and lesbian clergy and same-sex marriages, a decision that could split the nation’s second-largest Protestant church.After three days of intense debate at a conference in St. Louis, the vote by church officials and lay members from around the world doubled down on current church policy, which states that “the practice of homosexuality is incompatible with Christian teaching.” The vote served as a rejection of a push by progressive members and leaders to open the church to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people.Now, a divide of the United Methodist Church, which has 12 million members worldwide, appears imminent. Some pastors and bishops in the United States are already talking about leaving the denomination and possibly creating a new alliance for gay-friendly churches.“It is time for another movement,” the Rev. Mike Slaughter, pastor emeritus of Ginghamsburg Church in Ohio, said in a phone interview from the floor of the conference. “We don’t even know what that is yet, but it is something new.”The decision, passed in a 53 percent to 47 percent vote, is the latest eruption in the fight over the future of American Christianity and over whose views of human sexuality are enshrined as Christian.Conservatives have left the Episcopal Church over gay rights, Presbyterians have split, and many young evangelicals are leaving their churches over the lack of inclusion of L.G.B.T. people.Meanwhile, the nation is becoming increasingly less Christian, and the share of religiously unaffiliated Americans is growing. As mainline denominations that embrace gay rights continue to decline in membership, conservative Christian institutions are growing in power and financial resources.The seven million members of the United Methodist Church in the United States often do not fit within easy political categories. Second only to the Southern Baptist Convention in size, the church includes high-profile figures with a range of political beliefs, from Hillary Clinton to Jeff Sessions, the Republican former attorney general.Just over half of Methodists say they are Republican, compared with 35 percent who say they are Democrats. The majority of adherents believe abortion should be legal, and more than half are in favor of stricter regulations to protect the environment.But the issue of gay rights has proved uniquely divisive in the church, and Tuesday’s vote reflected the growing clout of Methodists from outside the United States. The tightening of enforcement of church law was backed by a coalition of members from African nations, the Philippines and European and American evangelicals.While membership has steadily declined in the United States over the past 25 years — a trend that is true for most mainline Protestant denominations — it has been growing in Africa. About 30 percent of the church’s members are now from African nations, which typically have conservative Christian views; in many of them, homosexuality is a crime.But in the United States, the vote poses a significant risk for a denomination that struggles to attract young people. United Methodists have one of the oldest religious populations in the country, with a median age of 57.Some leaders of Methodist seminaries like Duke Divinity School or Candler School of Theology at Emory worry that this week’s move will dissuade young Americans, who increasingly support gay rights, from going into ministry with the church.“This feels like one generation locking down the church for the next,” said William H. Willimon, a retired bishop of the United Methodist Church and a professor at Duke Divinity School. “That’s a death sentence.”In recent years, progressive American members, including gays and lesbians, have been hopeful about greater inclusion. Six in 10 United Methodists in the United States believe homosexuality should be accepted.Some congregations have celebrated same-sex weddings and had gay, lesbian and transgender pastors, at times receiving church approval to do so even though it technically violated church policy. Punishment of those who violated the rules has been uneven, and church trials for the few who were sanctioned have been unpopular.[Read more here about the competing plans for the future of the United Methodist Church.]The new rules would tighten enforcement and increase punishment for violations. For instance, clergy who officiate at same-sex weddings could receive a minimum one-year, unpaid suspension, and a second offense could result in removal from the clergy. Some items in the plan need to be reviewed by the Methodists’ judicial council.The Rev. Susan Henry-Crowe, who leads one of the church’s prominent administrative agencies, called the plan “punitive” in a statement, and said that the conference had brought “unbearable pain” to the denomination. “The wound may one day be healed by the grace of God,” she said, “but the scar left behind will be visible forever.”For many, the church’s slogan, “Open Hearts. Open Minds. Open Doors,” now feels shattered.Soon after the vote, protests erupted in the center of the arena where the conference had been held — a former football stadium known as The Dome. Some delegates began singing church songs and chanting, “We’re queer,” and “This is our church!”“My kids’ friends are not going to come into the church unless I can tell them about the love part of our church, not just the judgment part,” said David Livingston, 45, a pastor from Kansas.At the same time, conservatives celebrated their narrow victory. Tom Lambrecht, 64, an ordained elder from Texas, said the denomination must uphold its traditions if it is to survive. If progressives are ultimately unable to agree with that approach, he said it would be best for them to leave the denomination so that Methodists could devote more time on ministry and less on what he called “social issues.”“We need to be faithful to the traditional standard of marriage,” he said. “No organization allows its members to consistently disobey the rules.”Marina Yugay, a member from Russia, said that her concerns about same-sex marriage had made her uncomfortable with the more progressive direction of many American Methodists.“We do need to praise God and multiply and same-sex marriage will not allow us to multiply,” she said. “If you do not agree with this, you are violating the law of the creator.”What happens next hinges on questions that are not just theological, but financial. For entire congregations to leave, they would most likely need to reach settlement agreements related to the potential transfer of church property, and liabilities related to the church’s $23 billion pension fund.Major seminaries at universities like Emory and Duke, which have supported their gay, lesbian, and transgender students, risk losing grants and funding from more influential, and conservative, churches.Methodism has been a major force in American life since before the Revolutionary War, and eventually grew to include a significant African-American membership in the African Methodist Episcopal Church and the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church. The denomination has split about a dozen times in its history, notably over slavery and race.As the Methodist conference ended, truckloads of dirt were being readied outside the arena for a monster truck event. The hundreds of Methodist pastors began to leave, wondering how to move forward.Matt Miofsky, 41, leads one of the fastest growing United Methodist churches in the country, called The Gathering in St. Louis.“I want people to know that The Gathering, and a lot of churches like it all over the country, want to welcome L.G.B.T.Q. people,” he said. “We are going to pursue a fully inclusive vision for ministry.”Timothy Williams reported from St. Louis, and Elizabeth Dias from Washington.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe Long RunBy Lisa LererIt was a new era in Washington in 1981, and abortion rights activists were terrified.With an anti-abortion president, Ronald Reagan, in power and Republicans controlling the Senate for the first time in decades, social conservatives pushed for a constitutional amendment to allow individual states to overturn Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court ruling that had made abortion legal nationwide several years earlier.The amendment — which the National Abortion Rights Action League called “the most devastating attack yet on abortion rights” — cleared a key hurdle in the Senate Judiciary Committee in March 1982. Support came not only from Republicans but from a 39-year-old, second-term Democrat: Joseph R. Biden Jr.“I’m probably a victim, or a product, however you want to phrase it, of my background,” Mr. Biden, a Roman Catholic, said at the time. The decision, he said, was “the single most difficult vote I’ve cast as a U.S. senator.”The bill never made it to the full Senate, and when it came back up the following year, Mr. Biden voted against it. His back-and-forth over abortion would become a hallmark of his political career.As Mr. Biden prepares for the possibility of a third presidential run, women’s rights leaders and activists in both parties are recalling these shifts on abortion, which are likely to draw fresh scrutiny in a Democratic primary race where women are expected to make up a majority of voters.[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.]Mr. Biden entered the Senate in 1973 as a 30-year-old practicing Catholic who soon concluded that the Supreme Court went “too far” on abortion rights in the Roe case. He told an interviewer the following year that a woman shouldn’t have the “sole right to say what should happen to her body.” By the time he left the vice president’s mansion in early 2017, he was a 74-year-old who argued a far different view: that government doesn’t have “a right to tell other people that women, they can’t control their body,” as he put it in 2012.Abortion has long been a difficult issue for Catholic Democrats and leaders including former Gov. Mario Cuomo of New York, Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania and Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia. Many Catholic Democrats in government have cited their faith in explaining their personal opposition to abortion while taking stands to support abortion rights — and, in some cases, also holding positions in favor of some abortion restrictions. A Pew Research Center poll last fall showed Catholics divided on whether abortion should be legal.But some of Mr. Biden’s more moderate-to-conservative stances in his legislative record are raising questions in the party about whether he could win over an ascendant liberal wing eager to impose purity tests around issues of race and gender in 2020.Even before announcing a candidacy, Mr. Biden has started trying to rebut those concerns, telling party officials in Delaware this month that he has “the most progressive record” of anyone running for president.But the issue of abortion poses particularly challenging terrain for Mr. Biden. Efforts to restrict access to abortion by the Trump administration, and the new conservative majority on the Supreme Court, have heightened concerns among many Democrats that federal protections of abortion rights could be chipped away or eventually overturned — and that the next president needs to be a dependable ally on abortion issues.“Anxiety is super high among women across the country,” said Ilyse Hogue, president of the abortion rights organization Naral Pro-Choice America. “Joe Biden is trying to carve out a space for himself as the middle, moderate candidate, and he’s going to have to really get with the times and understand that standing with abortion rights is the middle, moderate position.”She added, “I can’t tell you if he’s there or not.”Mr. Biden is already facing criticism from some women’s rights activists over his aggressive questioning of Anita Hill during the Supreme Court confirmation hearings of Judge Clarence Thomas in 1991. Mr. Biden’s comment Tuesday that he wished he “could have done something” to give Ms. Hill’s claims of sexual harassment a more respectful hearing drew fierce backlash from critics, who pointed out that Mr. Biden was chairman of the Senate committee that questioned Ms. Hill. Some women’s rights leaders say Mr. Biden must offer a stronger and more personal apology to Ms. Hill, as well as clarify his views on a broad range of issues including sexual assault, harassment and Republicans’ efforts to limit abortion access. (Mr. Biden has spoken warmly about some Republicans and bipartisanship in recent months.)[Read Michelle Goldberg’s column about how the abortion divide is getting deeper in states.]Mr. Biden declined to be interviewed for this article. His spokesman, Bill Russo, said the former vice president is a supporter of the Roe decision who fought to protect abortion rights by mounting a fierce opposition to the nomination of a conservative judge, Robert H. Bork, to the Supreme Court in 1987.“Because of that, Roe and its progeny have been preserved for 30 years. But for that effort, Roe v. Wade would not be the law of the land today,” Mr. Russo said.Mr. Russo declined to detail Mr. Biden’s current views on specific policies he once supported, including banning all federal funding for abortion services and research.What is clear from a review of Mr. Biden’s record in the Senate, his public statements as vice president and interviews about his comments in private meetings is that his position on abortion grew more liberal over his four decades in federal office.“I’m prepared to accept that at the moment of conception there’s human life and being, but I’m not prepared to say that to other God-fearing, non-God-fearing people that have a different view,” he told the Catholic magazine America in 2015.Mr. Biden has cast his evolution as a matter of wrestling with the teachings of his faith. But his shifting views also reflect a political calculation about the changing mores of his party in the 1980s and 1990s, when many moderate Democratic leaders, including Al Gore and Bill Clinton, altered their skeptical positions on abortion. Mr. Clinton, for one, sought to stake out a center-left position by saying abortion should be “safe, legal and rare.”Today, every candidate in the 2020 field supports abortion rights, with a dozen boasting a perfect scorecard from Naral Pro-Choice America.[Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.]“The benevolent reinvention of Joe Biden is what’s unfolding,” said the Rev. Derrick Harkins, the former head of religious outreach for the Democratic National Committee, who was once criticized for what some party activists saw as conservative views on abortion. “His perspectives around a number of issues over the years were reflective of a different context and maybe even, if you will, a different time.”In interviews during his first decades in the Senate, Mr. Biden said he supported the right to an abortion but opposed federal funding to pay for it. That position was shared by Mr. Gore and other Democrats who wanted to support abortion rights but were uncomfortable making taxpayers who were anti-abortion pay for it.As Mr. Biden put it to U.P.I. in 1986, “If it’s not government’s business, then you have to accept the whole of that concept, which means you don’t proscribe your right to have an abortion and you don’t take your money to assist someone else to have an abortion.”In the 1980s, he repeatedly voted against funding abortions as part of the health care plan provided to federal employees and in federal prisons, except in cases where it was medically necessarily for the mother.In 1981, he crafted the Biden amendment to ban the use of foreign aid for biomedical research related to abortion. He repeatedly voted for the so-called Hyde amendment prohibiting the use of federal funds for abortion, including through Medicaid. Both policies remain in place today, despite efforts by Democrats to end the ban on the use of federal funds.In 1984, Mr. Biden supported an amendment praising the Reagan administration’s “Mexico City policy,” which banned federal funding for organizations around the world that provide abortion counseling or referrals. In 2005, he voted against it, supporting an amendment that would have nullified President George W. Bush’s reinstatement of the policy.A voter guide put out in 1987 by two abortion rights groups described Mr. Biden as having an “erratic” record on reproductive rights, writing that he had a “mixed voting and rhetorical record on the issue of whether women should have the right to choose an abortion.”“Joe Biden moans a lot and then usually votes against us,” Jeannie Rosoff, a founder of the abortion rights research organization Guttmacher Institute, told The Wall Street Journal as Mr. Biden weighed whether to enter the 1988 presidential race. “It’s very difficult to know whether this issue is purely personal, purely political or a combination of both with him.”At the time, opponents of abortion rights say they saw him much the same way as liberals: “Unreliable,” said Marilyn Musgrave, a former Republican congresswoman from Colorado and current vice president of government affairs for the Susan B. Anthony List, an anti-abortion group.“I don’t believe he’s made a public statement recently about funding, so I don’t know where he really stands on that now,” said Ms. Musgrave. “Perhaps he evolved on that also.”Aides to Mr. Biden declined to say whether he still supports those specific policies.As the years went on, abortion rights advocates recall, Mr. Biden spoke passionately in meetings about how his religious beliefs shaped his views on abortion. And they, with equal emotion, worked to reframe the issue as a matter of trusting women and their doctors to manage their health care.“Biden’s struggle was genuine and heartfelt,” said Kristina Kiehl, an abortion rights activist who met with Mr. Biden during the 1980s and 1990s. “And I think we were very helpful in kind of guiding him into how this is O.K. and it’s the right thing to do.”As chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1987, Mr. Biden drew praise from supporters of abortion rights for sharply questioning Judge Bork about his opposition to a ruling that struck down birth control bans. In Congress, Mr. Biden repeatedly voted to give access to abortion services for members of the military, and in 1994 he voted to establish fines and penalties for barring access to abortion clinics. In interviews and congressional votes, he defended the Roe ruling.But at other times, he sided with Republicans and conservative Democrats who were trying to limit abortion access.When Republicans began introducing legislation in the 1990s that would outlaw a rare abortion procedure they termed “partial-birth abortion,” Mr. Biden emerged as a reliable ally. He voted for the ban, and then against efforts by President Clinton to veto the legislation in 1996 and 1998.Those proposals did not prohibit a wide enough range of procedures, he argued in a speech on the Senate floor in 1997.“It did not, as I would have liked, ban all post-viability abortions,” he said, backing a proposal by Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic majority leader, that would include an exception if the mother’s health was at risk. “I was and still am concerned that in banning on partial-birth abortions, we do not go far enough.”In 2003, he backed a third ban that included no exception for the health of the mother, sponsored by Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania. That law moved through the courts for several years before being upheld by the Supreme Court in April 2007.By that point in his career, Mr. Biden was running for president for a second time against Senators Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, both of whom had voted against bans of the procedure. Mr. Biden cast himself as a strong supporter of abortion rights and criticized the court’s ruling as “paternalistic,” worrying that it could be a step toward overturning Roe.“I was 29 years old when I came to the U.S. Senate, and I have learned a lot,” he said in a 2007 interview with NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “Look, I’m a practicing Catholic, and it is the biggest dilemma for me in terms of comporting my religious and cultural views with my political responsibility.”When Mr. Obama picked him as vice president more than a year later, some abortion rights advocates worried about Mr. Biden’s record. But they felt confident that Mr. Obama’s more liberal views on the issue would prevail, recalled Kate Michelman, a former leader of Naral.“Joe Biden continued his evolution on the issue under Obama. He got there,” she said. “I can’t say for absolute, 100 percent, but I would trust him as president to protect and defend women’s right to choose.”Kitty Bennett and Isabella Grullón Paz contributed research.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas Fandos and Charlie SavageWASHINGTON — William P. Barr on Tuesday cleared a crucial hurdle for his nomination as attorney general, virtually assuring his confirmation this week to take over the Justice Department — and oversee the investigation into links between the Trump campaign and Russia’s election-manipulation operations.The Senate voted largely along party lines, 55 to 44, to limit debate on Mr. Barr’s nomination and move to a final up-or-down vote, likely on Thursday. It signals that he has enough support in the Republican-controlled chamber to prevail.“When it comes to Bill Barr, I can only tell my Democratic colleagues, there is nobody better I know to recommend to you,” said Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, the Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee, ticking through Mr. Barr’s record on the Senate floor shortly after the vote.A handful of senators broke ranks, however. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, a libertarian-leaning Republican who had expressed concerns about Mr. Barr’s sweeping view of executive power, voted against him. But Senators Doug Jones of Alabama, Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, and Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, Democrats who represent conservative or swing states, voted for him.The fight over Mr. Barr’s nomination has centered on demands by Democrats that he pledge to make public any final report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, describing the findings of his investigation, which is believed to be nearing an end. Mr. Barr pledged to be as transparent as possible, but he also said that he could not make any commitments, both because such a report might contain some information that must remain secret, such as grand-jury testimony, and because he did not know what Mr. Mueller might produce.In defending that stance, Mr. Barr promised to obey Justice Department regulations for special counsel investigations, created by the Clinton administration in 1999 after the independent counsel at the time, Ken Starr, produced a lengthy and salacious report about President Bill Clinton’s affair with Monica Lewinsky. Those rules do not envision a lengthy report going directly from the investigator to Congress and the public. Rather, they envision a report to the attorney general, who then sends a separate notification to Congress explaining that the investigation has ended.Republicans said they trusted Mr. Barr to keep his word and protect the investigation.“I can promise you this, Mr. Barr will make sure Mr. Mueller can finish his job without political interference,” Mr. Graham said. “He said that. I believe that. And that’s how this movie has to end.”Democrats at Mr. Barr’s confirmation hearing were not satisfied with his evasions, though, and the Senate Judiciary Committee vote to send his nomination to the floor last week fell along partisan lines. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, has also criticized Mr. Barr’s stance about the same issue, contributing to Democrats’ show of opposition to his confirmation in the cloture vote.“He is another person who is going to be very loyal to the president,” Senator Mazie K. Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii and a member of the Judiciary Committee who voted no, said in an interview. “He is a supporter of what is known as a unitary president, which is a president with a lot of powers, and we hardly need to give this president more powers than he already thinks he has.”Nevertheless, Mr. Barr is virtually certain to be confirmed. That would bring him back for a rare second stint in the same cabinet-level position that he held in a previous era. Mr. Barr served as attorney general from 1991 to 1993, under President George Bush, before spending the last quarter-century as a corporate lawyer — much of it with the telecommunications company that became Verizon.It would also end a turbulent chapter in the history of the Justice Department that traces back to the decision by Mr. Trump’s first attorney general, Jeff Sessions, to recuse himself from overseeing the Russia investigation, leaving the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, as acting head of the department for the purpose of that investigation.Mr. Rosenstein appointed Mr. Mueller as special counsel and protected the investigation from interference, even as Mr. Trump raged at the Justice Department and repeatedly lashed out at Mr. Sessions for what he viewed as a betrayal. That tension reached a crescendo in November, the day after Democrats’ victories in the 2018 midterm election, when Mr. Trump ousted Mr. Sessions.Breaking with the normal order of succession for the Justice Department, Mr. Trump then installed as acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, a White House loyalist with ties to a company that had been shut down for fraud. Democrats were deeply suspicious of Mr. Whitaker, who had openly denigrated the Mueller investigation and unsuccessfully interviewed in 2017 for the job of the chief White House lawyer charged with defending against it. Many saw his appointment as illegitimate.Their criticism surged when Mr. Whitaker rejected the advice of career department ethics lawyers that he, too, recuse himself from overseeing the Russia investigation. At a House Judiciary Committee hearing last week, Mr. Whitaker testified that he had told Mr. Trump’s circle none of the information he received in briefings, and said he had taken no steps to interfere with Mr. Mueller’s work.Meanwhile, Mr. Trump nominated Mr. Barr, who was known during the first Bush administration for his unusually strong interpretation of the presidency’s executive powers. That choice also attracted intense scrutiny. Among other things, Mr. Barr had publicly declared in 2017 that he saw more reason to investigate Hillary Clinton over a conservative conspiracy theory involving a uranium deal the Obama administration had approved while she was secretary of state than to investigate any collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.It also emerged that in June 2018, he had taken it upon himself to write a lengthy legal memo for the Trump administration, which he also shared with Mr. Trump’s outside legal team, arguing that Mr. Trump wielded unchecked power to “start or stop a law enforcement proceeding” and so Mr. Mueller should therefore not be permitted to investigate whether Mr. Trump committed obstruction of justice for pressuring the former F.B.I. director, James B. Comey Jr., to drop an investigation into a top aide.But at his confirmation hearing in January, Mr. Barr walked back or qualified some of his early writings on executive power, putting greater emphasis on the Justice Department’s independence and legal limits on the presidency. And he vowed to let Mr. Mueller finish his work, saying he would resist any effort to fire him without good cause.Follow Nicholas Fandos and Charlie Savage on Twitter: @npfandos and @charlie_savage.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — It started as a resolution condemning anti-Semitism. Then, anti-Muslim bias was added in. After that came white supremacy. And by the end, it cited “African-Americans, Native Americans, and other people of color, Jews, Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, immigrants and others” victimized by bigotry.The resolution condemning “hateful expressions of intolerance,” which passed the House by an overwhelming 407-to-23 vote Thursday afternoon, was as much a statement of Democrats’ values as their factionalism. Caught in the middle was Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who worked for days to quell the internal uproar that erupted after a freshman Democrat, Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, insinuated that backers of Israel exhibit dual loyalty.“I see everything as an opportunity,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters Thursday morning as she announced the vote. “This is an opportunity once again to declare as strongly as possible opposition to anti-Semitism, anti-Muslim statements” and “white supremacist attitudes.”The carefully crafted measure — one Democratic aide called it a “kitchen-sink resolution” — capped an emotional week for Democrats, who found themselves divided along racial and religious lines as they debated how to respond to Ms. Omar.In the end, only Republicans voted no. One, Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, who was stripped of his committee assignments this year after a history of bigoted comments, voted present.[What do Ms. Omar’s constituents think about her comments on Israel? It’s complicated.]The resolution states that “whether from the political right, center or left, bigotry, discrimination, oppression, racism and imputations of dual loyalty threaten American democracy and have no place in American political discourse.” It also evokes white supremacist attacks in Charlottesville, Va., Charleston, S.C., and Pittsburgh as well as numerous attacks on Muslims and mosques.Republicans mocked its all-inclusive approach. “We left out the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we left out Wiccans, we left out Jehovah’s Witnesses, we left out disabled people!” Representative Doug Collins, the top Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, exclaimed shortly before the measure came to a vote, adding, “What makes you feel good doesn’t always heal you.”Some veteran Jewish Democrats, who had pushed for a measure that would solely condemn anti-Semitism, were equally dismayed.“We are having this debate because of the language of one of our colleagues, language that suggests Jews like me who serve in the United States in Congress and whose father earned a purple heart fighting the Nazis in the Battle of the Bulge, that we are not loyal Americans,” Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida, said Thursday morning in an emotional speech on the House floor.See how each representative voted.“Why are we unable to singularly condemn anti-Semitism?” Mr. Deutch asked. “Why can’t we call it anti-Semitism and show we’ve learned the lessons of history?”Representative Lee Zeldin of New York, one of two Jewish Republicans in the House, voted no, calling the final resolution “spineless and disgusting,” adding, “If a Republican member was pushing the anti-Semitism that Representative Omar keeps peddling, this resolution would name names.”But Ms. Pelosi told reporters that the resolution was not aimed at Ms. Omar.“It’s not about her; it’s about these forms of hatred,” Ms. Pelosi said.Ms. Omar, one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, has been fending off accusations of anti-Semitism for weeks. But she herself has been the target of Islamophobic bigotry; a poster recently appeared in West Virginia linking her to the attacks of Sept. 11. She voted in favor of the resolution and left the House floor without saying anything.But she issued a statement with the two other Muslim members of Congress — Representatives Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and André Carson of Indiana — that hailed the day as historic, noting, “It’s the first time we have voted on a resolution condemning anti-Muslim bigotry in our nation’s history.”The resolution was the product of a deal brokered by Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, whose district has the highest Jewish population of any congressional district; Representative Jamie Raskin of Maryland, a leading Jewish progressive; and Representative Cedric L. Richmond, Democrat of Louisiana and a former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.Those three members served as a bridge, people familiar with the talks said, between Mr. Deutch and other veteran Jewish lawmakers; the Congressional Progressive Caucus, which wanted no resolution; and the black caucus, whose members complained that black people have been the victim of racism for years — with no congressional resolution condemning it.As she spoke to reporters Thursday morning, Ms. Pelosi took a shot at President Trump and his equivocal statements after the deadly white supremacist march in Charlottesville: “The president may think there are good people on both sides; we don’t share that view.”The debate over anti-Semitism and bigotry has dominated discussion on Capitol Hill all week, overshadowing the Democrats’ agenda and giving Republicans an opening to attack while Democrats were busy fighting among themselves. Democrats were hoping to get the fight over Ms. Omar out of the way before they vote Friday on one of their signature pieces of legislation, the democracy overhaul bill, known as H.R. 1.The fracas erupted over the weekend, after Ms. Omar said that pro-Israel activists were pushing “for allegiance to a foreign country” — a remark that critics in both parties said played into the anti-Semitic trope of “dual loyalty.”Mr. Deutch and Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, on which Ms. Omar sits, conferred with leadership about how to respond and drafted a resolution condemning anti-Semitism.But Ms. Omar’s supporters, especially younger black lawmakers, said she was being singled out for unfair treatment. Tensions boiled over on Wednesday in a closed-door meeting of House Democrats.Mr. Richmond made an impassioned appeal, ticking off episodes of black men being shot down by the police, and racially inflammatory comments by Mr. Trump, none of which, he told his colleagues, resulted in congressional resolutions.“I’m just trying to figure out what the litmus test is here,” one person in the room recalled Mr. Richmond saying.The debate before the vote seemed to underline that concern. Among the Republicans who spoke on the House floor were Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida, who once took a notorious Holocaust denier to a State of the Union address, and Representative Louie Gohmert of Texas, who falsely accused the Jewish philanthropist George Soros of collaborating with the Nazis. (He was a child during World War II.)The resolution lays out in detail the “insidious and pernicious history” of accusations of dual loyalty, including discrimination against Muslims after the Sept. 11 attacks, the internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II, questions that President John F. Kennedy faced about his Roman Catholic faith and the Dreyfus affair, in which Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish French artillery captain, was falsely convicted of passing secrets to Germany based on his Jewish background.It also says: “White supremacists in the United States have exploited and continue to exploit bigotry and weaponize hate for political gain, targeting traditionally persecuted peoples, including African-Americans, Native Americans, and other people of color, Jews, Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, immigrants and others with verbal attacks, incitement and violence.”The vote on the measure comes just weeks after Ms. Omar apologized for saying on Twitter that support for Israel was “all about the Benjamins baby,” a reference to $100 bills that critics said echoed a common anti-Semitic belief that Jewish money is controlling foreign policy.Ms. Pelosi stopped short of asking for another apology from Ms. Omar, saying: “It’s up to her to explain. But I do not believe that she understood the full weight of her words.”But if Ms. Pelosi believed she was smoothing over divisions among Democrats, another member of leadership — Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the Democratic whip, gave critics a new cause with an interview in The Hill newspaper. In it, he was quoted as saying that Ms. Omar, who fled war in her native Somalia as a child and spent four years in a refugee camp in Kenya, had more personal experiences with bigotry than those who are generations removed from the Holocaust, the Japanese internment camps of World War II and the other violent episodes of the past.“I’m serious about that,” the newspaper quoted Mr. Clyburn as saying. “There are people who tell me, ‘Well, my parents are Holocaust survivors.’ ‘My parents did this.’ It’s more personal with her. I’ve talked to her, and I can tell you she is living through a lot of pain.”Mr. Zeldin responded, “Whip Clyburn’s comments are disgusting, making light of the Holocaust and minimizing its massive importance and impact on victims’ families, survivors, and the world.”videoAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Dionne SearceyABUJA, Nigeria — Officials declared early Wednesday that Muhammadu Buhari had won a second term as president of Africa’s most populous country, where voters rejected a corruption-stained candidate in favor of a leader who promised to continue a campaign to eliminate graft.Not long after midnight, election officials finished counting the votes, making it apparent that Mr. Buhari had defeated the leading candidate, Atiku Abubakar, by a wide margin in an election that was marred by pockets of violence. He was declared the winner shortly before 5 a.m.On Wednesday morning, Mr. Abubakar released a statement calling the results a “sham election” and saying that he would contest the outcome in court. He cited what he called a “statistical impossibility” of the results in some states — where turnout was high despite the fact that life there has been upended by war — as well as anomalies in states that are opposition strongholds.Referring to violence in some states in the south where, he said, soldiers had fired on civilians, Mr. Abubakar added, “The militarization of the electoral process is a disservice to our democracy and a throwback to the jackboot era of military dictatorship.”Local civil society groups had also ticked off lists of irregularities during the voting. At one point Mr. Abubakar’s had party demanded a halt to the counting. Some international observers had indicated earlier in the week that the problems likely hadn’t been widespread enough to sway the outcome.But violence did punctuate the voting on Saturday, and civil society groups decried the deaths of at least 39 people killed across several states. One of the victims was a young election worker struck by a stray bullet.Also on Wednesday morning, Mr. Buhari said he planned to keep working to improve security and the economy, and to fight corruption. He asked supporters “not to gloat or humiliate the opposition. Victory is enough reward for your efforts.”Nigeria’s election was in many ways a referendum on honesty, as voters once again embraced a candidate who held up a broom at rallies, declaring to sweep away the graft that has given the nation a bad reputation worldwide.It was also a tribute to the power of incumbency. For all Mr. Buhari’s talk of fighting corruption, some prominent suspects — including a governor caught on camera handing out a bribe — have gone unprosecuted under his regime. Critics say he targeted political opponents in his antigraft inquiries.Yet the president, who is 76, managed to overcome his deficits, and in some ways benefited from them. Turnout was low on Election Day, a factor that buoyed the president’s fortunes since his loyalists were among those who bothered to vote  in a race that had once been too close to call. Some analysts said many voters had stayed away from the polls because of despondency over the failures of the past four years.“There’s a growing sense of disconnect between the Nigerian people and the political elite,” said Hussaini Abdu, chairman of the Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth and Advancement, a team of local observers, speaking before the results were announced.Another factor was that election officials decided to delay the vote by a week just hours before polls were to have opened. Numerous registered voters had made long journeys to their home districts to vote, because Nigeria has no absentee balloting system. When officials postponed the election, many people simply gave up and returned home.Voters rejected Mr. Abubakar, 72, a former vice president who was considered so corrupt by the United States that he was refused a visa for many years.But Mr. Abubakar’s campaign focused on an issue that resonated with many voters: improving the economy. His raft of proposals included privatizing some government operations and floating the currency.Many people blamed Mr. Buhari for his decisions during a currency crisis that launched Nigeria into recession. Yet it was also under his watch that the nation lifted out of recession in 2017. Progress since then has been slow, however, and unemployment has climbed.Last year, Nigeria, one of the world’s largest oil producers and Africa’s biggest economy, was named the nation with the largest number of people living in extreme poverty.In the weeks leading up to the election, it was unclear which candidate had leverage in a race that had more than 70 candidates on the ballot. It came down to two members of the political establishment in their 70s. Mr. Abubakar received more votes than Mr. Buhari in the area that makes up the capital city. Fiery rhetoric flew on both sides — Mr. Abubakar called Mr. Buhari a dictator at one point — and after the election each side accused the other of vote-rigging.But many Nigerians see Mr. Buhari as an honest man. Unlike others in the political establishment, he has not enriched himself with money from the public treasury. His soft-spoken demeanor stands out among more flashy, blustery politicians.Mr. Buhari made headway in cleaning up graft, appointing a team that arrested political figures, seized millions of dollars and jailed corrupt officials. But critics said that his targets were his political opponents. He brushed off charges of corruption against his allies, who were not prosecuted.His victory is “a popular call to be more evenhanded with his anticorruption campaign,” said Dr. Sadeeque Abba, a political-science professor at the University of Abuja.Mr. Buhari captured the vote of northerners who viewed him as a son of the region, though Mr. Abubakar also hails from the north. But Mr. Buhari has paved roads in rural areas where crops and animals had been brought to market on crumbling highways.Mr. Buhari’s health likely will be on voters’ minds. He was absent from Nigeria for several months in 2017 when he sought treatment in London for an illness he never disclosed to the public.While Mr. Buhari failed to keep some of his early promises, especially in cracking down on terrorism, many voters still see the former general, who led the nation under military rule in the 1980s, as a strongman with the credentials to fight Boko Haram, the Islamist militant group ravaging the country’s northeast.Boko Haram has launched more complex attacks against military installations in recent months, and on the morning of Election Day a faction loyal to the Islamic State fired rockets at the biggest airport in the area. Mr. Buhari has told the public several times that the group has been defeated.Mr. Buhari also had promised to crack down on human rights abuses, but reports of impunity are a regular feature of Nigerian life. Security forces have opened fire on unarmed protesters on several occasions, with high body counts. Rapes by security forces of women and teenagers in camps for people fleeing war have gone uninvestigated.Mr. Buhari’s armed forces also stormed the main office of a major newspaper in January, seizing laptops and cellphones. His campaign adviser indicated in an interview on Tuesday that Africa’s largest democracy may face further clampdowns.“The right to free speech must be subordinated and subjugated to the right to national security,” said Babatunde Fashola, who is also the minister of power, works and housing.Mr. Buhari’s efforts so far have failed to quell battles over land between farmers and herders, or armed gangs carrying out kidnappings and killings.And lost in the fray of the election were the high-profile kidnapping victims of Boko Haram, including the remaining students from Chibok who were kidnapped nearly five years ago. Mr. Buhari had promised to free all of them.Though he helped broker the release of about half of the missing students, more than 100 remain held by militants. Those students and others who have gone missing during the nearly decade-long war seem forgotten by the many Nigerians who live in cities far from the fighting. Unity Fountain, the site where #BringBackOurGirls protesters once marched regularly, is often empty.Only a giant broom remains there in place of the protesters, stuck in the ground as a reminder of the president’s anticorruption pledge.Tony Iyare contributed reporting from Lagos, Nigeria.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin MuellerLONDON — Britain’s tottering efforts to leave the European Union remained at an impasse on Thursday as allies of Prime Minister Theresa May tried to keep her deal alive in the face of unbending opposition.The deal, already defeated twice in Parliament, was given new life on Wednesday after Mrs. May promised Conservative Party colleagues who are hard-line supporters of leaving the bloc that she would step down if it were passed, and let someone else take over the next stage of talks with Brussels for the process known as Brexit.[Who could be Britain’s next prime minister? Here are some contenders.]But even her offer to resign was not enough to assuage hard-line Conservatives or her putative allies in the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, or D.U.P., who hate the deal.So the government tried a new tack on Thursday: Ministers said they would disassemble Mrs. May’s deal into its two parts — one called the withdrawal agreement, and the other the political declaration — and ask Parliament to vote Friday only on the first.The withdrawal agreement outlines the terms of Britain’s exit from the European Union, while the political declaration deals with the tangled question of its future relationship with the bloc.The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.The speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, has said he would allow Parliament to vote again only if the plan had changed substantially since it had been rejected resoundingly — twice — and on Thursday he said the government had met that test.Ministers were pitching the vote to pro-Brexit hard-liners as their last opportunity to secure Britain’s exit from the European Union in the coming months, lest pro-Europeans in Parliament take control and try to frustrate Brexit or force a longer delay.Ministers also hoped the date of the vote — March 29, the originally scheduled day for Britain’s exit — would put some symbolic pressure on pro-Brexit Conservatives to swallow their objections and back Mrs. May.But the withdrawal agreement contains some of the most contentious pieces of Mrs. May’s plan.Among them is the so-called backstop that at least temporarily binds Britain and, to a greater extent, Northern Ireland to European trading rules so as to avoid customs checks on the historically contentious border between Ireland, part of the European Union, and Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom.Unionists in Northern Ireland reject the backstop because they believe it would create regulatory differences between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom, putting the union at risk.And British news media reports late Thursday said unionists intended to vote against Mrs. May’s plan again on Friday, considerably narrowing the prime minister’s path to victory.There was some hope among Conservatives that splitting Mrs. May’s plan in two would strengthen her case with opposition Labour lawmakers, whose main objections are to the political declaration and not the withdrawal agreement.But Labour leaders reacted angrily to the idea on Thursday, noting that Mrs. May had previously said the two pieces of her plan were inextricably linked.Keir Starmer, a senior Labour official, warned on Thursday that splitting them “would leave us with the blindest of blindfold Brexits.” He was referring to Labour’s fear that, if Parliament passed part of Mrs. May’s plan and the prime minister resigned, a hard-line pro-Brexit politician like Boris Johnson would take over and shape the crucial next stage of negotiations.Stephen Doughty, a Labour member of Parliament, said, “This looks to me like trickery of the highest order.”Confusion swirled all day in Parliament about the government’s plans, with ministers leaving lawmakers in the dark about what they would be voting on Friday until late in the afternoon.At the same time, anti-Brexit lawmakers were working behind the scenes to pick a few alternate plans to put before Parliament on Monday, in case Mrs. May’s deal did not pass before then.The anti-Brexit lawmakers were buoyed by votes in Parliament on Wednesday night on a catalog of proposals that clashed with Mrs. May’s.Those included once-radical ideas like holding a second public vote on Brexit or revoking Britain’s decision to leave altogether, as well as Brexit plans that would see Britain keep closer ties to Europe than Mrs. May’s proposal envisioned.The votes represented the first time in two years of Brexit negotiations that Parliament was allowed to express its feelings about alternate plans, and some lawmakers hoped they would show a path to compromise.But to the chagrin of Mrs. May’s opponents, all eight alternate plans failed to muster a majority, leading the British newspaper The Guardian to run this headline on its front page on Thursday: “No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No.”Some proposals got close. A plan for a customs union between Britain and the European Union lost by six votes. (Mr. Bercow said a tallying error had originally led him to say it was an eight-vote margin.)And the option of holding another referendum to test Britons’ views about leaving the bloc attracted more support than expected: 268 members voted in favor, and 295 against.The result on the proposal for a second referendum, coming after a weekend when hundreds of thousands of people marched in London for another vote and more than five million signed a petition asking to cancel Brexit, was a sign of how the views of anti-Brexit politicians have grown more intense as the process drags on.The nonbinding votes set the stage for another round of debate in Parliament on Monday, when the menu of alternate options is to be whittled and politicians given a second chance to coalesce behind a new plan.If Mrs. May’s withdrawal agreement passes on Friday, Parliament would meet the European Union’s deadline for completing the Brexit process and extracting Britain from the bloc by May 22.If not, Britain could crash out of the bloc without a deal on April 12 in what analysts say would be a calamitous exit, or it could ask for a longer extension.Mrs. May’s offer to resign was another reminder that, for all the anxiety in Britain over Brexit, Conservative Party politics are still dictated to a large degree by members’ leadership ambitions.Pro-Brexit politicians like Mr. Johnson have long been angling to take over from Mrs. May, and the chance to do so sooner rather than later seemed to be enough for many to back down from months of fierce opposition to her deal.Mr. Johnson once said that Mrs. May’s deal had strapped a “suicide vest” around the country. Another hard-line pro-Brexit lawmaker, Jacob Rees-Mogg, said the prime minister’s plan would turn Britain into “a slave state.”On Wednesday, both said they would back her deal.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Dionne SearceyABUJA, Nigeria — Nearly two hours after voting in Nigeria’s presidential election officially opened on Saturday, a poll worker grabbed Florence Michael’s thumb, ready to stamp her fingerprint so, finally, she could vote.Her thumb hovered over the ink pad before he pushed her hand back and told her to wait. Again. Workers at the sidewalk polling station along Gana Street — blocks from election officials’ headquarters here in the capital, Abuja — were not quite ready for business.It was yet another delay in the already delayed elections in Nigeria, Africa’s biggest economy, and one of many scenes of exasperation among already frustrated voters. Last weekend, officials had postponed the vote by one week, citing logistical issues. That decision came in the middle of the night, hours before polls were to open.President Muhammadu Buhari, who led Nigeria under military rule in the 1980s, has promised to continue a crackdown on corruption that helped him gain office in 2015, the country’s first peaceful democratic transfer of power. He is being challenged for a second term by more than 70 candidates, including his main rival, Atiku Abubakar, a former vice president and perennial candidate.Mr. Abubakar, facing allegations of corruption, has promised to create jobs — a potent pledge to an electorate consumed by concerns about unemployment — and to shore up Nigeria’s fragile economy, which is slowly recovering from a recession.Worries about security, which is deteriorating in many parts of the country, hung over some areas where the tightly contested election could spark violence after results are announced as early as Monday. Both leading candidates are from the north, and many experts worried about whether a losing party would peacefully accept the results.On Saturday night, Mr. Abubakar’s aides seemed to be spoiling for a fight, making allegations of irregularities before results were tabulated.Analysts expected a lower turnout Saturday than if the election had taken place last weekend. Nigeria has no absentee voting, and many people must travel long distances to cast ballots in their home district where they are registered.Having made that journey last weekend, many left after the vote was postponed, with no plans to return.Mr. Buhari announced a drop in the price of fuel to encourage voters to travel again to vote and declared Friday a national holiday. But here in Abuja, many hotel workers did not vote because they were working double shifts to serve the hundreds of election observers in town.To calm fears of voter fraud, Mr. Buhari said earlier in the week that anyone who tried to rig the vote could expect to be killed by security forces.Mr. Buhari’s critics say that he has fought graft only when it helps him politically and that he has failed to deliver on his campaign promise to defeat Boko Haram, an Islamist insurgency that has ravaged the northeast of the country for almost a decade.Two hours before the polls were to open at 8 a.m. Saturday, Boko Haram had already sent a chilling reminder that it is far from defeated. Bomb blasts and gunfire were reported in scattered areas across the outskirts of Maiduguri, Boko Haram’s founding city, in the northeast.Residents took cover in their homes; some had been scared off from voting. Government officials initially announced to a skeptical electorate that the blasts were part of a military drill before later conceding that militants were responsible. Boko Haram’s faction loyal to the Islamic State said later that it was responsible.In Rivers State, six people and one soldier were killed when troops patrolling the area on election day were ambushed, an army spokesman said.In the country’s largest city, Lagos, violence broke out at several polling stations. Thugs threw bottles, injuring several people.By 11:30 a.m., a quarter of polling stations across the country still had not opened, according to YIAGA Africa, a pro-democracy nonprofit group that sent 3,000 monitors into polling stations.In Yobe State, YIAGA Africa said, observers weren’t allowed to perform their official duties, and in Rivers State election materials were snatched at several polling stations.In the northeast, aid workers reported busloads of displaced people had arrived at countryside encampments, saying they had been rounded up by government officials who paid them the equivalent of $6 to return home and vote for specific candidates.In Lagos, high-tech card readers plagued one polling station. One failed to recognize both the card and the thumbprint of Ebele Helen Odigie, who looked despondent as she was turned away. Workers tried 22 times without success to get a reader to recognize the voting card of Ayokunle Fashola, but she was allowed to vote anyway.At the Living Water polling unit in Kubwa, just outside Abuja, voting proceeded but a security officer seized phones of anyone who snapped a photo while in line. That included Chibuzor Bonaventure who was taking a selfie. At age 27, he is among 51 percent of the country’s 84 million registered voters between the ages of 18 and 35.Just down the road at a school compound in Kubwa, voting began on time, card readers worked and people calmly queued in orderly lines, casting ballots inside cardboard voting booths.That wasn’t the case on Gana Street in Abuja, a neighborhood of walled villas, international banks and embassies where grumbling voters swirled about, confused over when voting would actually start, two hours after the station officially opened.Election officials weren’t much help. They herded more than 400 people together to write their names and voter numbers on slips of paper, then told them to check their names against a list taped to a wall across the street. Shouts erupted.“What is wrong in this country!” one man yelled.Finally, voters were organized alphabetically into queues. Several line jumpers prompted more shouting. Things seemed to settle down, then women voters decided they didn’t want to queue with men. New lines formed. New shouting broke out.Younger voters made way for Ms. Michael, a 71-year-old food seller, who moved to the front of the line.“The election has opened,” a worker loudly announced at 9:26 a.m. “Voting has started.”A hush fell over the crowd. Ms. Michael ducked under a string holding back voters from the registration table.“No! Not yet!” a worker barked at her.Eventually, Ms. Michael was allowed to cast her vote, for Mr. Buhari. By the end of voting more than 500 people had cast ballots at the Gana Street station, which had nearly emptied out even before it officially closed.A dozen men remained, clustered under the shade of a wide, yellow flowering tree and hovering over a single smartphone. Each said he hadn’t asked the others whom they supported. The subject was too heated. Instead, they were checking friends’ Facebook accounts to see how voting was going elsewhere.“We want to vote and return home safely,” said Olajide Taiwo, a land surveyor. “We believe in Nigeria.”Tony Iyare contributed reporting from Lagos, NigeriaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth DiasWASHINGTON — Chet Jechura was 12 years old when he first felt called to preach, but for years he put off ordination. He knew himself, and he knew the official rules of the United Methodist Church: Homosexuality was “incompatible with Christian teaching.” And so he left the denomination.Then four years ago, he discovered Foundry United Methodist, a church that has carved a different path. He could sing the hymns of his childhood, be fully supported as a gay man, and finally become a candidate for ordination.This week, a decision at a global conference for Methodists threatened to upend a lifetime of dreams, with the church voting to strengthen its ban on same-sex marriage and gay and lesbian clergy.At an impromptu prayer service on Wednesday, as Mr. Jechura helped serve communion, he broke out in sobs, his body convulsing, barely able to stand. The emptiness grew louder with every wail. Friends held him up, wrapping him in their arms.For several minutes, they stood there as he wept at the altar, draped in a rainbow stole.Across the country, progressive United Methodists are reeling from Tuesday night’s vote. As their conservative brethren celebrate, churches like Foundry are faced with difficult decisions.Next month, they may learn if they will be able to keep their property and assets, and if their gay and lesbian colleagues will be tossed out. Pastors and lay people are already debating if they should start a new denomination — or if, in a move perhaps more threatening to those who voted them out, they should refuse to leave.Nationwide, these high stakes are playing out in the blur of grief. The day after the vote, Foundry felt like it was in mourning. An assistant pastor made almost 50 calls to counsel and comfort parishioners. Neighbors from the Jewish Community Center came by with a box of tarts for the office, remembering how the pastors had brought them ice cream the day of the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting.“I was numb,” said the Rev. Ginger Gaines-Cirelli, Foundry’s pastor, her voice raw as she described the moments after the vote.Yet in the swirl of confusion, Foundry is also resolute. A schism may be on the horizon, but it has not happened yet, leaders point out. The new rules do not go into effect until January, and the Methodist judiciary must decide if parts of the new rule are constitutional.Shortly after the vote, Ms. Gaines-Cirelli joined a conference call with like-minded church leaders to start to plan their next steps. “We are not going anywhere,” she said in an interview. “If someone wants to come for me, for us, then bring it.”For decades, the stone church on 16th Street, a few blocks north of the White House, has been one of the most prominent religious institutions in Washington. The Clinton family called it home for years. It has also made religious rights for L.G.B.T. people core to its ministry. Foundry’s pastors have married same-sex couples and hired gay clergy. One retired minister surrendered his credentials in protest when a lesbian member’s ordination was blocked.Foundry was one of the first large churches to join a Methodist network that supports L.G.B.T. people, 30 years ago. Today, the church has more than 1,000 members, with most of its new growth coming from young people.Foundry may be at the vanguard, but it is among hundreds of Methodist churches that have believed that one day, their religious views about sexuality would prevail. Nearly two-thirds of American Methodists say homosexuality should be accepted. And United Methodist bishops had supported a plan at the conference that would have embraced L.G.B.T. clergy.For months, Foundry prepared for the looming vote. Last summer, the church dedicated a special altar in the narthex for people to pray. Progressive Methodist coalitions from around the country met at Foundry to organize in the fall.At the conference, on the floor of a former football stadium in St. Louis, Ms. Gaines-Cirelli juggled seven WhatsApp chat groups to coordinate strategy with advocates. Above in the stands, more than 35 Foundry members stood each day, singing hymns and holding strands of Tibetan-style, handmade rainbow prayer flags.But conservatives in the United States and Africa were equally fervent, arguing that a change in the teaching would oppose historical church teaching. They had spent decades preparing for this moment, and many of the conservative churches were far larger, and with far more financial means.“The debate cannot continue forever,” one of the main conservative groups, the Wesleyan Covenant Association, said in a statement after the vote. “We recognize irreconcilable differences exist.”After the vote, one of Foundry’s assistant pastors, the Rev. Will Ed Green, 31, slept for just an hour and half. He remembered being 6 in Hope, Ark., when he had watched his pastor break the bread for communion, and had told his mother, “I want to feed people like that.” But he was outed when he sought ordination, so he moved to Illinois, where bishops were more willing to receive queer candidates. Later, he was hired by Foundry.“You have people for whom the Methodist Church has become everything,” Mr. Green said. They say, “this church saved my life,” he said, “this church is where I found Jesus.”At the prayer service on Wednesday, as worshipers walked in from the night, Mr. Jechura urged them, “Be not afraid.” Together they read Scripture: The Lord will deliver you from the snare of the fowler. At the front of the sanctuary hung a tall orange banner that read, “Sacred Resistance.”April Young, 34, a lifelong United Methodist from a more conservative congregation in Texas, joined Foundry just two weeks ago. She twisted the ring on her finger as she sat in her pew, struggling to describe why she came to pray. “I just thought, if there is anything I can do, listen, anything … ” Her voice trailed off. “My church is really hurting.”Across the aisle sat Lenny Wrigley, 30, who grew up as a United Methodist but now goes to a Baptist church in Virginia. He will soon go to seminary to become a military chaplain, but has decided not to pursue Methodist ordination because he is openly gay. “This is not a time to be excluding people,” he said. “This church is seeing a decline.”Despite the risk, Mr. Jechura remains committed. In two years, he will graduate from seminary. “I am not going to allow the church to stand in the way of God’s call on my life,” he said. “I can do nothing else.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen CastleLONDON — Britain’s opposition Labour Party said on Monday that it was prepared to support a second referendum on withdrawal from the European Union, a shift that could have significant ramifications for the fate of Brexit and for the country’s future.After the resignations of nine Labour Party members last week, and amid the prospect of more, the party’s leader, Jeremy Corbyn, dropped his longstanding resistance to a second vote on leaving the bloc.Mr. Corbyn’s support for a new vote is certainly no guarantee a new vote will happen. Still, it will cheer pro-European Britons, who have been fighting to reverse the outcome of the 2016 referendum decision.The Labour statement on Monday was lacking in detail, and it was not immediately clear when the amendment for a second vote would be put forward in Parliament and what question, exactly, it proposed to put to the people.Britain is scheduled to leave the European Union on March 29, but so far there is no agreement among lawmakers on how to proceed. An exit deal negotiated by Prime Minister Theresa May was rejected by an overwhelming 230-vote margin last month.If there is no agreement, the country risks a possibly chaotic “no-deal exit” from the bloc, without any negotiated agreement.Analysts raised doubts about whether a Labour amendment calling for a second vote would come this week, when Parliament is scheduled to vote on a series of amendments proposed by lawmakers. They suggested it was more likely that Labour would make its move next month, when Mrs. May’s Brexit proposed deal is scheduled to be reconsidered.At the moment, it is unlikely that a second vote would win a majority in Parliament because most lawmakers still oppose the idea. But if Mrs. May’s Brexit plan is rejected next month for a second time, then the calculation in Parliament could change.Mr. Corbyn could choose to support two Labour lawmakers, Peter Kyle and Phil Wilson, who are drawing up an amendment that would support Mrs. May’s deal — but only in return for a referendum on it, with voters given the alternative of backing the May deal or remaining in the bloc.While Labour lawmakers have long opposed a no-deal Brexit, they have been divided on whether to put the stay/leave question back to the people.The party campaigned in the 2016 referendum against Brexit, but many of Labour’s traditional supporters in the north and middle of the country ignored its advice. That has left lawmakers representing those areas in a quandary, with some insisting that Brexit must go ahead to respect the views of their voters.The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.But most Labour members and voters in London and other big cities adamantly oppose Brexit.One of the reasons cited by the Labour rebels, eight of whom quit last week to join an independent grouping, was Mr. Corbyn’s failure to oppose Brexit strongly enough. Without his support, there was no chance of a second referendum ever being authorized by lawmakers.Monday’s announcement suggests that their departure has already proved effective in pressuring Mr. Corbyn, who is a lifelong critic of the European Union, to fall into line with those in the party who support a so-called people’s vote.“One way or another, we will do everything in our power to prevent No Deal and oppose a damaging Tory Brexit based on Theresa May’s overwhelmingly rejected deal,” Mr. Corbyn said in the statement.“This is why, in line with our conference policy, we are committed to also putting forward or supporting an amendment in favor of a public vote to prevent a damaging Tory Brexit being forced on the country,” Mr. Corbyn said.At last year’s Labour Party conference, members agreed that the party’s main priority would be to push for a general election, but if it failed to secure one, all options would remain under consideration, including a people’s vote.Labour failed to bring down the government through a confidence motion last month but has been slow to move toward a second referendum. Mr. Corbyn has been accused of keeping in the background on Brexit, preferring to criticize and oppose Mrs. May’s Brexit plan, rather than stopping it, as long as he can avoid blame for its consequences.On Monday David Lammy, a lawmaker who favors another referendum, welcomed Mr. Corbyn’s statement backing a second vote.“This is a big step toward uniting our party and most importantly our country,” he wrote on Twitter. “No Brexit deal meets the fantasy promised in 2016. So the only way any specific form of Brexit can be made legitimate is through ratification in a #PeopleVote which includes the option to remain.”Richard Corbett, the leader of Labour’s lawmakers in the European Parliament, described the move toward a second vote as a “very important step.”“Given that we don’t want a catastrophic no deal, we don’t want Theresa May’s disastrous deal, and as it becomes clearer that she won’t go for an alternative deal, the only option left is stopping Brexit via a public vote,” he said.One analyst said Mr. Corbyn’s shift on the issue was more about internal Labour Party politics than securing a second vote.“It was always likely Corbyn would edge toward supporting some kind of referendum as the Brexit endgame approached,” said Steven Fielding, a professor of political history at the University of Nottingham. “But he has not done this in the expectation that the Commons will support a referendum — it won’t. This is him trying to keep a divided party united and shoring up a decline in his poll numbers.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan BlinderMore than three months after an election that might have been tainted by fraud — and more than six weeks after the new Congress convened without a representative from North Carolina’s Ninth Congressional District — state regulators are scheduled to meet on Monday to consider evidence of possible misconduct.The hearing, which could prompt the State Board of Elections to order a new vote in the district, may last until Wednesday and could include dozens of witnesses. Congress, which has the constitutional authority to determine its membership, will be watching closely.Here’s a guide to where things stand ahead of Monday’s hearing.The midterms — at least in the Ninth District, which includes part of Charlotte and a vast, rural swath of southeastern North Carolina — have not ended, and a House seat that Republicans have held since 1963 is still at stake.At first, it seemed that the Republicans’ grip on the seat would continue: Mark Harris, the Republican nominee, took a 905-vote lead over his Democratic rival, Dan McCready. But state officials refused to certify Mr. Harris as the victor because of concerns about election fraud and, in particular, the conduct of L. McCrae Dowless Jr., a contractor for the Harris campaign.The principal concern involves absentee ballot harvesting — when a ballot is collected and mailed by someone who is not the voter or, in some instances, a close relative — and how Mr. Dowless and his associates may have relied on the tactic during their work for Mr. Harris. Although ballot harvesting is allowed in some states, it is illegal in North Carolina.Allegations have also been raised about absentee ballot tampering and that elections officials in Bladen County, where absentee-by-mail statistics helped stir suspicions about fraud, may have aided Mr. Dowless.A prolific political operative in Bladen County, Mr. Dowless has long been a go-to contractor for Democratic and Republican candidates, especially in state and local races. He has also run for, and won, elected office himself, and his party loyalties have sometimes shifted. Over almost 15 years, according to state records, Mr. Dowless has gone from being a registered Democrat to unaffiliated to Democrat to unaffiliated to Republican.He has a criminal record that includes convictions for perjury and insurance fraud, and he previously drew scrutiny, but not prosecution, for his political work. Mr. Harris acknowledged in December that, despite Mr. Dowless’s controversial history, he had directed his hiring as a contractor. But Mr. Harris maintained that he “had no reason to think that what he was doing was illegal.”Mr. Dowless declined repeated requests for an interview with The New York Times and, through his lawyer, also refused to meet with state investigators. He could speak this week, though: Both the Harris and McCready campaigns identified him as a possible witness for the evidentiary hearing. He has not been charged with wrongdoing in connection to the 2018 election.North Carolina law gives the elections board the power to order a new vote if it finds that “irregularities or improprieties occurred to such an extent that they taint the results of the entire election and cast doubt on its fairness.”But there is no firm guideline for when a disputed election meets that threshold. The state board has five members — three Democrats and two Republicans — and it takes four members to call a new election.His position, like his opponent’s, is about what you would expect.Mr. Harris’s campaign, in a brief to the elections board, argued that the state should certify the Republican nominee as the winner and that a new election would not be appropriate.“Because the voter’s intent is key, any alleged ballot harvesting, standing alone, does not weigh in favor of a new election,” Mr. Harris’s lawyers wrote. “To be sure, absentee-by-mail ballot harvesting is illegal, and it should be referred to prosecutors for appropriate action.”“But illegality in transmission is not necessarily indicative of invalidity of substance,” the campaign added. “Without evidence to show that the contents of ballots sufficient in number to change the outcome of the election were tampered with, any illegality in how they were delivered should be immaterial to the Board’s decision making.”In its own brief to the elections board, Mr. McCready’s campaign called for a new vote and accused Mr. Harris’s campaign of hiring Mr. Dowless because of his “proven history of generating a strikingly high, and downright suspicious, share of absentee-by-mail votes.”“Though the full scope of fraudulent activity may never be known, the record makes clear that the results of the entire election are tainted, and its fairness is in doubt,” the McCready campaign wrote. “Moreover, the Harris campaign should have known it was benefiting from fraud, and there is strong evidence that they did know and that local election officials aided the scheme.”Maybe, but they will not be heard or adjudicated during this week’s elections board proceedings. The board can send any findings to prosecutors, some of whom have already been investigating irregularities, for possible charges.No. Representative Robert M. Pittenger, who lost a Republican primary to Mr. Harris last May, left power when the new Congress took office in early January, and the Ninth District’s seat has been empty ever since. Although no House vote this year has been close enough that a single member’s decision would have changed the outcome, the Ninth has been without representation as dozens of matters have gone before the House.Under the Constitution, the House is “the judge of the elections, returns and qualifications of its own members,” and Congress could eventually determine that November’s balloting was compromised.A formal refusal by Congress to seat a prospective member from the Ninth District would lead to a new election, but it is unclear whether the House would take such a step if the state elections board certified a winner.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — Stacey Abrams, who narrowly lost her race in November to be Georgia’s governor, delivered the Democrats’ official response to President Trump’s State of the Union address on Tuesday night by outlining the party’s vision for lower health care costs and a more inclusive immigration policy, and pressing her case that access to the voting booth should be easier, not harder.“Let’s be clear: Voter suppression is real,” Ms. Abrams said, speaking from Atlanta and surrounded by supporters. “From making it harder to register and stay on the rolls to moving and closing polling places to rejecting lawful ballots, we can no longer ignore these threats to democracy.”[Read a transcript of Ms. Abrams’s speech.]Ms. Abrams’s loss in November dashed hopes that she would become the first African-American female governor, and the way she lost rankled her and her supporters, amid charges of voter suppression and ballot rigging. Her emphasis on voting rights Tuesday night fit the theme she struck when she conceded the race to her Republican rival, Brian Kemp, who supervised the election as Georgia’s secretary of state. But it also dovetailed with the goals of the new House Democratic majority, whose leaders have included language intended to expand voter registration in the first bill they introduced when they took control of the chamber last month.The issue is also deeply personal for Ms. Abrams. The election prompted her to start an advocacy group, Fair Fight Action, dedicated to expanding voting rights.“This is the next battle for our democracy, one where all eligible citizens can have their say about the vision we want for our country,” she said. “We must reject the cynicism that says allowing every eligible vote to be cast and counted is a ‘power grab.’ Americans understand that these are the values our brave men and women in uniform and our veterans risk their lives to defend.”The “power grab” comment was a direct reference to Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, who used that phrase to denounce House Democratic legislation to expand access to the voting booth.The Democrats’ selection of Ms. Abrams signals that the party intends for her to play a prominent role in national politics, and already some Democratic leaders are imploring her to challenge Senator David Perdue, Republican of Georgia, a close ally of Mr. Trump who is up for re-election in 2020. She remains undecided, according to people who are close to her. Democrats hope an Abrams candidacy can mobilize minority voters and possibly put Georgia into play in the presidential contest.But even before Tuesday night’s speech, Ms. Abrams, 45, commanded a national platform. Democrats around the country were rallying around her history-making candidacy.Ms. Abrams is also the first black woman to deliver a State of the Union response, and her selection also signals a marked shift for Democrats. Just two years ago, the party selected Steve Beshear, the former Kentucky governor, to deliver the response to Mr. Trump’s first address to a joint session of Congress, in a clear bid to appeal to the white working-class voters who had helped elect the president.She began her speech with a message about faith and family: Her librarian mother and father, a shipyard worker, both became United Methodist ministers. The family had only one car, Ms. Abrams said, “so sometimes my dad had to hitchhike and walk long stretches during the 30-mile trip home from the shipyards.” One rainy night, she said, he gave away his jacket to a homeless man.It was an anecdote meant to showcase Democrats’ concern for working people — a theme that House Democrats have hammered home with their so-called For the People agenda of lowering prescription drug prices, passing an infrastructure measure and ending corruption in Washington. Ms. Abrams hit hard on those themes throughout her address.“In Georgia and around the country, people are striving for a middle class where a salary truly equals economic security,” she said. “But instead, families’ hopes are being crushed by Republican leadership that ignores real life or just doesn’t understand it. Under the current administration, far too many hard-working Americans are falling behind, living paycheck to paycheck, most without labor unions to protect them from even worse harm.”She also attacked Mr. Trump over his immigration policies.“We know bipartisanship could craft a 21st-century immigration plan, but this administration chooses to cage children and tear families apart,” Ms. Abrams said. “Compassionate treatment at the border is not the same as open borders.”Ms. Abrams was not the only one to counter Mr. Trump. Two presidential hopefuls — Senators Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont (who has not yet announced his candidacy but is widely expected to), and Kamala Harris, Democrat of California — delivered their own responses.Ms. Harris, a former prosecutor who in 2017 became the second black woman to serve in the Senate (after Carol Moseley Braun of Illinois) delivered an eight-minute address, livestreamed on her Facebook page before Mr. Trump took the rostrum in the House chamber. She took the president to task for policies that she said benefit the rich and powerful, and outlined her own vision for a politics of unity rather than division.“At this difficult moment we can have faith that the American people are spirited, resourceful and resilient,” Ms. Harris said, “and because of who we are we can come together around that common purpose.”Ms. Harris challenged Mr. Trump on a range of fronts, arguing that his economic policies are geared to “help big corporations and foreign interests,” and that his foreign policy has hurt American farmers and consumers because of the trade wars he has instigated. And she confronted Mr. Trump on his immigration policy, particularly his administration’s decision to separate children from their parents seeking asylum at the border.“When you hear claims that our problems would all be solved if we just built a wall on our southern border, don’t forget the babies ripped from their parents’ arms and the refugees fleeing violence and abuse that are being turned away,” she said.Like Ms. Harris, Mr. Sanders outlined a progressive vision, questioning why Mr. Trump had failed to mention climate change in his address, faulting his “disgraceful” immigration policies and complaining of the president, “He is trying to divide us up.”“Trump said tonight that we should quote govern not as two parties but as one nation,” Mr. Sanders said. “I agree. But Trump’s agenda of providing tax breaks to billionaires while throwing millions of Americans off health insurance is the exact opposite of what the American people want.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Dionne Searcey and Emmanuel AkinwotuABUJA, Nigeria — The weather. Sabotage of buildings storing election materials. A raft of court challenges.Those were some of the reasons Nigeria’s elections commissioner cited for his middle-of-the-night decision — announced at 2:30 a.m. on Saturday — to delay the nation’s presidential vote hours before polls were to open.The 11th-hour postponement, he assured a crowd of international observers, diplomats and civil society groups at news conference in the capital “had nothing to do with security, nothing to do with political influence.”The news came as a huge disappointment to millions of Nigerian voters who awoke Saturday morning expecting to vote for one of the more than 70 candidates. Among the contenders is President Muhammadu Buhari, 76, who is vying for a third term. He had traveled to his home village to cast a ballot, only to fly back to the capital Saturday instead.Many others had also traveled long distances to their home districts to be in place to vote — Nigeria has no absentee voting system. And the frustration was palpable.Mr. Buhari and his leading challenger, Atiku Abubakar, 72, urged their supporters to be patient even as they condemned the one-week delay.Critics of Mr. Buhari say that in four years in office he has failed to deliver on promises to fix the economy, tackle corruption and improve security. Attacks carried out by criminal organizations and by Boko Haram have been on the rise. This week, more than 60 people were killed in Kaduna in an attack blamed on religious tensions.Critics also say the president has used his anticorruption campaign to target political enemies while sparing his allies.Mr. Abubakar is a former vice president and wealthy businessman who has himself been dogged by accusations of corruption. In 2010, a United States Senate subcommittee accused him of funneling tens of millions of dollars’ worth of Nigerian oil revenues into foreign shell accounts. Mr. Abubakar has responded to the allegation by noting that he has never been charged with a crime.The political parties of the two leading candidates each accused the other of gaining an advantage from the delay.A considerably lower turnout is almost certainly guaranteed. It is unlikely many voters who live far from their polling stations will be able to afford the time or money to make the trip again. But it is unclear which candidate that would benefit.The leaders of Mr. Buhari’s party said Mr. Abubakar would gain an advantage from “a breather” and that his party had been “bent on discrediting this process the moment it realized it cannot make up the numbers to win this election.”Mr. Abubakar accused the president of orchestrating the delay to suppress voter turnout.“Their plan is to provoke the public, hoping for a negative reaction, and then use that as an excuse for further antidemocratic acts,” he said.Yet both camps also urged supporters to be patient in the face of a delay that risks inflaming tensions in an already tense election.The decision upended the plans of millions of people, including huge teams of international observers from the European Union, the African Union and pro-democracy organizations in the United States and elsewhere. Observers had fanned out across the country and set up command centers in hotel conference rooms to monitor the election.On Saturday they were busy rebooking flights and paying for extra nights in hotels. Though many said they were committed to monitor voting on the new date, it was unclear whether their ranks would remain as strong.Voters vented on social media. Some said they had traveled to areas known for violence to cast their ballots, and that they were now stranded there without the election officials they had expected to rely on for security.There were concerns that rumors and bogus news reports could spread about the reasons for the delay. And it seemed possible that still more logistical problems could develop.Mahmood Yakubu, Nigeria’s elections commissioner, said that among the challenges was the fact that 180,000 high-tech smart card readers would need to be reprogrammed for the new election date.He cited weather delays that stalled the distribution of voting materials to all of the nearly 120,000 polling stations. A massive dust storm has lingered over parts of the country for days stalling some flights. Up to 640 court challenges by various contenders had also contributed to delays at the commission. And three buildings storing election materials were burned in acts of sabotage, he said.Mr. Yakubu considered postponing the vote by just one day, but said the nation’s many Christians would have objected to an election on a Sunday. Waiting until Monday wouldn’t work either, he said, as retrieving and resetting tens of thousands of card readers from polling sites across the country would be a lengthy process.Rescheduling the election is bound to come at a huge cost, not just for the redeployment of people and equipment, but for the scores of restaurant workers, market employees, taxi drivers and others who all missed a day of work Saturday to vote. The government had ordered all vehicles off the roads for the day, and most businesses had shuttered.Still, many observers were optimistic that a sense of calm would prevail. The past two Nigerian presidential elections were also delayed.But this campaign has been closely fought, and tensions have been high throughout.The opposition has accused Mr. Buhari’s government of plotting to rig the vote. In turn, Abba Kyari, the president’s chief of staff, made a rare public comment in an article for an Nigerian newspaper, accusing the United States and the European Union of working with Mr. Abubakar’s party.The governor of Kaduna, a close ally of Mr. Buhari, had earlier caused outrage by warning that foreign actors intervening in Nigeria would leave the country “in body bags.”Dionne Searcey reported from Abuja and Emmanuel Akinwotu from Lagos, Nigeria.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael WinesWASHINGTON — In the years after Republicans swept state and congressional elections in 2010, legislatures in 25 states — all but a handful of them dominated by the party — enacted laws that made it harder to register and vote, from imposing ID requirements and curbing voter registration drives to rolling back early voting periods.In November, Democrats reclaimed some of the ground they lost eight years ago. And now the rules for casting a ballot are moving fast in the opposite direction.The signal example is in New York, where Democrats last month enacted a series of measures expanding access to the ballot box, just two months after taking full control of both the State House and Senate. But that state is far from the only one: Legislatures in New Jersey and Virginia are set to consider even more expansive packages. Delaware, New Hampshire, Minnesota and New Mexico are also set to take up voting rights measures.All those proposals, in legislatures under Democratic control or on the cusp of it, have plausible prospects of becoming law. But Democrats are pushing legislation to expand access to the ballot even in some states like South Carolina and Texas where Republicans control makes approval unlikely.And in the House of Representatives, they are pressing a sweeping overhaul of election and ethics laws — titled H.R. 1 to underscore its importance — that would, among many other things, end partisan gerrymanders, disclose anonymous donors to political causes and reinstate crucial parts of the 1965 Voting Rights Act that the Supreme Court invalidated in 2013.Republicans call the legislation an attack on states’ constitutional authority over elections and redistricting, and its campaign finance limits an assault on free speech. Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican and majority leader, already has said the bill would be dead on arrival in the Senate should it clear the House, as appears all but guaranteed.In an op-ed in The Washington Post last week, Mr. McConnell branded the legislation “the Democrat Politician Protection Act.” “From the First Amendment to your ballot box,” he wrote, “Democrats want to rewrite the rules to favor themselves and their friends.”That does not faze Democrats, who are betting that Republicans are on the wrong side of an issue that has finally gained traction with the public. Even if they lose to Republicans in Congress, Democrats say, they will win with voters.Should Republicans block the bill, “it becomes a marker by which we start measuring McConnell, the Senate and anybody else who stands in the way,” Representative John Sarbanes, a Maryland Democrat who is the House bill’s principal sponsor, said in an interview. “I think it’ll be increasingly difficult for him to resist this as a narrative.”Here are the different fronts that Democrats and even a few Republicans are pushing around the country.Floridians voted overwhelmingly in November for a constitutional amendment restoring voting rights that had been permanently stripped from as many as 1.4 million citizens with felony convictions. Now similar amendments have been proposed in Iowa and Kentucky, two states with the most draconian of such bans. The Iowa measure was proposed this month by the state’s Republican governor, Kim Reynolds, to a Republican-dominated legislature that seemed skeptical. The prospects in Kentucky’s Republican-controlled Legislature are also unclear.Minnesota, Connecticut and New Jersey Democrats are backing legislation to restore voting rights to those on parole or probation, and a bill in Arizona’s Legislature would lift a lifetime ban on voting by people convicted of two or more felonies. In New Mexico, where Democrats won full control of government in November for the first time since 2010, a state legislative committee has approved a proposal that would restore voting rights to anyone with a felony conviction, including prisoners. To date, only Maine and Vermont allow imprisoned felons to vote. A similar measure was filed in the New Jersey Legislature last year.As of November, 38 states allowed voters to cast ballots before Election Day, either by opening polling places early or by letting voters cast early absentee ballots for any reason. This month, New York became the 39th, and some form of early-voting legislation or constitutional amendment has been filed in all remaining states except Alabama and Rhode Island.Thirty-six states request some form of identification at the polls; the strictest measures were largely enacted by Republican legislatures after 2008. In two of them, Virginia and Texas, Democrats have introduced bills to repeal ID requirements; only the Virginia legislation is considered to have a chance of passage. An Indiana bill would expand that state’s strict ID law to include student identification cards.In 17 states and the District of Columbia, when a resident applies for a driver’s license, they are automatically registered to vote unless they ask to be excluded. Now at least 12 more states are taking up automatic-registration bills, many of which are likely to pass. Automatic registration is the rare voting rights innovation that frequently gets bipartisan support.In addition, at least nine state legislatures have bills that would allow voters to register on the same day that they vote. Two more, Texas and Mississippi, have legislation that would permit online registration. New York Democrats have approved legislation allowing 16- and 17-year-olds to preregister, an option that has been shown to increase participation in elections; lawmakers in four more states — Kentucky, Minnesota, New Jersey and Pennsylvania — have filed preregistration bills.Timothy Horrigan, a Durham representative in New Hampshire’s newly Democrat-controlled General Court, is sponsoring two bills to repeal recent Republican laws that made it more difficult for the area’s substantial college student population to register to vote.Mr. Horrigan said he was trying to recruit Republican support for some form of his legislation so that parties would not feel compelled to change election laws every time control of the legislature flips. But he pledged to stick to what he called his idealistic belief that politics was about winning supporters, not suppressing opponents.“If they’re worried about younger voters,” he said, “the solution is to get more younger voters on their side.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe church is considering a proposal to end its prohibitions on same-sex marriage and ordaining gays and lesbians, but a rival plan to keep those policies in place appears to have more support.By Timothy WilliamsThe United Methodist Church is meeting in St. Louis this week to vote on whether to strengthen or end its prohibitions on same-sex marriage and ordaining gays and lesbians — a decision that could splinter the church. The denomination has been grappling for years with how to respond to social changes that have buffeted other mainline Protestant congregations, with individual United Methodist churches adopting contradictory — and sometimes competing — practices. At some churches, clergy members have come out as gay or lesbian from the pulpit, while other pastors have preached that homosexuality is a sin.With 12 million adherents worldwide, including seven million in the United States, the church gathered 864 members in St. Louis to vote on the way forward. But the meeting has laid bare the denomination’s fissures. “The church,” said Gideon Salatan, a member from the Philippines, “is grievously wounded.”Here’s a look at the two leading proposals, known the Traditional Plan and the One Church Plan. No matter which garners the most votes, there are fears that significant numbers of people will be dissatisfied with the outcome and many will ultimately leave.This proposal essentially maintains the church’s practice of denying gays and lesbians equality and appears to have the most support. The church’s policy, which dates from 1972, states that “the practice of homosexuality is incompatible with Christian teaching.” The plan prohibits gays and lesbians from becoming clergy and forbids same-sex marriage. It defines homosexuals as people in same-sex marriages or civil unions, and those who “publicly state that they are practicing homosexuals.”Clergy who officiate at same-sex weddings would receive a one-year, unpaid suspension. A second offense would result in removal from the clergy.The policy would also require groups within the denomination to “certify adherence” to the rule. Those who refuse would be “urged” to leave the United Methodist Church, which would prohibit them from using the denomination’s name or logo.The primary supporters of the proposal are church members from African nations and the Philippines, as well as evangelical Europeans and Americans, who expressed a desire to retain the church’s longstanding rules.“I was born into a traditional church, so I am learning what is God’s will,” Julia Stukalova, a church member from Russia, said Monday. “God loves everyone, but he wants everyone to live according to his word.” The One Church Plan would allow individual churches or regions to decide for themselves whether to hire gay clergy or to perform same-sex weddings. It would also eliminate the church policy that homosexuality is incompatible with Christianity.Churches that choose not to hire gay and lesbian pastors or to conduct same-sex weddings would not be punished. Bishops and clergy who choose not to officiate at ordinations or same-sex weddings would be protected from being sanctioned.The majority of support for the proposal comes from self-identified progressives, many of whom are from the United States.“I will be very sad not to be able to claim the cross and the flame because I am being kicked out,” said Cheryl Johnson Bell, a clergy member who said her family had been part of the church for five generations.The church is scheduled to vote Tuesday about which plan to pursue. If the Traditional Plan is successful, some places, particularly in California, would probably begin preparing to leave the United Methodist Church, according to church members. If the One Church Plan prevails, congregations in Africa and Asia might start preparing to form an independent Methodist church. Any exit, however, involves a fairly cumbersome process and would most likely not occur for several months, or even years.“It is true that some persons and some local churches have an interest in withdrawal and separation,” said Kenneth Carter, president of the church’s Council of Bishops. “Unfortunately, the losers will be the most vulnerable, who won’t have the protection of a united church.”  Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sydney EmberShortly after Senator Bernie Sanders suffered a crushing loss in South Carolina’s Democratic primary in 2016, his campaign’s African-American outreach team sent a memo to top campaign leaders with an urgent warning.“The margin by which we lost the African-American vote has got to be — at the very least — cut in half or there simply is no path to victory,” the team wrote in the memo, which was reviewed by The New York Times. Mr. Sanders had won 14 percent of the black vote there compared with 86 percent for Hillary Clinton, according to exit polls.Over seven pages, the team outlined a strategy for winning black voters that included using social media influencers and having Mr. Sanders give a major speech on discrimination in a city like St. Louis or Cincinnati.Mr. Sanders’s inner circle did not respond.In a campaign in which Mr. Sanders badly needed his message against inequality to catch fire with black voters, the senator from Vermont and his senior leaders struggled to prioritize and execute a winning plan to build their support. Top aides lost faith in their African-American outreach organizers, whose leadership was replaced and whose team members were scattered across the country. Initiatives like a tour of historically black colleges and universities fizzled; Mr. Sanders even missed its kickoff event.As Mr. Sanders prepares to announce another run for the White House as early as this week, his weak track record with black voters — a vital base in the Democratic Party — could be a potential threat to his candidacy. And his campaign’s experience in 2016, as described in interviews with nearly two dozen current and former advisers and staff members, reveals a strikingly uneven commitment on the part of Mr. Sanders and his top advisers to organize and communicate effectively with black voters and leaders.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]For 2016, Mr. Sanders initially put together an all-white leadership team and campaigned heavily in predominantly white states like Iowa and New Hampshire, which vote early in the nomination process. The relationship between his inner circle and his black staff members frayed, and it is unclear if top Sanders aides were aware of the damage until it was too late.As the primary season unfolded, Mrs. Clinton dealt Mr. Sanders a series of stinging defeats in Southern states with high black turnout, while African-American leaders repeatedly criticized the Sanders campaign for failing to understand the concerns and priorities of their constituents.This year, Mr. Sanders is already dealing with another thorny problem involving his 2016 staff: allegations from women who say they were mistreated or harassed during the campaign. Last month, after The Times published an investigation into complaints by female staff members, Mr. Sanders publicly apologized.The two issues could make Mr. Sanders vulnerable in a crowded and diverse Democratic primary field that includes several female and minority candidates.Advisers to the senator maintain that the African-American outreach team had plenty of resources and was a victim of its own inefficiency.“The black people had the largest team — the Latino outreach team didn’t even have that many people,” said Symone Sanders, who took over black outreach efforts after the South Carolina primary. “And then what did they do with the resources? They squandered it.”Dissatisfaction among black staff members on the 2016 campaign was reported at the time, including by Fusion. But fresh interviews show that many former black employees still feel frustrated that they were not taken seriously or provided with the resources they needed to succeed — even though some continue to admire Mr. Sanders.“It’s almost like they didn’t need us for anything,” said John Solomon, who was hired as an organizer but soon became disillusioned when campaign aides assigned him to drive people around Iowa in a truck. “It was kind of like, you have black staff just to say you have black staff.”This tension spilled over into other areas of the campaign, particularly among local staff members in South Carolina, who worked closely with the African-American outreach team. Some black campaign workers described microaggressions — subtle interactions that, while not overtly discriminatory, still played on racial prejudice. One woman said her boss almost never spoke to her.[Who’s in, who’s out: Keep up with the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]Mr. Sanders appears committed to strengthening ties with the black community since his loss to Mrs. Clinton. He has made multiple trips to the South, and last month he spent Martin Luther King’s Birthday in South Carolina, where he spoke at the Capitol and met with black leaders, elected officials and students.At the same time, the senator’s advisers are conscious that any future presidential campaign would need a much more diverse staff, especially in its upper ranks. Last month, Jeff Weaver, Mr. Sanders’s former campaign manager and currently a senior adviser, acknowledged to The Times that the 2016 staff had been “too male” and “too white.”Mr. Weaver declined to comment for this article. Friends of Bernie Sanders, the senator’s campaign committee, said in a statement that Mr. Sanders “remains committed to diversity and inclusion in the workplace, politics and in policy.”The group also said it was having conversations and conducting training with human resources consultants and current and former staff members “with the goal of safe, inclusive and equitable policies that reflect the work and values of Senator Sanders.”In any political campaign, the internal competition for resources can be fierce, and getting the ear of the candidate’s top aides is difficult.In 2016, this frustration was particularly acute for those working on Mr. Sanders’s African-American outreach efforts. Many had joined with the goal of bringing the candidate’s populist message into black communities.Danny Glover, a liaison to historically black colleges, introduced a tour he believed could solidify support from young black voters.But Mr. Sanders did not attend the kickoff event at South Carolina State University, and the campaign often sent surrogates rather than the senator himself. The budget for the tour was soon cut, Mr. Glover said, and the events that were held were scaled back.“It was kind of disappointing,” Mr. Glover said, adding, “I just think back to the opportunities we left on the field for lack of investment into it.”The senator’s campaign committee said that Mr. Sanders “deeply cares about H.B.C.U.s” and that the United Negro College Fund planned to honor him next month.Other staff members shared similar accounts of disappointment.When Mr. Solomon joined the campaign in late 2015, he was told his job would include networking with black voters and planning events in black communities. But almost immediately he was assigned tasks like keeping itineraries and chauffeuring surrogates that had little to do with outreach — which made him feel like “support staff,” he said.Roy Tatem, the deputy director of the outreach team, said that higher-ranking aides, including Mr. Weaver, rarely interacted with the group as a whole and that there was a constant push and pull for resources.Mr. Sanders’s “heart has been consistently in the right place,” Mr. Tatem said. But he added that over time campaign leaders deprioritized black voters, especially after the South Carolina primary defeat. “The narrative became ‘Bernie cannot win black voters,’” he said.After South Carolina, Symone Sanders, who is black (and is not related to the senator), was put in charge of winning over black voters. She said she knew that the outreach team was frustrated but added that “a large part of it is a lack of understanding for what the process and protocols should have been.”She said the loss in South Carolina was partly because the campaign got there too late to overcome Mrs. Clinton’s built-in advantage, reflecting an overall disorganization. But she also said the outreach team did not adequately support on-the-ground workers there.“They did not deliver,” she said in an interview.Top aides said the campaign invested heavily in the outreach team, including giving it its own office in Atlanta.“The individual roles of African-American outreach staff members changed as the campaign grew and the calendar progressed, as they did in every department,” the senator’s campaign committee said.Advisers to Mr. Sanders say he is committed to having a more diverse campaign staff should he run again, and there have been signs he is trying to build his relationship with the black community. During his trip to South Carolina last month, he spoke to students at Benedict College, a historically black college, and met with clergy members and members of the state’s legislative black caucus.Representative James Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 Democrat in the House, was with Mr. Sanders on Martin Luther King’s Birthday and said the tone of the senator’s speech was different from that of his past speeches.“In South Carolina before, his speeches did not lend themselves to being embraced by the African-American community,” Mr. Clyburn said. Mr. Sanders’s recent speech, in which he called President Trump a racist, “showed much more sensitivity to the dreams and aspirations of African-Americans than his speeches did in 2016,” Mr. Clyburn said.Separately, Mr. Sanders has been reaching out to black leaders — including Chokwe Antar Lumumba, the mayor of Jackson, Miss., and Derrick Johnson, the president of the N.A.A.C.P. — to discuss issues that affect black communities, like economic justice and voter suppression.But he has had some missteps, too. Some critics cited recent remarks he made suggesting that white voters who were uncomfortable voting for black candidates were “not necessarily racist.” Others said his decision to deliver his own rebuttal to the State of the Union address was disrespectful to Stacey Abrams, a rising Democratic star and the first black woman chosen to give the official response.Many former staff members said that above all, if Mr. Sanders runs in 2020, they wanted to see the makeup of his campaign staff — and whether people of color are empowered — before they were willing to assess his progress.“He can start with the hiring process,” Mr. Glover, the college tour organizer, said. “Those first hires are going to let a lot of us know if he learned from the 2016 cycle.”Doris Burke and Kitty Bennett contributed research.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy David Zucchino and Fahim AbedKABUL, Afghanistan — Afghanistan’s coalition government fired on Tuesday all the commissioners who directed fraud-tainted parliamentary elections last fall, as the country prepares for a presidential race this summer and watches, with its leaders on the sidelines, peace talks unfold between Americans and the Taliban.The move follows a push by some opposition politicians to postpone the election and form an interim government that, as part of a peace deal, could include the Taliban. President Ashraf Ghani, who has fumed over the government’s exclusion from the American-Taliban talks, has insisted that the election be held on time.The firings, which came after a series of meetings between the government, civil society groups and political parties, were portrayed as a badly needed consensus on electoral reform. The commissioners called their dismissal a political decision by officials who hope to serve in a new government.The election had already been pushed back from April to July. The panel behind that decision, the Independent Election Commission, was one of two whose members were removed on Tuesday.Replacement commissioners named by Mr. Ghani and his coalition partner, Abdullah Abdullah, will be charged with preparing for a presidential election that will feature both men as candidates.Mr. Ghani has said that only a central government with a strong mandate can negotiate on behalf of the country. The Taliban, dealing directly with the Americans, have refused to include an Afghan government they consider illegitimate.Zalmay Khalilizad, the leader of the American delegation, said last week that he hoped to secure a peace deal before the July election. He said last month that the United States and the Taliban had agreed in principle to the framework of a peace deal.The Afghan election commission was widely accused of sowing confusion and disarray during and after the October parliamentary elections, which were three years late and tainted by accusations of vote-rigging, bribery and incompetence. Winners have been certified for only about a third of the 250 seats in Parliament.The attorney general’s office has prosecuted 313 people accused of violations including forging or selling election stickers and national ID cards needed to cast a vote.In a statement late Tuesday, the office said that the 12 commissioners from the two election bodies were barred from leaving the country, and that investigators had been appointed to look into charges of abuse of authority.The firings have set up a legal confrontation, with all of the dismissed members saying the move violated election law.“The amendment of the election law by a presidential decree of a president who is also a candidate is against the Constitution,” the commissioners said in a joint statement. “This is a political decision, not a legal or constitutional one.”Mr. Ghani’s deputy spokesman, Shahhusain Murtazawi, said the election results remain in place for now. He said protests could be lodged with the second affected commission, called the Independent Election Complaint Commission, or with judicial groups. The head of the commission’s secretariat remains in place as acting director.Given that the officials who administered the election have now been fired, some of the roughly 2,000 losing candidates are expected to protest. If the results are re-examined or canceled, it would affect preparations for a presidential election already behind schedule — with no assurance that the required funding is in place.One losing parliamentary candidate, Fawad Aman, said anyone seated in Parliament would remain under a cloud of suspicion. And if the commissioners were not punished, he said, Afghans could lose faith in the electoral process and refrain from voting.“If they are just dismissed and not prosecuted, it means this is a political game so that the president can have more influence in election commissions and the presidential election,” Mr. Aman said.Nayim Ayubzada, head of the Transparent Election Foundation for Afghanistan, an independent election monitoring group, said that the firings were made too hastily and that the government had paid too little attention to the legal process for addressing fraud accusations.“We worry about this decision because the president is a candidate himself and he may do all these things to turn things in his favor,” Mr. Ayubzada said. “If he decides so hastily about election issues, it will raise questions about the transparency of elections.”Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah will appoint new heads and members of the commissions, selected from candidates put forward by civil society groups and political parties within the next week.Supporters of the firings said they were necessary to make commissioners accountable for bungling an expensive election process that was secured by Afghan forces amid a raging war. Each Afghan election, bankrolled by international donations, has proved at least as problematic as the last.The 2014 presidential election was so fraudulent that, when the two leading candidates claimed victory, it nearly tore the country apart and prompted Western officials to step in as mediators. John Kerry, then the secretary of state, negotiated a power-sharing government between the top two candidates, Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah, with a promise that they would prioritize election reforms to avoid another fiasco.The two men were slow to make progress on reforms, given infighting in the government and the war with the Taliban. Now Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah get to name new commissioners to oversee an election during the peak of the summer fighting season and as the peace process plays out.Those challenges have left many Afghans skeptical of what new commissioners can do. Mr. Ayubzada, the election observer, said he doubted the presidential election would even be held this year, because the process was “so overshadowed by ongoing peace talks and political dealing.”Mujib Mashal contributed reporting from Kandahar, Afghanistan.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byGermany DispatchBy Katrin BennholdBERLIN — It seemed like a no-brainer: Lower Germany’s embarrassingly high carbon emissions at no cost, and save some lives in the process.But when a government-appointed commission in January dared to float the idea of a speed limit on the autobahn, the country’s storied highway network, it almost caused rioting.Irate drivers took to the airwaves. Union leaders menacingly put on their yellow vests, hinting at street protests. And the far-right opposition used the opportunity to rage against the “stranglehold” of the state.A highway speed limit was “contrary to every common sense,” the transport minister, Andreas Scheuer, swiftly declared, contradicting his own experts.And that was that.As far as quasi-religious national obsessions go for large portions of a country’s population, the German aversion to speed limits on the autobahn is up there with gun control in America and whaling in Japan.With few exceptions, like Afghanistan and the Isle of Man, there are highway speed limits essentially everywhere else in the world.But this is Germany, the self-declared “auto nation,” where Karl Benz built the first automobile and where cars are not only the proudest export item but also a symbol of national identity.It’s also the country where, in darker times, Hitler laid the groundwork for a network of multilane highways that in the postwar years came to epitomize economic success — and freedom.Call it Germany’s Wild West: The autobahn is the one place in a highly regulated society where no rule is the rule — and that place is sacred.“It’s a very emotional topic,” confided Stefan Gerwens, the head of transport and mobility at ADAC, an automobile club with 20 million members, which is opposed to any speed limit.So emotional, apparently, that facts and figures count for little.Germany is woefully behind on meeting its 2020 climate goals, so the government appointed a group of experts to find ways to lower emissions in the transport sector. Cars account for 11 percent of total emissions, and their share is rising.A highway speed limit of 120 kilometers an hour, or 75 miles per hour, could cover a fifth of the gap to reach the 2020 goals for the transport sector, environmental experts say.“Of all the individual measures, it is the one that would be the most impactful — and it costs nothing,” said Dorothee Saar, of Deutsche Umwelthilfe, a nonprofit environmental organization that has lobbied for a speed limit.“But when it comes to cars,” Ms. Saar sighed, “the debate tends to become irrational.”There are already speed limits on almost 30 percent of roughly 8,000 miles of autobahn, imposed to regulate noise near urban centers and reduce safety risks on roads deemed unfit for unlimited speeding. The number of deadly accidents on stretches of autobahn that have a speed limit is 26 percent lower than on those without.In 2017, 409 people died on the autobahn and in almost half the cases, the reason was inappropriate speeding, according to the German statistics office.But that hasn’t swayed public opinion.About half of Germans remain opposed to autobahn speed limits, a proportion that has not budged in the last decade, according to Michael Kunert, the director of the polling company Infratest Dimap.An autobahn speed limit would make a significant minority of “people take to the barricades,” Mr. Kunert said. Or at the very least, he added, “it would stop them from voting for a party that passed one.”Once, during the oil crisis in 1973, a German transport minister took his chances and imposed a speed limit. Road deaths stood at over 20,000 a year at the time (six times today’s level) and with oil prices skyrocketing, Lauritz Lauritzen thought Germans might reasonably see the benefits of saving some lives and some money on gas, too.The speed limit lasted four months, and Mr. Lauritzen not much longer.The experiment gave birth to the “Freie Fahrt für freie Bürger!” campaign — or “Freedom to drive for free citizens!” — the car lobby’s most powerful slogan to this day, and one used by political parties and car companies alike, a sort of unwritten second amendment.“It’s all about freedom,” said John C. Kornblum, a former United States ambassador to Germany, who first arrived here in the 1960s, and has been living (and driving) here on and off ever since.“In that sense it really is like gun control,” Mr. Kornblum added, albeit with far fewer deaths. “All the rational arguments are there, but there is barely any point in having a rational debate.”The first autobahn was built in 1932 between Cologne and Bonn, but after the Nazis took power, they downgraded that stretch of highway to a mere “overland road” so Hitler could claim credit for building the autobahn.In 1937, a 20-year-old John F. Kennedy wrote a giddy letter home about his experience of driving on the autobahn with “no speed limit.”A year later, Bernd Rosemeyer, a German racing driver and SS member, used the autobahn for setting speeding records until he crashed into a bridge at over 250 m.p.h. and died a national hero.During World War II, a speed limit was imposed to save gas. But that was swiftly scrapped after the war.“To many people, the idea of a speed limit feels like an affront to masculinity, like we’re getting softer, we’re degenerating,” said Erhard Schütz, a retired professor and expert on the autobahn’s history.Today, catering to wealthy visitors from around the world who want to enjoy the thrills of German-style speeding is a big business for tour companies.“You’re dreaming of driving full-throttle over the German autobahn in a supercar that will blow your mind with absolutely NO SPEED RESTRICTIONS?” one provider asks on its home page. On offer: an 80-minute drive in a Porsche at 699 euros a pop, or $800, complete with a driving instructor and “fully comprehensive insurance.”Even a marketing campaign by the German government, long a die-hard supporter of the auto industry, lists a drive on the autobahn as one of “seven things you must do while in Germany,” right up there with visiting Neuschwanstein castle in Bavaria and listening to the Hamburg philharmonic.Helpfully, the German foreign office also provides a 10-point survival guide to the autobahn. Chief among them: Know your limits.“The left lane is for driving fast, extremely fast,” the guide explains. “Mind the cars bullying slow movers out of the way with indignant honking and incessant headlight flashing.”To avoid accidents, it continues, always keep a safety distance.What’s a safety distance at, say, 200 miles per hour? That, the guide explains, “can easily be calculated by dividing the speed at which you are going by two and leaving that amount in meters between yourself and the car in front of you.”Easy, right?Mr. Kornblum, the former ambassador, remembered taking terrified visiting American diplomats for a drive. “The first reaction is to start screaming, ‘we’re going to die!’ ,” he said. “They just can’t handle it.”Or as the actor Tom Hanks once put it: “No matter how fast you drive in Germany, someone is driving faster than you.”At the United States military air base at Ramstein, senior airman Sara Voigt from Ohio recalled driving on the autobahn for the first time two years ago. Her friend kept telling her she was a safety risk to herself and others — because she was going too slow.“We had to pull over and I switched to the passenger seat,” Ms. Voigt said. “It was scary.”Off the autobahn, Germany remains rife with rules. Some local authorities even dictate the color of sun umbrellas.“Germany is terribly regulated, for reasons which have to do with the past, with a fear of uncertainty, a fear of being overwhelmed,” Mr. Kornblum said. “But then people look for their little spaces of freedom and the autobahn is one of them.”And speeding isn’t the only freedom the autobahn offers.Driving naked in Germany is legal, too. But if you get out of the car nude, you face a $45 fine.Follow Katrin Bennhold on Twitter: @kbennhold.Christopher F. Schuetze contributed reporting from Berlin, and Jack Ewing from Frankfurt.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ivan NechepurenkoMOSCOW — Russian lawmakers voted on Tuesday to prohibit the country’s troops from using smartphones or recording devices, or posting anything online about their military service, after journalists used soldiers’ digital traces to reveal actions the Kremlin wanted to keep secret.In recent years, pictures, videos and social media posts put online by Russian servicemen contradicted the government’s claim that its troops were not fighting in eastern Ukraine and undercut the official line that Russia’s role in the Syrian civil war was limited.The bill’s explanatory note specifically mentions Syria, saying that the analysis of Russian actions there revealed that “military servicemen are of special interest to special services of several states, to terrorist and extremist organizations.”“Information, shared by soldiers on the internet or mass media, is used for informational and psychologic pressure and in separate cases to form a biased assessment of Russia’s state policy,” said the note, signed by Deputy Defense Minister Nikolai A. Pankov.The backing of the Ministry of Defense means that the bill, passed Tuesday by the lower house of Russia’s Parliament, is all but certain to win approval from the upper house. Troops who violate the ban would face disciplinary measures and could be fired from service.In 2014, multiple reports, relying on social media accounts of soldiers returned from Ukraine, revealed that Russia used regular troops to aid pro-Moscow separatists. The troops discussed the casualties among their fellow servicemen, which President  Vladimir V. Putin later decreed were secret.A more sensitive embarrassment came later, after a Malaysia Airlines passenger flight was shot down over Ukraine, and journalists from the investigative group Bellingcat used online photos to track the movement into Ukraine of the Russian antiaircraft missile system that destroyed the plane.Russia still denies any involvement in the incident, but a Dutch criminal investigation, using video and photographic evidence, confirmed that the Russian military supplied the missile.Using social media, Western investigators also revealed that the deployment of Russian troops in Syria in 2015 happened weeks before the official announcement by the Kremlin. Further reports showed that, in contrast to official statements, Russia used troops on the ground there.Ruslan Leviev, head of the Conflict Intelligence Team, a group that has conducted many investigations into the Kremlin’s extensive reach beyond its borders, said that one of the reasons for the new bill is fear of new sanctions against Russia.“The Russian government believes that many of these investigations were one of the reasons behind the imposition and extension of anti-Russian sanctions,” said Mr. Leviev, who was also part of the team that claimed to have revealed the real identities of two Russian agents who were accused by British authorities of poisoning a Russian former spy in Salisbury, England, last year.The Kremlin’s urge to hide its international reach might be ill-fated, Mr. Leviev said.“It is impossible to control so many people,” some of whom have social media accounts under aliases, he said. “Thanks to the development of digital society, we all leave more and more traces online. It is not difficult to find them.”Follow Ivan Nechepurenko on Twitter: @INechepurenko.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Elisabeth MalkinMEXICO CITY — Emma Theissen Álvarez says she will never forget the faces of the three men who came to her Guatemala City house that day in 1981 looking for her daughter, a student leader who had escaped from her military captors. When they did not find their target, they grabbed her 14-year-old son, Marco Antonio, instead.She never saw her boy again.For years, the family said nothing, mute in its pain. But when Ms. Theissen and her three daughters finally went to court, helping secure the convictions of retired military commanders of crimes against humanity, they found a sort of healing.“One feels that one is doing something to bring a little justice to Marco Antonio,” said Ms. Theissen, who is now 84.Now that justice is in peril.In a reversal that seemed unimaginable just a few months ago, Guatemalan lawmakers are moving forward with a proposal to grant amnesty for war crimes committed during the country’s brutal 36-year civil war.The bill, scheduled for a vote on Wednesday, would free more than 30 former army officers, soldiers and civil defense patrolmen within 24 hours and halt investigations into thousands of cases.The amnesty has gained traction in Congress as part of a reaction against a broader fight against impunity and corruption, analysts said. What originally seemed like a push from the fringes of the far right seemed to gather force as President Jimmy Morales, battered by allegations of graft, turned to the military for support.“It’s a reflection of the weakening of the rule of law in Guatemala,” said Alejandro Rodríguez, a former Guatemalan justice official.Backers of the amnesty say they are simply trying to move on and promote peace.“The courts have been infiltrated with judges and prosecuting attorneys with ideological inclinations to one side, the left-wing side, which are the guerrillas,” the congressman who introduced the amnesty law, Fernando Linares, said in a recent interview in Guatemala City.But for victims and their families, the bill is like a denial of justice and a negation of history, said Edgar Pérez, a human rights lawyer who has brought war crimes cases to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights and Guatemalan courts. “For the victims, the sentence is their certificate of truth. It is their history.”Mr. Pérez and other human rights experts say that the proposed amnesty is unconstitutional, and that it violates international treaties, the 1996 peace accords that ended the civil war, and rulings from Guatemala’s highest court.But they fear that in the time it would take for the court to overturn the law, the released war criminals might begin to exact revenge on the witnesses, prosecutors and judges in their cases.More than 200,000 people were killed or disappeared during Guatemala’s bloody conflict between the country’s military and leftist insurgents, according to a United Nations Truth Commission.What began as a campaign of terror against political and peasant activists, as well as union and student leaders, transformed into a scorched-earth offensive against Mayan villages. In the early 1980s, military and paramilitary forces razed whole communities in massacres of untrammeled brutality.The truth commission concluded that security forces and the paramilitary groups they set up were responsible for 93 percent of the human rights violations committed during the conflict. And the role of racism in Guatemala’s still deeply-divided society was also made clear: 83 percent of the identified victims were Mayan, many of them women and children.Although  the United States officially cut off support to the Guatemalan military, the Reagan administration found a way to divert aid to the government of Gen. Efraín Ríos Montt, who was convicted in 2013 of genocide against the Mayan-Ixil population during his rule in 1982 and 1983.After the war, justice was elusive. When Guatemalan prosecutors buried their complaints, victims took their cases to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.Very slowly, the tide began to turn and by 2009, the first cases reached Guatemalan courts. The trial of General Ríos Montt was a watershed, uncovering military orders that showed the military atrocities were part of a deliberate strategy. General Ríos Montt’s conviction was overturned on a technicality and he was being retried when he died last year at 91.The judges “have allowed us to believe a little bit in the system,” said Edwin Canil, the president of the Association for Justice and Reconciliation, an alliance of survivors from seven Mayan groups that brought the case against General Ríos Montt.“We have managed to place these crimes that they wanted to forget in the history of this country,” he said.In January 2016, investigations led to the arrests of 18 former military officers implicated in two prominent cases.One involved a military base in the department of Alta Verapaz, where hundreds of bodies have been exhumed. The other involved the attacks on the family of Emma Theissen Álvarez.Four former senior military officials were convicted, including Benedicto Lucas García, who was the army chief of staff, and Manuel Callejas y Callejas, who was the military intelligence chief.“This was the only possibility that we have had in almost 40 years to place the responsibility, the shame, the guilt on those who are truly responsible for our situation and that of many other victims,” said Marco Antonio’s sister, Emma Guadalupe Molina Theissen, 59. She was detained on a military base where she was raped and tortured before she escaped after nine days.Now many Guatemalans fear a return to impunity.“People had the audacity to believe that the justice system is listening,” said Jo-Marie Burt, a Guatemala expert at George Mason University who has followed the trials closely. “And then for Congress to say that none of that matters, that, we, the army saved the country from terrorism — they want to bring Guatemala back to 1981.”But if the amnesty is approved Wednesday, it will not succeed in turning back time, said Ana Lucrecia Molina Theissen, 64, the eldest of the family’s three daughters.“The image of criminals disguised as heroes, that won’t be recovered,” she said. “That image of heroic, respectable patriots — that will never return for them, never.”Guatemalan lawmakers have brushed aside protests from indigenous groups and human rights groups at home, and appeals from abroad, including a protest from the United States State Department. Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, warned that passage of the bill would have “serious consequences” for United States aid.“A government that shields its armed forces from punishment for crimes against humanity fails in its most sacred obligation to defend justice and uphold the rule of law,” he said.Juan Francisco Soto, a lawyer with the Center for Legal Action on Human Rights in Guatemala City, which represents victims, said the government no longer cared about international respect.“There is an emboldening of the government with this group of lawmakers,” he said. “They want to impose the impunity pact, no matter the cost.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Patricia MazzeiMIAMI — President Trump, speaking to the Venezuelan community in Miami on Monday, put an overtly political gloss on his administration’s push for Venezuela’s leftist president to step aside, casting that country’s turmoil as a cautionary tale for those who would embrace socialism.“Socialism has so completely ravaged this great country that even the world’s largest reserves of oil are no longer enough to keep the lights on,” Mr. Trump said. “This will never happen to us.”Mr. Trump used the speech to send yet another warning to President Nicolás Maduro that his days were numbered.But in South Florida, home to the largest population of Venezuelans in the country, his remarks were also seen as a bid to win over what may be a critical bloc of voters in the 2020 presidential race.The speech was also squarely in keeping with the president’s recent adoption of “socialist” as an all-purpose epithet for his newly empowered Democratic adversaries in the House.Many Democratic lawmakers in South Florida have also called for Mr. Maduro’s ouster. But the White House has repeatedly opted not to invite Democrats to official events on Venezuela. And in his speech on Monday, Mr. Trump went out of his way to praise a slew of Republican officials.To Democrats, all that suggests that the president may be more interested in wooing Venezuelan-Americans and other Latino voters than in promoting bipartisanship on the Maduro issue.“I’m concerned about the Trump administration politicizing this issue, using Venezuelans’ suffering to score political points here in Florida,” said Representative Debbie Mucarsel-Powell, Democrat of Miami. “We shouldn’t be using this as a political weapon.”Florida is a swing state in which elections are often won or lost by tiny margins, and Trump campaign officials see a golden opportunity. If they succeed in driving Mr. Maduro from office, they believe, they may turn Venezuelan-Americans into Republican voters, much like Cuban-Americans before them. Until now, Venezuelans have been seen as leaning Democratic.The most emotional moment of the speech Monday came when Mr. Trump invited to the stage the mother of a rebel police officer who was killed by government forces in Venezuela last year.“I apologize if I start crying,” Aminta Pérez said in Spanish as she took the microphone, pledging to continue her son’s work until “we see a free Venezuela.”“¡Justicia!” the crowd chanted.A president often associated with a wall on the Southern border seemed happy to welcome the Spanish speaker standing next to him.“I don’t know what she said — but I think I know what she said,” Mr. Trump said, vowing that Ms. Pérez’s son, Óscar Pérez, did not die in vain.The president appeared to bask in the boisterous reception he got from about 1,000 people waving American, Venezuelan and Nicaraguan flags.“I am thrilled to be back in the state I love with so many proud, freedom-loving patriots,” he said.The political overtones were impossible to ignore.Throngs of excited supporters wore red “Make America Great Again” hats. Loudspeakers blared the same songs as in Mr. Trump’s rallies. And a stream of speakers before the president used socialism as a campaign-season cudgel.“These Democrats like to call themselves progressive,” said Senator Rick Scott, a Florida Republican. “They’re regressive.”In the United States, as the Democratic Party moves left, putting forward ambitious climate change proposals like the Green New Deal, Mr. Trump has branded party members as socialists.He has employed similar language against Mr. Maduro.“We condemn the brutality of the Maduro regime, whose socialist policies have turned that nation from being the wealthiest in South America into a state of abject poverty and despair,” the president said in his State of the Union address this month.But what might serve the president’s political goals in the United States might backfire when it comes to foreign policy. At least before the speech in Miami, some administration officials said they were concerned that politicizing the issue at home might actually prop up Mr. Maduro in Venezuela, where he is unpopular even among supporters of Hugo Chávez, the former Venezuelan president who founded the country’s socialist party.And the Venezuelan opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, is hardly a right-wing figure, backing social policies that would likely be considered left of center in the United States.“The politics are not left and right,” said Eric Farnsworth, vice president of the Americas Society and Council of the Americas in Washington. “I don’t consider Maduro a leftist. I consider him an authoritarian. This is more about Florida politics.”Mr. Trump was in Florida for Presidents’ Day weekend, and the speech at Florida International University marked a rare disruption of his familiar routine in Palm Beach, where he had spent the past two days shuttling between his private club, Mar-a-Lago, and the Trump International Golf Club.On Monday morning, Mr. Trump appeared more preoccupied with the Justice Department than with the crisis in Venezuela. He fired off five early morning tweets, calling reported discussions there about using the 25th Amendment to remove him from power “illegal and treasonous.”Over the weekend, Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, made a surprise visit to the Colombian border city Cúcuta and played down the possibility of an invasion. But in his speech, the president appeared to offer veiled threats.Mr. Trump said, “We seek a peaceful transition of power, but all options are open.”Mr. Rubio sounded a more pacific tone in Colombia.“The only invasion that people have talked about around me is an invasion of food and medicine,” he said.The senator also played down any link between the Venezuelan crisis and the political map at home.Anatoly Kurmanaev contributed reporting from Cúcuta, Colombia.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byA winner-take-all system within states can produce results counter to the majority for no high-minded reason.By Nate CohnThe debate over the Electoral College this week is familiar, but off point. Set off by criticism from Senator Elizabeth Warren, the discussion has often focused on the system’s real but minor bias toward small states, and the system’s intended (by the founders) but now entirely ineffectual role in preventing the “tyranny” of direct democracy. It largely misses the real reason the Electoral College so often produces results counter to the majority: The winner takes all within most states. You get all of Michigan’s electoral votes whether you win by one vote or a million votes. There are legitimate arguments to keep the present winner-take-all system, even arguments that today’s progressive opponents of the Electoral College could appreciate. In the 1880s, for instance, it limited the electoral gains that white supremacist Democrats reaped by disenfranchising black voters. But the Electoral College also brings the risk of anti-majority outcomes — in which the winner of the national popular vote loses the election — for no high-minded reasons at all, as occurred in 2000 and 2016. It even has the potential to worsen the kind of crises it was intended to prevent. If there’s any argument over the Electoral College that seems to inflame passions on Twitter, it’s about its bias toward small states. States are awarded electoral votes based on the number of representatives in the United States House, which is essentially proportionate to a state’s population, and on the number of senators, which is not. So California gets two electoral votes from its two senators, and much smaller Wyoming also gets two votes from its two senators. Over all, 81 percent of electors are awarded by population, and 19 percent are awarded equally among the states and the District of Columbia.There are circumstances in which this modest bias can prove decisive: a near Electoral College tie, as in 2000. After falling short in Florida, Al Gore lost to George W. Bush by five electoral votes, less than the net 18 votes Mr. Bush gained from small-state bias. But for perspective, that’s the only Electoral College outcome since 1876 that was within the 20 or so electoral-vote margin for the small-state bias to matter. The Electoral College’s small-state bias had essentially nothing to do with Donald J. Trump’s victory. In fact, he won seven of the 10 largest states, and Hillary Clinton won seven of the 12 smallest states. Over all, the Electoral College’s bias toward small states probably cost her a net of four votes — essentially nothing. If there is a benefit to protecting small states, the Electoral College is not doing a great job of providing it. Big states can dominate small ones under the system, and they have done so at times. The true quirkiness of the Electoral College comes from how states award their votes, not how many votes each state has: It’s (largely) winner-take-all. This is the feature that defines the character of American presidential elections. A candidate who narrowly wins the tipping-point states will win the presidency, regardless of the margin of victory in the rest of the country. That means there’s no incentive for candidates to campaign in any noncompetitive state, whether it’s a populous one like California or the opposite, like North Dakota.The winner-take-all bias that elevates the battleground states overruns all of the other biases. If the big states were close and competitive, the big states would decide our elections — as they did until fairly recently. In 1888, another time there was a split between the popular vote and the Electoral College, the candidate who prevailed (Benjamin Harrison) swept the nation’s largest states — including its largest, New York, by one percentage point. What’s so interesting is that this defining feature is largely unintended. It’s not specified in the Constitution. Most states didn’t award their electors on a winner-take-all basis in the first presidential elections, and even today there are two states that do not: Nebraska and Maine, which award some electoral votes by congressional district. If states chose to, they could devise an electoral system that better reflected the popular vote. They could award their electors in proportion to the statewide popular vote, or to the winner of the national popular vote, as some states have sought to do through an interstate compact. No states have moved to do this on their own, for the same reason they drifted to winner-take-all in the first place: Anything else dilutes their power and takes votes away from their favored candidates. The winner-take-all system has essentially nothing to do with the reasons the founders created the Electoral College, like their concern about investing the masses with the power to pick the president. All of the states now award their electoral votes based on the votes of citizens, rather than on the votes of the state legislatures, as many once did. Just because the winner-take-all system is unintended doesn’t mean there isn’t an argument for it. The main, principled argument for it is that it discourages regionalism and encourages a candidate to appeal broadly throughout the country, rather than to a single region. Although this doesn’t always work, it sometimes does. The 1888 election again offers a useful example. That year, Democrats won the popular vote by disenfranchising Republican black voters and running up the score in the Deep South, where they won by 70 percent to 26 percent. Republicans overcame that with some narrow victories in big states and more victories over all.Republicans make a similar claim today about the 2016 election: They argue that Democrats won the popular vote because of their big margin in California, and that the Electoral College properly protected the rest of the country against an imperial California or New York. But that is not what happened. Mr. Trump’s victory in the Electoral College was mainly because of impressive strength in the traditional battlegrounds, not lopsided and inefficient Democratic strength in their regional bastions. Indeed, Mr. Trump did just as well in his base states —  call them Appalachafornia — as Mrs. Clinton did in California. Mr. Trump’s electoral victory was a product of two factors. One was essentially an accident of state lines. The 2016 results could be flipped just by giving the Florida Panhandle to Alabama and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan to Wisconsin. It’s not clear that there was anything about the distribution of Mrs. Clinton’s support that inevitably put it at a disadvantage in a winner-take-all system. The second is that the traditional battlegrounds are whiter and less educated than the country as a whole. Mrs. Clinton’s gains came in well-educated and diverse states that tend to be less competitive, including red states like Arizona, Texas and Utah.If these trends continue, it’s possible that the dynamics of the 2016 election could reverse themselves. Additional Republican gains among white working-class voters could go largely unrewarded, now that they’ve flipped nearly all of the mostly white battlegrounds. One day, Democratic gains in the Sun Belt might flip states like Texas, Georgia and Arizona. America today is not as divided as it was before the Civil War or after. But even if the Electoral College is supposed to discourage regionalism, it can do little to erode it once it takes hold, since it offers no incentive for a candidate to appeal to a place he or she can’t win. In fact, there is no reason that Mr. Trump, who has complained about how he did in California, needs to put his name on the ballot there at all. Nate Cohn is a domestic correspondent for The Upshot. He covers elections, polling and demographics. Before joining The Times in 2013, he worked as a staff writer for The New Republic.  @Nate_Cohn Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jesse McKinley and Shane Goldmacher[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — A handful of the nation’s leading left-leaning Democrats, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, have picked a fight with an unexpected opponent: the New York State Democratic Party.They are fighting over an arcane, but critical, aspect of New York’s election laws that gives small parties the ability to wield significant influence in state politics.The practice, known as fusion voting, allows small political parties to cross-endorse major candidates, which has enabled organizations like the Working Families Party to become a darling of the progressive left and a growing irritant to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo.The State Democratic Party on Monday passed a resolution to get rid of fusion voting. New York is only one of a small handful of states that allow it.Mr. Cuomo has not taken a public position on fusion voting, but it seemed unlikely that the State Democratic Party — whose fealty to the governor is so pronounced that the prayer at the 2018 convention praised his accomplishments — would act without his approval.As such, the dispute could open another fault line between the party’s establishment — represented by Mr. Cuomo, a lifelong centrist who had banked to the left in his second term — and the party’s more insurgent wing, which is still suspicious of the governor’s history of working with Republicans.Mr. Sanders asked Mr. Cuomo on Twitter about his feelings on the issue, saying the state party’s proposed action “reeks of vengeance against progressives and the Working Families Party,” which endorsed Cynthia Nixon in her unsuccessful primary challenge against the governor last year.“What’s more, it’s anti-democratic,” Mr. Sanders said on Twitter. “We should be for more democracy, not less. Don’t you agree @NYGovCuomo?”That tweet was later deleted and replaced with a less confrontational comment. (Josh Orton, a spokesman for Mr. Sanders, said an early draft of the senator’s tweet was accidentally posted and then quickly replaced, and that Mr. Cuomo’s team had not communicated any reaction about the initial tweet.)Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, also on Twitter, conveyed her support for the practice, decrying “New York’s notorious closed-party primaries and calcified political machines,” and calling fusion voting “one of the few bright spots that allows independent NYers to vote their values.”“There isn’t a single good reason to eliminate it,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez wrote.A Cuomo administration official suggested on Monday that the Working Families Party was creating an imagined conflict to stir up support for itself.“I know they were humiliated in last year’s governor’s race, but that’s no excuse to run around spreading lies and ranting about conspiracies,” said Richard Azzopardi, a senior adviser to Mr. Cuomo. “It’s both sad and a bad look.”The state party’s resolution has little practical impact; any effort to eliminate fusion voting must be approved by the Democrat-controlled State Legislature, and such legislation would likely face a difficult path, even with the state party supporting the move. Many Democratic lawmakers benefit from appearing on multiple lines.Much of the Senate Democratic conference, which took control of Albany’s upper chamber in January, is opposed to eliminating fusion voting, including a bloc of six newly elected senators who in a letter released on Monday thanked the W.F.P., and fusion voting, for getting them into office.“Progressives want to make it easier for voters to express their values and viewpoints, not harder,” the six senators wrote. “That means mending our current system of fusion voting, not ending it.”A spokesman for the Senate Democrats, Mike Murphy, said there was “no legislative proposal” to end fusion voting and that the “Senate majority has been clear that we support efforts to empower voters and strengthen New York’s democracy.”By day’s end, nearly two dozen Democratic senators, in a letter to the Democratic leader, Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, said that abolishing fusion voting was a bad idea. They also called on Ms. Stewart-Cousins to decouple any negotiation over fusion voting from the budget, due April 1, when Mr. Cuomo could have some leverage over lawmakers. “The policy debate is too important to New York voters to be left to the 11th hour,” the letter read.On the other side of the Capitol, the Democratic speaker of the Assembly, Carl E. Heastie of the Bronx, was more circumspect, saying he and his conference had not yet discussed the issue.Fusion voting helps facilitate the survival of parties like the Conservative Party and the Independence Party, which often endorse Republicans. Under state law, any party which receives 50,000 votes in a gubernatorial election is guaranteed a spot on the ballot for the next four years.Mr. Cuomo collected votes on four different ballot lines, including the Working Families Party, on the way toward a record vote-tally in November. But the W.F.P. did not endorse Mr. Cuomo in the primary; party leaders, saying they wanted to support a “real Democrat,” chose Ms. Nixon.The W.F.P.’s bet backfired when Mr. Cuomo badly defeated Ms. Nixon in September, and the group subsequently endorsed Mr. Cuomo in the general election in a humbling reversal. Since then, the party has anticipated retribution from Mr. Cuomo, who has been known to hold a grudge.The W.F.P. continued to issue warning shots to the Democratic Party in the last several days, sending out a battery of letters from supporters of fusion voting — including Senators Chuck Schumer, Kirsten Gillibrand, and most of the state’s Democratic House of Representatives delegation — and issuing multiple online pleas for support tagged with #StandWithWFP and #NoFusionBan.After the vote on Monday, the group’s state director, Bill Lipton, also bashed the resolution, accusing the Democratic State Committee of “carrying Cuomo’s water to exact revenge” against progressives and his party. “Luckily, Democratic elected officials, activists and progressive leaders aren’t buying it,” Mr. Lipton said.At the party meeting in Westchester on Monday, several supporters of the resolution seemed to suggest that Democrats were fed up with the influence that small parties like the W.F.P. wield.“I’m tired of the tail wagging the dog,” said Tim Perfetti, the chairman of the Cortland County Democratic Party.Jay Jacobs, the newly elected party chairman and the head of the Nassau County Democratic Party, denied that Mr. Cuomo had called for the party to take up the ban, saying that he, other county leaders and members of the party’s progressive caucus had long wanted it passed, citing election wins by Republicans thanks to third-party votes.Still, Mr. Jacobs acknowledged that the resolution’s passage was unlikely to displease Mr. Cuomo.“Is the governor going to be unhappy about it?” Mr. Jacobs said. “Probably not.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily Cochrane and Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — A dozen Republicans joined Senate Democrats on Thursday to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the southwestern border, arguing that the president had exceeded his powers in trying to build a border wall over Congress’s objections.The 59-to-41 vote on a measure already approved by the House set up the first veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency. It was not a big enough margin to override his promised veto, but Congress has now voted for the first time to block a presidential emergency declaration — and on one of the core promises that animated Mr. Trump’s political rise.“Never before has a president asked for funding, Congress has not provided it, and the president then has used the National Emergencies Act of 1976 to spend the money anyway,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee. “Our nation’s founders gave to Congress the power to approve all spending so that the president would not have too much power. This check on the executive is a crucial source of our freedom.”It was the latest sign that the cautious Republican majority in the Senate, spurred on by a far bolder Democrat-controlled House, was beginning to reassert its authority with a president who had gone virtually unchecked during his first two years in office.Mr. Trump had sought to frame the vote publicly as not only a declaration of support for his border security policies but as a sign of personal loyalty.“It’s pure and simple: It’s a vote for border security; it’s a vote for no crime,” Mr. Trump told reporters before the vote, which he had declared Thursday morning on Twitter to be “a vote for Nancy Pelosi, Crime, and the Open Border Democrats!”But he could not overcome concerns among Republican senators about the legality of redirecting $3.6 billion from military construction projects toward the border wall, even after Congress explicitly rejected the funding request.“I believe the use of emergency powers in this circumstance violates the Constitution,” said Senator Jerry Moran, Republican of Kansas, in a statement written on lined paper. “This continues our country down the path of all powerful executive — something those who wrote the Constitution were fearful of.”Ultimately, nearly a quarter of Senate Republicans joined Senate Democrats in supporting the House-passed resolution of disapproval: Roy Blunt of Missouri, Susan Collins of Maine, Mike Lee of Utah, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Rob Portman of Ohio, Mitt Romney of Utah, Marco Rubio of Florida, Patrick J. Toomey of Pennsylvania, Rand Paul of Kentucky, Roger Wicker of Mississippi, Mr. Alexander and Mr. Moran.The president tweeted that he was looking “forward to VETOING the just passed Democrat inspired Resolution which would OPEN BORDERS while increasing Crime, Drugs, and Trafficking in our Country.”Twelve Republicans joined Democrats to block Trump’s emergency declaration.The House vote to override the upcoming veto is expected on March 26, according to a Democratic leadership aide, though it is unlikely that the chamber can muster the two-thirds vote majority. And Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, promised that would not be the end to it; Democrats will keep forcing repeat votes on the resolution.“I believe the law allows us to bring it up every six months,” he said, “and certainly we would intend to do that.”Regardless, the action in both chambers could bolster a number of lawsuits contesting the emergency declaration as a flagrant violation of the Constitution’s separation of powers.The number of Republican defections underscored the turmoil within the Republican Conference, where senators were torn between supporting Mr. Trump’s vision for border security and asserting Congress’s constitutional prerogative to dictate federal spending.Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina and one of the first to publicly say he would support the resolution, announced he had changed his mind just minutes before the vote — to the disbelief of his colleagues, including Ms. Collins. He had been warned in recent days by North Carolina conservatives that he could face a primary challenger next year for his stand. He said conversations with the White House and his colleagues contributed to his changed vote.Other Republican senators agonized over their votes, as well. Three — Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Ted Cruz of Texas — interrupted Mr. Trump’s dinner with his wife, Melania, on Wednesday night at the White House to share their concerns about the constitutional precedent that Mr. Trump had established.Mr. Cruz initiated the meeting, hoping to sell the president on his own rewrite of the emergency declaration law that would restrict funding from military sources, according to a senior Republican aide with direct knowledge of the proposal. Mr. Trump summoned a lawyer from the White House Counsel’s Office, who said the plan would strip the president of powers he currently possesses. “No way,” an annoyed Mr. Trump told the trio, according to a person with knowledge of the exchange.In the end, all three men sided with Mr. Trump and voted against the resolution.Mr. Graham, along with other lawmakers supportive of the declaration, argued that the president’s declaration was within the jurisdiction of the National Emergencies Act, and was needed to address what the president and his supporters deem to be a crisis at the southwestern border.“I take Congress’s prerogative over appropriations extremely seriously,” said Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader. “But,” he added, “the Senate should not be in the business of misusing specific resolutions to express opinions on more general matters.”The outcome of the vote was as much a reflection of Mr. McConnell’s ambivalence as Mr. Trump’s insistence.The majority leader had strongly advised Mr. Trump against declaring the emergency declaration, and he made a point of not pressuring senators to support the president, urging them to vote according to their consciences and political interests, according to seven Republican aides and lawmakers.At a party lunch in early March, Mr. McConnell canvassed his conference and found virtually no support for the president’s position, according to a person in attendance.The message was not lost on Mr. Trump, who told a visitor to Mar-a-Lago — the president’s club in Palm Beach, Fla. — last weekend that he felt let down by lackluster effort by Republican leaders.In a volley of phone calls with Senate Republicans over the past few weeks, the president warned of the electoral consequences of defying him and dismissed concerns about the constitutional precedent of his order.During a meeting on trade on Wednesday afternoon at the White House, Mr. Trump tried to cajole a handful of members to vote his way, emphasizing that a vote “against border security” would be noticed by the party’s base, according to two people who attended.When Mr. Paul, a libertarian who frequently bucks his party, announced his support for the resolution, the president flew into a rage, according to two people with knowledge of the situation, and called Mr. Paul to demand that he reverse himself. The senator refused.But Mr. Trump also undermined his own efforts at persuasion. He personally sunk attempts by Republican senators this week to limit the number of defections to a handful. Mr. Lee proposed an alternative measure — a bill that would restrict future uses of emergency declarations, but leave Mr. Trump’s order in place — and discussed it in a meeting with other undecided senators as well as Vice President Mike Pence.But the next day, Mr. Trump called Mr. Lee in the middle of a Republican policy lunch to tell him that he would not support the measure. Mr. Lee, who announced the president’s verdict to gasps from his colleagues, then declared his support for the resolution of disapproval.On Thursday, before the vote, the president appeared to reverse himself when he said he would support efforts to update the 1976 law “at a later date.”But it was not enough to overcome opposition from constitutional conservatives, appropriators like Mr. Blunt and Mr. Wicker and hawks who questioned his diversion of funding allocated to the military.As the Senate was delivering its rebuke, senior military commanders announced they would begin to scale back about 40 percent of the 6,000 troops deployed at the southwestern border at Mr. Trump’s request.“It’s a security challenge — not a military threat,” said Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the Joint Chiefs chairman, when asked Thursday morning during a Senate Armed Services hearing to assess the threat posed by an influx of migrants from the Mexican side of the border.Thomas Gibbons-Neff contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byletterA reader suggests that the Senate majority leader’s control of the political process is undemocratic. To the Editor:In “Roadblock to Reform: Mitch McConnell” (editorial, March 9), you quote the Senate majority leader saying something that should be astounding: “Because I get to decide what we vote on.” He speaks the truth, it’s accepted as a routine matter of fact, and that is what should astound any believer in democracy. How can it be that one man can prevent a vote, for any reason he chooses, in a body whose function is to vote on things? How can there be no possibility of overruling his decision, no possibility of, say, a petition signed by two-fifths of senators requiring a full airing of a bill — a discussion, a debate — leading to a vote? Or some such provision.Our system gives the Senate majority leader a veto power greater than the president’s because the decision is absolute and cannot be reversed. How can this be O.K.?Joel RaphaelsonChicagoAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON — A last-ditch gambit to spare Senate Republicans a hostile showdown with President Trump over the Constitution’s separation of powers was torpedoed on Wednesday by the president himself, increasing the likelihood that the Senate will vote on Thursday to overturn the president’s emergency declaration and force the first veto of his term.Hoping to avoid a confrontation with Mr. Trump over his declaration of an emergency to build his coveted border wall, Republicans tried to rally behind legislation to limit the power of presidents to declare emergencies in the future while allowing the current president’s end-run around Congress.But Speaker Nancy Pelosi quickly derided that idea and then Mr. Trump threw cold water on it himself, phoning the Republican author of the new legislation, Senator Mike Lee of Utah, during a Senate luncheon to inform him it was no deal.As a result, Mr. Lee said he would now vote to end the emergency declaration, the fifth Republican “yes” vote — and other Republicans, with no alternative route, are likely to follow.“Unfortunately, it appears the bill does not have an immediate path forward, so I will be voting to terminate the latest emergency declaration,” said Mr. Lee, who had earlier said he did not think the president’s actions were unconstitutional.The outcome left Republicans with a difficult choice. They can back the president in what is widely seen as a surrender of Congress’s core power of controlling federal spending. Or they can join Democrats and break with a president who is popular within the party on his maneuver to build a wall that is also popular with Republicans.To Mr. Trump, the decision is not all that tough.“I think anybody going against border security, drug trafficking, human trafficking, that is a bad vote,” the president told reporters at the White House as he delivered another warning shot to Republicans who would dare to buck him. He also defended the constitutionality of his declaration despite the bipartisan refusal of Congress to fund the wall.“I think it is bad for a Republican senator — I also think it is bad for a Democrat senator — to vote against border security and to vote against the wall,” he said. “I think to vote that way is a very bad thing long into the future.”But Republicans are struggling with the vote. Conservatives such as Mr. Lee and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky — another Republican who says he will vote for the resolution of disapproval — believe that members of Congress have ceded far too much power to the executive branch over the years in an effort to avoid taking politically tough stances themselves. Republicans regularly accused President Barack Obama of executive overreach on issues such as immigration, health care and the environment and now risk being accused of hypocrisy if they stand by while Mr. Trump ignores Congress to do as he wishes.Many Republicans believe that allowing Mr. Trump to redirect money at his own discretion after Congress explicitly forbade it would amount to a final acquiescence to the executive branch that could set a precedent for future Democratic presidents. But they are also in no rush to irritate a president who has shown vast capacity to stir Republican voters or to rile the activist groups that back him.On Wednesday, The Hill newspaper reported that conservative groups such as the Club for Growth were considering backing a primary challenge next year to Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, because of his opposition to Mr. Trump on the emergency declaration and other issues.Looking for a way to not anger Mr. Trump and salvage some congressional pride, Mr. Lee introduced his proposal that would require Congress to approve any emergency declaration or it would terminate after 30 days at most. That would mean approval by Congress would be required rather than the current arrangement in which Congress is given the option of disapproving an emergency declaration and the president can veto it. Under the current legislative arrangement, Congress can block an emergency declaration only if opponents can muster the two-thirds vote to override a veto.“If we don’t want our president acting like a king, we need to start taking back the legislative powers that allow him to do so,” Mr. Lee said.The Lee bill, however, would have no impact on the president’s current emergency declaration. Republicans saw it as a way to both back Mr. Trump and close the door to future use of the declarations by presidents — notably Democratic presidents — to circumvent Congress.But the reception was not good. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, mocked the proposal as “bunk.”“What a fig leaf,” he exclaimed.Ms. Pelosi effectively killed it by declaring that the House would not even consider the plan. “Republican senators are proposing new legislation to allow the president to violate the Constitution just this once in order to give themselves cover,” she wrote in a statement on Wednesday morning. “The House will not take up this legislation to give President Trump a pass.”Even before he spoke to reporters, Mr. Trump took issue on Twitter with Republican senators and their reticence to back him.“Republican Senators are overthinking tomorrow’s vote on National Emergency,” the president said. “It is very simply Border Security/No Crime — Should not be thought of any other way. We have a MAJOR NATIONAL EMERGENCY at our Border and the People of our Country know it very well!”But the president’s stand only increased the likelihood that the Democratic resolution to block his emergency would pass — less than 24 hours after the Senate rebuked him on a separate issue by voting to end military assistance for Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen.While it would be a loss for Mr. Trump, it may not be as bad as it could have been.When the president first announced his determination to move forward with the emergency after signing a spending bill to end the government shutdown in February, there was significant dissent among Republican senators and the White House faced a wider revolt.In the interim, through a concerted personal campaign, Mr. Trump has had some success in limiting defections. Proponents of overturning the declaration are likely to be far short of the 67 Senate votes needed to override the promised veto.Still, congressional passage of a resolution of disapproval could help the plaintiffs in a number of lawsuits who are suing to block the declaration as a flagrant violation of the Constitution.Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — Time and again — when President Trump stood by Saudi Arabia after the killing of a Virginia-based journalist, when it looked as if he might intervene in the special counsel’s Russia investigation and when he threatened to declare a national emergency to pay for his border wall — lawmakers on Capitol Hill warned him not to push them too far.This week, in a remarkable series of bipartisan rebukes to the president, Congress pushed back.On Wednesday, with seven Republicans breaking ranks, the Senate joined the Democrat-led House in voting to end American military aid to Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen in protest over the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, a columnist for The Washington Post. On Thursday morning, the House voted unanimously on a nonbinding resolution to make public the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.And on Thursday afternoon, 12 Republican senators abandoned the president to pass legislation, already adopted by the House, that would block Mr. Trump from declaring a national emergency to build his border wall — an act of defiance that he has vowed to overturn with the first veto of his presidency.“We’re saying today, ‘No, we do not acquiesce to this,’” Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, said after voting to block the emergency declaration. “We do not agree that the president should be able to come in and go against the express intention of the Congress when it comes to these appropriated funds” for his wall.The series of votes vividly demonstrated a newfound willingness to stand up to the president among some of his Republican allies on Capitol Hill. And they underscored a deep frustration in Congress about the president’s supposed scorn for a coequal branch of government.“We have an issue that has been litigated and adjudicated through Congress. I mean, what was more litigated than this very question? We had a government shutdown for crying out loud,” said Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, referring to funding for the border wall, which Mr. Trump is trying to secure with an emergency declaration that would circumvent Congress.“It’s about separation of powers,” Mr. Toomey said. “It’s about respecting the principles of the Constitution.”For some Republicans, particularly those who have typically voted in lock step with the president, the votes were a moment of soul searching during a harried week before recess, when most lawmakers were looking forward to getting out of town. The Yemen vote was an exceedingly rare invocation of the 1973 War Powers Act, passed after the Vietnam War to restrain the president’s authority to use military force.“We don’t often have great votes about great questions around here about separation of powers,” said Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, adding, “I don’t think you can overstate how important it is that for the first time in the history of the country, the full Congress voted to tell the president that we can’t be in a war.”Mr. Trump made it clear he would fight the bipartisan challenges to his authority.“He feels good,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, a close ally of Mr. Trump who talked to the president shortly after the vote. “He said, ‘My veto will be sustained?’ I said, ‘Yeah, overwhelmingly.’ He feels like his commitment to build the wall is moving forward.”But the rare coalition of Democrats and Republicans could bolster legal challenges to the emergency declaration that could tie up wall funding indefinitely. And the mere act of defying Mr. Trump foreshadows potential new difficulty for the president as he seeks to push his agenda through a Democrat-controlled House and a less pliant Republican-controlled Senate.“There are moments where you see a partisan rebuke” of the president by Congress, said William G. Howell, a political scientist at the University of Chicago and the author of “Power Without Persuasion: The Politics of Direct Presidential Action.” “They are really pretty infrequent, and when you do observe them it speaks to real tumult in the party.”Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said he hoped “the votes this week are green shoots: Republicans, out of courage, out of principle and maybe out of principle or maybe exasperation, are beginning to constrain the president when he goes too far.”Most Republicans cast their votes as a matter of conscience, and some Republicans who fashion themselves “constitutional conservatives,” such as Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, tied themselves in knots explaining how vexed they were to side with the president. Senator Thom Tillis of North Carolina, one of the first Republicans to declare his support for overturning the emergency declaration, faced a huge backlash from conservatives and flipped his vote at the last second.House Republicans, who joined Democrats in voting to call for Mr. Mueller’s report to be made public, insist there was no tumult.But Democrats saw it as an important declaration of principle. “Congress is finally asserting its authority under the Constitution — with enthusiasm,” said Representative Donna E. Shalala, Democrat of Florida, who spent eight years in the executive branch as health secretary to President Bill Clinton.The rejection of Mr. Trump’s national emergency declaration could also give ammunition to a half-dozen legal cases challenging the president’s exercise of that power under the 1976 National Emergencies Act, said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who led the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush.“Some judges may count that as evidence of congressional intent,” Mr. Goldsmith said, though he added that he disagreed with that view.Dror Ladin, a staff lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union, said Congress’s action would help convince federal judges that the president was acting illegally to fund his wall.“This vote reinforces that the president has no right to that money,” Mr. Ladin said.But as a political matter, Mr. Trump could use the congressional votes to his advantage on the 2020 campaign trail, portraying himself once again as the outsider candidate battling an unpopular Congress and the establishment in Washington.Congress has for decades been what Ross K. Baker, a political scientist at Rutgers University, calls a “constitutional weakling” — excessively deferential to the president. But there have been moments in history where the legislative branch seeks to assert its power and relevance, particularly with respect to the military and foreign engagement.That happened in the 1970s with the passage of the War Powers Act, which gave Congress the ability to compel the removal of military forces absent a formal declaration of war. Congress exerted its authority in 1991 and again in 2002, when it authorized the president to use military force in the run-up to both wars in Iraq.In 2005, amid a public uproar over the torture of detainees, Congress tightened antitorture laws to ban the infliction of “cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment” on prisoners — including those held overseas by the C.I.A. — over the objections of President Bush.Now the fight over wall funding may incite yet another round of congressional muscle-flexing. A number of Republicans are pushing legislation to claw back the powers that Congress gave the president in the National Emergencies Act, which Mr. Trump invoked to declare an emergency along the southwestern border.“The Senate’s waking up a little bit to our responsibilities,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byIt has not stood the test of time. By Jamelle BouieOpinion ColumnistIt’s still well under the radar, but the movement to circumvent the Electoral College gained ground this week. On Sunday, Jared Polis, the governor of Colorado, said he would sign a bill to join the National Popular Vote interstate compact, whose members have pledged to give their electoral votes to the winner of the national popular vote. The Maine Legislature, likewise, is mulling membership and will hold hearings to discuss the issue.Attacking those lawmakers, Paul LePage, the former governor of Maine — who still calls into conservative radio shows from his retirement home in Florida — dismissed the proposal as an attack on the political rights of white people. “Actually what would happen if they do what they say they’re going to do is white people will not have anything to say,” he said. “It’s only going to be the minorities that would elect. It would be California, Texas, Florida.”That is racist nonsense. But it’s useful to think about, in a way, because beneath LePage’s objection is an unintentionally keen observation about the electoral status quo. If direct election of the president would give equal weight to all votes, then the Electoral College works to give outsize weight to a narrow group of voters in a handful of states. That bias is why Donald Trump is president. A healthy plurality chose his opponent, but his supporters dominated key “swing” states.It could happen again. A 2018 report on America’s future political demography found four realistic scenarios in which Democrats win the national popular vote but lose the Electoral College because of the geography of the electorate. The 2020 election could be the third time in six elections that the White House went to the loser of the popular vote.That is why Electoral College reform deserves a prominent place in the national conversation, especially as the Democratic Party champions a host of pro-democracy reforms, such as public financing of elections and an end to gerrymandering.As it stands, the most visible Democrat speaking against it is the former Attorney General Eric Holder, who on Tuesday called for its abolition. “Time to make Electoral College a vestige of the past,” he said on Twitter. “It’s undemocratic, forces candidates to ignore majority of the voters and campaign in a small number of states. The presidency is our one national office and should be decided — directly — by the voters.”Of course, there are not enough votes in Congress or the states to pass and ratify an amendment abolishing the Electoral College. Beyond partisan politics — Republicans currently benefit from its distortions — there’s sentimental attachment to the institution, tied to popular mythology about the Constitution. In this view, the Electoral College is one of the great compromises of the Constitutional Convention, part of the wisdom and genius of the “founding fathers” who sought a middle path between pure democracy on the one hand and anti-majoritarianism on the other.The truth is less noble. The Electoral College was actually a workaround meant to satisfy a divided Constitutional Convention at the cost of actual functionality. The framers considered three ways to elect a president.Roger Sherman of Connecticut proposed election by Congress, to make the executive “absolutely dependent on that body, as it was the will of that which was to be executed.”Gouverneur Morris of Pennsylvania proposed popular election. “If the people should elect,” Morris said, “they will never fail to prefer some man of distinguished character, or services; some man, if he might so speak, of continental reputation.”Objections came from George Mason of Virginia, who thought “the extent of the Country renders it impossible that the people can have the requisite capacity to judge of the respective pretensions of the Candidates”— and other Southern delegates who feared domination by the largest states. “The most populous States by combining in favor of the same individual will be able to carry their points,” said Charles Pinckney of South Carolina.Southern opposition came with obvious subtext. By population, South Carolina was the seventh largest of 13 states. Maryland was the sixth. North Carolina was the third. And Virginia was a colossus — the largest state in the incipient union. But large minorities of their residents were enslaved. In Virginia, it was roughly 40 percent, giving the state a smaller voting population than its more populous neighbors to the north.Hugh Williamson of North Carolina made this point explicit in his objection: Because there won’t always be “distinguished characters” with national recognition who could win a majority of votes, “the people will be sure to vote for some man in their own State, and the largest State will be sure to succeed.” But this will not be Virginia, “since her slaves will have no suffrage.”James Madison, another Virginian, actually favored popular election of the president but saw the writing on the wall. “The right of suffrage was much more diffusive in the Northern than the Southern states,” he said a few days later as discussion continued, “and the latter could have no influence in the election on the score of the Negroes.”Debate over executive election began in mid-July. It resumed in late August, and the framers settled on a solution in early September, less than two weeks before the convention would adjourn. Their compromise centered on an idea introduced at the start of the discussion: Instead of direct election or election by legislature, states would choose electors who would then elect the president and vice president from a group of candidates. To preserve an element of popular election, each state would receive electors equal to its congressional delegation, which would also account for states with large enslaved populations, since the convention had already reached agreement on how to count slaves for legislative apportionment. If no candidate received a majority, the election would go to Congress.The historian Jack Rakove notes how few of the framers “expected the electors to do anything more than nominate candidates.” They would winnow the field, and then elected representatives would actually choose the president.The system worked as intended in two elections: 1789, when George Washington won his first time, and 1792, when he won again. Its flaws were apparent by 1796, when John Adams became president with the runner-up Thomas Jefferson as his vice president, despite being opponents who had running mates aligned with their political factions. The following year, in response to this fiasco, a South Carolina congressman introduced an amendment requiring each elector to cast separate votes for president and vice president.It would take deadlock to force action. In 1800, Jefferson ran again against Adams with Aaron Burr as his running mate. Their party, the Democratic-Republicans, won a majority of voters (a scant 67,282 ballots out of a free white male population of roughly one million and a total adult population of more than two million) and electors. But those electors cast an equal number of votes for Jefferson and Burr, forcing the election into the House of Representatives, where a lame-duck Federalist majority saw its chance to stymie Jefferson.Burr was poised to become president despite not actually standing for the office. It took months of heated political conflict — with Alexander Hamilton, a Federalist, lobbying the House to choose Jefferson — to resolve the standoff. After dozens of ballots, Jefferson was elected president. To keep another such crisis from blowing up the political system, Congress passed the 12th Amendment to the Constitution, ratified in 1804, which distinguished clearly between votes for president and vice president and streamlined other elements of the process.The history of the Electoral College from this point is of Americans working around the institution, grafting majoritarian norms and procedures onto the political process and hoping, every four years, for a sensible outcome. And on an almost regular schedule, it has done just the opposite. The presidency went to the popular-vote loser in 1824 (John Quincy Adams; his opponent, Andrew Jackson, also won the most electoral votes), 1876 and 1888. In the 20th century, Americans had close calls in the elections of 1948, 1960, 1968 and 1976, with near splits in the popular and electoral vote. Despite winning the popular vote in six of the past seven presidential elections, Democrats have held the presidency for only four of those terms, under Bill Clinton and Barack Obama.This obvious dysfunction is why the Electoral College has been a source of persistent dissatisfaction, with generations of lawmakers introducing new proposals for modifying or abolishing the system outright. Indeed, after the 1968 election, a commission of the American Bar Association recommended “direct popular election of the president,” calling the “Electoral College method of electing a president of the United States archaic, undemocratic, complex, ambiguous, indirect, and dangerous.”None of this has changed. The Electoral College routinely threatens or produces perverse outcomes, where the will of the voters is thwarted by an ill-considered 18th-century electoral device. It has no place in a democracy that strives for a standard of “one person, one vote.” And most Americans still don’t like it. In a 2018 survey from the Public Religion Research Institute, 65 percent said presidents should be elected by popular vote.The simplest solution for circumventing the Electoral College is the National Popular Vote interstate compact I mentioned earlier, which would take effect once the member states made up a majority of electoral votes.Americans worried about disadvantaging small states and rural areas in presidential elections should consider how our current system gives presidential candidates few reasons to campaign in states where the outcome is a foregone conclusion. For example, more people live in rural counties in California, New York and Illinois that are solidly red than live in Wyoming, Montana, Alaska and the Dakotas, which haven’t voted for a Democratic presidential candidate in decades. In a national contest for votes, Republicans have every reason to mobilize and build turnout in these areas. But in a fight for states, these rural minorities are irrelevant. The same is true of blue cities in red states, where Democratic votes are essentially wasted.Candidates would campaign everywhere they might win votes, the way politicians already do in statewide races. Political parties would seek out supporters regardless of region. A Republican might seek votes in New England (more than a million Massachusetts voters backed Donald Trump in 2016) while a Democrat might do the same in the Deep South (twice as many people voted for Hillary Clinton in Louisiana as in New Mexico). This, in turn, might give nonvoters a reason to care about the process since in a truly national election, votes count.If nothing else, our quadrennial game of political hot potato can finally come to an end. We can close off this glaring flaw in our political system and stop worrying about another president who lost the popular vote by millions and the anger, rancor and mistrust that comes with that.But the inertia behind the Electoral College is strong, which is why it needs vocal opponents making their case as loudly and often as possible. That includes Democratic politicians, including the group running for president. A primary campaign is the perfect forum for raising the issue, giving it high-profile support and wide attention. That, in turn, might move Americans from passive dissatisfaction with the status quo to action against it. Eventually — and really it can’t come too soon — Americans could at least vote as though they live in a modern democracy.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Jamelle Bouie became a New York Times Opinion columnist in 2019. Before that he was the chief political correspondent for Slate magazine. He is based in Charlottesville, Va., and Washington.  @jbouie Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Pérez-PeñaLONDON — What now?Now that European leaders have agreed to a short postponement of Brexit, as Britain’s scheduled withdrawal from the European Union is known, what happens next?Another vote in the British Parliament on some version of Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan? A short delay and a cliff-edge Brexit? A slightly longer delay and a victory for the prime minister? A very long delay and a softer from of Brexit? Another vote of confidence on Mrs. May? An upheaval within one or both major political parties? Early elections? Another referendum? No Brexit?The answers are: maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe and maybe. More nuanced responses range from “probably” to “probably not, but you never know,” with a liberal sprinkling of “no one has a clue.”The process leaving the European Union continues to defy easy prediction, despite the fast-approaching prospect of an abrupt, chaotic exit for Britain that might be an economic disaster.So here is the situation Mrs. May and her nation find themselves in, as well as the possible routes ahead.The one certain result of the meeting of European Union leaders in Brussels on Thursday is that Brexit will not take effect on March 29, the date that was set two years ago.Mrs. May negotiated a withdrawal agreement with the European Union, but Parliament has rejected that deal twice, each time by very wide margins. And last week it voted against leaving without any agreement in place — the “no-deal” or “cliff-edge” scenario — and told Mrs. May to ask for a postponement.So after insisting for almost two years that Brexit would go ahead on March 29, Mrs. May gave in and requested an extension until the end of June.But the European Union refused to give her that much time, declaring instead that the British Parliament must decide what it wants to do by April 12.If lawmakers somehow approve Mrs. May’s deal by then, the exit date would become May 22, to give them time to pass all the additional legislation it would require.If not, European leaders said, Britain’s choices would be a cliff-edge Brexit on April 12, no Brexit at all or a much longer delay, possibly two years. Each of those options is opposed by most of Parliament, as is the deal on the table.On Monday, lawmakers could take the first big step toward wresting control of Brexit policy away from Mrs. May.They are scheduled to vote on proposed amendments to her plan, including one that would give Parliament a rapid-fire series of votes on specific alternatives to the plan. A similar proposal was defeated last week, but barely.For Parliament to decide to weigh in like that might not have much practical effect, because the votes would not be binding on the government. But it would be an enormous political blow to the prime minister, who is on increasingly shaky ground.Mrs. May wants to try a third time, possibly next week, to get her plan through Parliament. But to succeed, she would have to change the minds of about 70 lawmakers who have already voted against it twice.The speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, ruled this week that she cannot have another vote on the same proposal unless she offers something new. The European Union has insisted that it is done negotiating, and there will be no further changes. The new dates might count as enough of a difference, but Mr. Bercow has yet to confirm this.British lawmakers have stated repeatedly what they don’t want, but have given no reason to believe that they can agree on what they do want. Some have demanded a more complete break with the bloc than Mrs. May proposes. Others would prefer a withdrawal that keeps Britain closely tied to Europe, and a sizable faction is holding out for no Brexit at all.The leader of the opposition Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn, could try to bring down the government by a vote of no confidence. He forced such a vote in January and lost, but Mrs. May’s standing has only worsened since then.The problem is that the British government cannot say what sort of relationship it wishes to have with the European Union once Britain leaves the bloc.Mrs. May’s deal would mostly keep Britain tied to European customs and trade rules until the end of 2020, while the two sides work out long-term arrangements.If Brexit were to take place without an agreement, then all products going between Britain and the bloc would suddenly become subject to tariffs and quality checks, which would be cumbersome and time consuming.Britain does not have the physical infrastructure or bureaucracy to manage such checks, nor do some of its European trading partners. The British government has said it will wave trucks through the border, at least for the first several months, but the European Union will not. So trade would slow down, particularly on the Continental side, hurting merchants of perishable goods and manufacturers; some products could be barred from crossing borders; and experts predict higher prices and shortages.In addition, Britain has no trade treaties with most of the world, including the United States, because it has operated under the European Union’s treaties, and negotiating new ones can take years. In a no-deal Brexit, the existing arrangements would abruptly cease to exist and Britain would default to rules set by the World Trade Organization, upending the way every importer, exporter and regulator in the country operates.Economists and the government say that leaving without a plan in place would do severe economic harm. But the most ardently pro-Brexit lawmakers in Britain insist that the cliff edge is nothing to fear, and preferable to a long delay.There is at least one set of elections approaching that could affect Brexit, and others are possible.European Union member countries are scheduled to hold elections for the European Parliament from May 23 to 26.But if there were a two-year delay for Brexit, as some European officials have proposed, then Britain would be in an awkward position: It would be required to participate in elections, which the major British political parties do not want to take part in, to govern a bloc it intends to abandon.The exit dates set in Brussels were chosen with these European elections in mind: May 22 is the day before Britain would have voted, and April 12 is the last day it could start preparations to hold a vote.One of the nonbinding amendments Parliament might consider on Monday would approve Mrs. May’s deal, but only if it were also approved by popular vote. Many lawmakers want to go further and hold another referendum on the overall question of whether to leave the bloc, rerunning the vote held in 2016.Mrs. May has opposed both a long Brexit postponement and a second referendum, and any reversal would infuriate pro-Brexit members of her Conservative Party.In addition, the opposition Labour Party has been demanding early elections for a new British Parliament, and there is widespread speculation that Mrs. May — or a possible successor — might eventually be forced to call such elections.Brexit opponents are demanding a “people’s vote,” insisting that they would win such a referendum this time, and accusing resistant lawmakers of forcing an unwanted calamity on them. Brexit supporters say a do-over would be a slap in the face to those who voted the first time, and predict a backlash.With emotions running very high, a second referendum could tear at the fabric of both the Labour and Conservative parties, and of the nation as a whole. Some political analysts say the issue might even split one or both parties apart.Mrs. May has steadfastly insisted that she will deliver on the referendum, but her stance in the 2016 campaign was anti-Brexit. Most Conservatives supported Brexit, many of them doubt that Mrs. May is really on their side, and a significant minority in the party opposes Brexit.Further complicating matters, the Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, who was officially anti-Brexit in 2016, is a longtime euroskeptic who is widely seen as wanting to leave. Most Labour supporters opposed Brexit, many of them doubt that Mr. Corbyn is really on their side and a significant minority in the party is pro-Brexit.Early parliamentary elections would be likely to revolve around Brexit, and expose the same fissures.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byWord of the DayBy The Learning Network: be a mystery or bewildering to_________The word flummox has appeared in 85 articles on NYTimes.com in the past year, including on Feb. 26 in “Two African-American Women Are Headed for Runoff in Chicago’s Mayor Race” by Julie Bosman, Mitch Smith and Monica Davey:The city’s votes were sprinkled widely across the massive field of 14 candidates who had hoped to replace Mr. Emanuel, who didn’t run for a third term. With 92 percent of the votes counted, Ms. Lightfoot had the highest vote tally, with about 17 percent. Ms. Preckwinkle had 16 percent, and Mr. Daley, who was well funded and who many here had expected to easily make the runoff, came in just below 15 percent..... For weeks, the sheer number of candidates seemed to have left some Chicagoans flummoxed — unsure, even in the final hours, whom they would vote for. Some political strategists said they wondered if that might discourage some people from voting at all in the election, which is technically nonpartisan, though Democrats reliably win._________The Word of the Day and the quiz question have been provided by Vocabulary.com. Learn more and see usage examples across a range of subjects in the Vocabulary.com Dictionary.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byIt happens through election fraud and voter suppression. And Republicans are the culprits.By Carol AndersonDr. Anderson is the author of “One Person, No Vote: How Voter Suppression Is Destroying Our Democracy.”On Tuesday, the Justice Department opened an investigation into alleged election fraud in North Carolina’s Ninth Congressional District. Neither the details of the crime nor the culprits, however, match the scenario that has led to an array of Voter ID laws, voter roll purges and similar efforts “to protect the integrity of the ballot box.” The Republicans would have the nation believe that the threat to our democracy is from voter fraud, where someone impersonates someone else to cast an illegal ballot or multiple ballots to “steal elections.” But the chance of voter fraud occurring is, at best, 0.0000044 percent. The real theft of American democracy happens through election fraud and voter suppression. And Republicans are the thieves.What happened in North Carolina during the 2018 midterms was a textbook case of election fraud. That’s when a candidate’s campaign sets out to manipulate vote tallies to steal an election. In the Ninth Congressional District, the Republican candidate, Mark Harris, hired Leslie McCrae Dowless, an election operative with a “shady” reputation, to ensure that there would be enough votes to send Mr. Harris to Capitol Hill. Even though Mr. Harris’s son, an assistant United States attorney, repeatedly warned him against this hire. When the ballots were tallied, Mr. Harris was ahead by 905 votes. His total included 61 percent of the absentee ballots in Bladen County, though only 19 percent there were cast by Republicans. Something was also awry in Robeson County, where 40 percent of African-Americans’ absentee ballots and 60 percent of Native Americans’ absentee ballots were never officially turned in. Mr. Dowless, elections officials concluded, had illegally gathered, altered and discarded more than 1,000 absentee ballots in Bladen and Robeson Counties. The election’s results were so bizarre that the state elections board refused to certify the vote. Mr. Dowless and four other people are now under indictment. Faced with this brazen attempt to steal a congressional seat, most of the national Republican leadership simply went silent.The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, who has repeatedly articulated his contempt for voting rights, laid the blame for the election fraud debacle on Democrats and their refusal to back voter ID laws. This was catnip for the Republican base, which has been convinced that voter fraud happens regularly. And Mr. McConnell managed to swap the reality of election fraud for the fiction of voter fraud to mask that it was the Republican who hired the disreputable campaign operative. Mr. McConnell’s legerdemain also hid the fact that voter ID would have had no effect whatsoever on Mr. Dowless’s scheme because government-issued photo IDs are not required for absentee voting in North Carolina.Republicans in North Carolina’s state legislature, instead of addressing the obvious weaknesses in the absentee ballot procedure, or heeding a past court warning about the rampant racial discrimination in its voting laws, doubled down and continued to deploy the lie of voter fraud to craft yet another piece of voter ID legislation. Although it was stopped by a court, the targets of the new law, as before, were African-Americans, whose voter turnout rate had surpassed that of whites in 2012 but dropped significantly after the state implemented voter suppression legislation in 2013. The result of the statehouse’s new efforts, as an editorial in The Charlotte News & Observer noted, would most likely have resulted “in hundreds of thousands of disenfranchised voters.”The attempt to eviscerate American citizens’ voting rights was not just confined to North Carolina, however. In Texas, Republicans once again invoked “voter fraud” to mask their effort to steal democracy.In January, the interim secretary of state, David Whitley, issued a press release stating that his office had uncovered 95,000 noncitizens on the voter rolls and that it appeared 58,000 of them had voted at some point in the state’s elections.This was the voter fraud beast that the Republicans had warned about. “We knew it was happening and now we have proof,” asserted James Dickey, the chairman of the Texas Republican Party. “Our voter rolls must be purged to protect our elections.” Attorney General Ken Paxton immediately announced that his office “stands ready to investigate and prosecute crimes against the democratic process when needed.” Not to be outdone, President Trump used the bully pulpit of his Twitter account to point to Texas as proof that immigrants were a threat to American democracy. “These numbers are just the tip of the iceberg,” he assured. “All over the country, especially in California, voter fraud is rampant. Must be stopped.” Then he added that special touch for his followers: “Strong voter ID!” Mr. Whitley advised county officials to identify the illegal voters and purge their names immediately. Mr. Paxton would take care of the rest.Within days, however, election officials in Harris County, which includes Houston, revealed that that 95,000 number was as solid as papier mâché. Mr. Whitley had used a driver’s license database that doesn’t track when or if an immigrant becomes a citizen during the six-year window when a license is issued and expires. Since more than one million Texans had become naturalized citizens during the time frame of the list, this was not insignificant. The Harris County election officials found in their initial review that about 60 percent of the names flagged were of naturalized citizens. In short, Republicans in Texas were poised to purge thousands of American citizens’ names from the voting rolls simply because they had once been immigrants.Even as Mr. Whitley’s efforts drew fire from numerous groups, State Senator Paul Bettencourt, a Republican, barreled ahead with a bill to flat out steal voting rights from naturalized citizens. The bill would remove suspected non-citizens from the voter rolls and jail county election officials who balked at carrying out this voting-while-brown law.The right to vote, and therefore American democracy, is once again under attack. The violence is quieter than before. But it is equally lethal. The only thing that will save us is a restored Voting Rights Act.Carol Anderson is a professor of African American Studies at Emory University and the author of “White Rage: The Unspoken Truth of Our Racial Divide.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House on Tuesday failed to overturn President Trump’s first veto, leaving the declaration of a national emergency at the southwestern border intact despite the bipartisan passage of a resolution attempting to nullify the president’s circumvention of Congress to fund his border wall.Despite concerns about the constitutional separation of powers and the effect of Mr. Trump’s move on local military projects, the 248-to-181 vote fell short of the two-thirds majority needed to kill the national emergency declaration.Republicans in both chambers had joined Democrats in passing the resolution disapproving his national emergency just weeks ago, voicing discomfort over the president’s intent to divert funding to the construction of a border wall without congressional approval. Mr. Trump, issuing the first veto of his administration, had called the resolution “dangerous,” “reckless,” and a “vote against reality.”But only 14 Republicans ultimately joined House Democrats in voting to override the veto, one more than the 13 who voted for the resolution of disapproval a month ago. (Representative John Katko, Republican of New York, had said he would support the measure, but missed the earlier vote.)Mr. Trump then thanked House Republicans “for sticking together.” “Today’s vote simply reaffirms Congressional Democrats are the party of Open Borders, Drugs and Crime!” he wrote on Twitter.Democrats had hoped that the publication of all the military construction projects that could see funding delays as Mr. Trump pursued wall money would sway their Republican colleagues. They framed the vote around both lofty constitutional principles and parochial home-district matters.“Even when the legislative branch disagrees with the executive, we respect the office the president holds and it’s his right to veto legislation,” said Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, speaking on the floor ahead of the vote.“But when those decisions violate the Constitution,” she added, “then that must be stopped.”House Republican leaders, however, derided the vote as political gamesmanship and a waste of time.Democratic lawmakers and aides say they have not ruled out the possibility of reintroducing the resolution in six months, and they could use other legislative options to block the president’s effort to take as much as $3.6 billion in military construction funds for the wall.The House vote on Tuesday on ending Trump’s national emergency.For now, the political fight over Mr. Trump’s national emergency declaration shifts to the courts, where a number of states and organizations have joined lawsuits challenging the legal merits of the order. Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, warned in a statement that the 20 states involved in legal action “are ready to fight long and hard to stop his fabricated emergency in its tracks.”The judicial machinations will most likely prevent the president and Pentagon officials from immediately tapping military funds for border wall construction, and the Defense Department has yet to prepare a final list of what projects could have funding delays. It is unclear when the list will be available.In the interim, the Pentagon has taken the first steps to begin diverting money from other Defense Department funds toward constructing fencing at the border. On Monday, Patrick M. Shanahan, the acting defense secretary, authorized the transfer of up to $1 billion from military personnel funding toward the construction of 57 miles of border fencing, improving roads and adding lighting in Yuma, Ariz., and El Paso, according to a letter sent to the Department of Homeland Security.Military officials have said that they do not need congressional approval for such an action. But across Capitol Hill on Tuesday, lawmakers pressed Pentagon officials about the potential effect on military construction and the merits of a wall at the southwestern border.“To look at the Pentagon as a piggy bank, slush fund, where you can grab money for something when you need it really undermines the credibility of the entire D.O.D. budget,” said Representative Adam Smith of Washington, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.At a hearing on Tuesday, Mr. Smith warned Mr. Shanahan and General Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that Congress would respond to the reallocation of funds without congressional approval by curtailing the privilege of such reallocations in the spending bills for the next fiscal year.Mr. Shanahan, testifying before the committee for the first time as acting head of the Defense Department, acknowledged the “complexities of the southwest border situation” and said officials understood “significant downsides of losing what amounts to a privilege.”“Those risks were weighed, and given the legal order from the commander-in-chief,” Mr. Shanahan said. “We are executing on that order.”In a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, Senator Gary Peters, Democrat of Michigan, also pressed Army officials on whether readiness and modernization should be prioritized over security at the southwestern border.“It is not for me to say one is more important than the other relative to the whole national security of the United States,” said Gen. Mark A. Milley, the Army chief of staff.Thomas Gibbons-Neff contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted Thursday to extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks for gun purchasers flagged by the national instant check system, the second major gun control bill to clear the chamber this week after two decades of inaction.Democratic leaders also succeeded in quelling a small rebellion among freshman Democrats from Republican-leaning districts, persuading them to oppose a politically freighted Republican procedural motion after they backed a similar motion on Wednesday.The 228-to-198 vote aims to extend the background check review period for gun purchasers to 10 days. Currently, the F.B.I. must perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase in three business days. If it cannot complete the review within that time, a buyer may return to the dealer on the fourth day to purchase a firearm.That provision in current law allowed Dylann S. Roof to purchase a handgun and kill nine people at a historic black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, even though he should have been denied his firearm.“Let’s give the F.B.I., the authorities, enough time to do their job and save lives,” Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip and the bill’s sponsor, implored his colleagues from the House floor.Both gun control bills that cleared the House this week face dim prospects in the Senate, but they were cause for celebration for the gun-control activists that mobilized last year after a series of horrific mass shootings.While Thursday’s bill was expected to easily clear the Democrat-controlled chamber, a dose of drama was added after House Republicans staged a successful ambush during the vote on the first gun control measure on Wednesday.In an attempt to divide Democrats and draw out vulnerable swing-district members, Republicans offered a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats broke party lines to support the measure, catching Democratic leadership caught off guard.House Republicans tried a repeat ambush on Thursday, surprising Democrats with a last-minute motion to exempt victims of domestic abuse from the new 10-day waiting period. This time, following strict marching orders from Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the motion failed, with only two Democrats, Representatives Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey and Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, voting for the measure.“Vote no, just vote no, because the fact is a vote yes is to give leverage to the other side and surrender leverage on the floor of the House,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters on Thursday.At a meeting of House Democrats before the vote, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York implored moderates to vote against the Republican-led motions and, in an implicit threat, added that she would make it clear to liberal activists which members supported the Republican measures, according to officials in the room.But some moderate freshmen, including Representative Xochitl Torres Small of New Mexico, stood up and explained how difficult the votes have been for them.House Republicans have sought to weaponize the procedural motion, using politically fraught measures to test the new Democrats’ resolve. The measures rarely hold the force of law, but a no vote even on a procedural motion could show up in a 30-second attack ad next year. Republicans succeeded in attaching a resolution condemning anti-Semitism and the boycott-Israel movement to a bill designed to halt American aid to Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen after even Democratic leaders gave up on opposing it.“All they want to do is feed red meat to their base,” Representative Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas, said of House Republicans. “I’m hoping that colleagues of mine will see it that way and understand that these procedural motions — even the best-worded procedural motion — has not had the chance to go through the process” of committee consideration.Amid concern that some Democrats will continue to break away on tough votes, some House leaders are weighing revising the rules to require Republicans to give them more notice on the content of procedural motions.Representative Joe Cunningham, Democrat of South Carolina, who has voted for Republican-backed motions, played down their importance on Thursday.“These little motions and minor bills should not take attention away from the fact that progress is being made to keep people safe,” said Mr. Cunningham, one of the co-sponsors of Mr. Clyburn’s gun control bill.Ms. Pelosi signaled that she was not keen to change the rules, but added that it could be a topic for consideration by a select committee studying potential changes to “modernize” the House.“I am a big believer in respecting the whole House and the rights of the minority to have their say,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters.The “Charleston loophole” bill did show some of the old divisions that have plagued Democrats in the past over gun control. Seven Democrats voted no, including freshmen Anthony Brindisi of New York, Jared Golden of Maine, Kendra Horn of Oklahoma, Ben McAdams of Utah and Ms. Torres Small of New Mexico, all of whom won Republican districts in November.Only three Republicans voted yes.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa FriedmanWASHINGTON — The Senate blocked consideration of the Green New Deal on Tuesday, ending a Republican effort to hitch Democratic presidential candidates to the climate plan and paint Democrats as out-of-touch socialists and fantasists.The resolution that Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, put to a test vote called on the federal government to rapidly eliminate planet-warming fossil fuel emissions; accelerate the deployment of wind, solar and other zero-carbon energy sources; and create a national jobs program.But the procedural motion simply to take up the Green New Deal failed to get a single vote. Democrats, including those who were sponsors of the resolution, denounced the move as a sham intended to divide their party and provide Republicans with election-season talking points. They overwhelmingly voted “present” on the motion, and it failed, 0 to 57.Three Democratic senators — Joe Manchin III, who represents coal-heavy West Virginia; Doug Jones of Alabama; and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona — joined Republicans voting no, as did Senator Angus King, an independent from Maine.But the hours of discussion that preceded the desultory procedural vote marked the most extensive examination of climate change on the Senate floor in years. The fight also took on larger dimensions as a proxy for the 2020 presidential battle, with Republicans charging that liberals intend to raise energy costs and devastate middle-class livelihoods, and Democrats blasting their counterparts for climate denial and inaction on an issue most Americans agree is serious.The day of drama included Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, exhibiting a poster of former President Ronald Reagan astride a dinosaur in an effort to treat the Green New Deal with “the seriousness it deserves.” Mr. McConnell dismissed the plan as a “science-fiction novel.” Outside the Senate, environmental activists chanted: “What do we want? A Green New Deal. When do we want it? Now!” even as they clarified that they did not actually want the Senate to pass this particular Green New Deal resolution at this precise moment.“To ordinary people, climate change is not politics. It’s life and death,” said Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts and a sponsor of the Senate version of the Green New Deal. Mr. Markey accused Republicans of trying to “sabotage” efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions and predicted that “they will pay a price at the ballot box in 2020.”Still, the maneuvering ultimately allowed both parties to declare political victory.Democrats said they intended to move forward on a number of fronts. In the House, a senior Democratic leadership aide said lawmakers would introduce sweeping legislation this week to require the Trump administration to stay in the Paris Agreement on climate change and create a plan for meeting the United States’ commitment to the global climate deal.In the Senate, Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, and Brian Schatz of Hawaii will announce a new special committee on climate change. Democrats are also expected to push to prioritize climate change in coming legislation on infrastructure and a deal to raise spending caps.Environmental activists said they believed the Republican strategy to ridicule, campaign on and raise money off the Green New Deal had backfired, with even Mr. McConnell acknowledging at a news conference on Tuesday that climate change was real and caused by human activity.“Mitch McConnell bet big that today’s vote would fracture the Democratic caucus,” said Varshini Prakash, the executive director of the Sunrise Movement, a youth movement for climate action. “Today he bet wrong,” she added.Shortly after the vote, however, Republicans including Mr. McConnell and Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming were scheduled to appear at a $500-a-plate fund-raiser for Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa at the National Mining Association, the chief lobbying group for the coal industry.Republicans meanwhile boasted that they had exposed a plan so extreme that even Democrats shied away from it.“Democrats are trying to duck, dodge and distance themselves from a vote on their own Green New Deal,” Mr. Barrasso said. “Every Democrat senator running for president supported it. Now when given the chance to actually go on the record, Democrats are desperate to avoid it.”All six presidential candidates in the Senate — Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts — had been sponsors of the Green New Deal.Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Astead W. HerndonJACKSON, Miss. — Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who has based her presidential bid on trying to outpace rivals with robust policy proposals, added more ideas to her liberal agenda on Monday night: getting rid of the Electoral College, removing Confederate statues, and creating a national commission to study reparations for black Americans.Ms. Warren’s remarks came during an hourlong CNN town hall at Jackson State University, a historically black college in the capital of the deeply Republican state. While reiterating her familiar positions on regulating corporations and upending Washington lobbying, Ms. Warren also sought to present new ideas to a national audience that is still getting to know her.“I believe we need a constitutional amendment that protects the right to vote for every American citizen and makes sure that vote gets counted,” Ms. Warren said in response to a question about voter disenfranchisement. “We need to put some federal muscle behind that, and we need to repeal every one of the voter suppression laws that is out there.”[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.]She then noted that most presidential candidates never campaign in Mississippi or her home state of Massachusetts during a general election because those are not battleground states in the Electoral College. Many Democrats have become sharp critics of the Electoral College after Al Gore in 2000 and Hillary Clinton in 2016 won the national popular vote but lost the Electoral College vote, and therefore the presidency.“Every vote matters, and the way we can make that happen is that we can have national voting, and that means get rid of the Electoral College,” Ms. Warren said, drawing one of her longest ovations of the night.Ms. Warren also used the forum to present herself as a candidate who understands racial inequities. Speaking to a racially diverse audience, she called for Confederate commemoration statues and monuments to come down and be moved to museums.Ms. Warren was also asked if Mississippi should adopt a new state flag that no longer has the Confederate battle flag emblem.“Yes,” she said.She also said she supported a commission to study reparations, though she sidestepped responding directly to a question about whether she supported financial payments from the government to descendants of slaves“Slavery is a stain on America,” Ms. Warren said. She later reiterated her statement in a tweet: “I support the bill in the House to support a congressional panel of experts so that our nation can do what’s right & begin to heal.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]Forget about the race for president — some 2020 Democratic candidates are already picking their running mates.Cory Booker and Beto O’Rourke, asked if they’d pick a woman, were quick to vow that they would. Joseph R. Biden Jr., before he has even entered the race, is scoping out Stacey Abrams (who’s considering her own presidential bid), as well as Kamala Harris and Beto O’Rourke (who are currently running for president).All that chatter prompted former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado to wonder at a CNN town hall Wednesday night why the female candidates aren’t being asked if they’d pick a man as their vice president.Well, thanks for asking, governor! We actually posed that very question to Elizabeth Warren on Sunday night, after an event in Memphis, Tenn. Here’s what she had to say:“I want somebody who’s going to get out there and fight on behalf of working people. That’s what matters most.”That response, though extremely on message, is very different from the ones offered by some of her male opponents.“No matter what — I’m looking you in the eye and saying this — there will be a woman on the ticket,” said. Mr. Booker. “I don’t know if it’s in the vice president’s position or the president’s position, but if I have my way, there will be a woman on the ticket.”There’s definitely something bizarre about so many candidates publicly mulling their vice-presidential picks, given that we’re still nearly a year away from the first votes being cast. Typically, this kind of discussion happens behind closed doors, and not for another year or so.But this strange little side narrative tells us two notable things about the primary race:1. Women have power. The question is how much.In 2018, women powered Democratic gains — as candidates, volunteers and voters — and it seems like the party is going into this contest with a sense that they could do the same next spring. The running mate remarks show that the campaigns believe they need a woman on a ticket; the men are just hoping that it doesn’t have to be at the top.Now, does that mean you should bet on a female candidate becoming the nominee? Uh, definitely not. The double standard that female candidates face is real and still hard to overcome, particularly in a presidential contest.2. Everyone is a pundit.The Democratic obsession with beating President Trump has turned everyone into a talking head. When asked, it’s not surprising for average voters to deliver their own detailed assessment of which candidate has the best chance of winning over the Midwest, liberals or black voters.There’s a ton of strategic thinking going on in the minds of the Democratic primary electorate. This kind of vice-presidential chatter seems squarely aimed at a party of punditocracy.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________At a CNN town hall this week, Elizabeth Warren’s biggest line wasn’t about Medicare for all, the Green New Deal or taxing the ultrarich. It was about the Electoral College.“My view is that every vote matters,” she said. “And the way we can make that happen is that we can have national voting, and that means get rid of the Electoral College.”The system the country has used to pick presidents since 1789 is decidedly out of fashion with Democrats.Beto O’Rourke said on Tuesday that “there’s a lot of wisdom” in scrapping it. Kamala Harris is “open” to the idea. Pete Buttigieg says it’s “got to go.” And polling shows three-quarters of Democratic voters support a national popular vote.But abolishing it would require amending the Constitution, which is, by design, an arduous process that only lets through the most bipartisan of ideas.Enter the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact.It’s an agreement between states to award their electoral votes to whichever candidate wins the popular vote. The pact would only take effect if the states involved were worth at least 270 electoral votes, the number it takes to win the Electoral College. (Of course, you can bet that if the proposal actually hit 270 there would be plenty of lawsuits challenging it.)This week, Colorado became the 12th state to sign on to the agreement, bringing the total to 181 electoral votes.It’s clear why Democrats would want to change the system. They have won the popular vote in six of the last seven elections, but lost two of those — George W. Bush in 2000 and President Trump in 2016 — because of the Electoral College.And the party fears those kinds of losses could become more frequent in coming elections, because of a demographic shift that has emerged as a serious threat for them: Democrats simply have more voters in fewer states.But the issue hasn’t always belonged to the left. Both parties have embraced the idea that the system, as Mr. Trump famously put it, is “rigged.” The president, it’s worth noting, has railed against the Electoral College since 2012.“I would rather have the popular vote, but for me it’s much easier to win the popular vote,” he said on “Fox and Friends” last April. “It’s what the Democrats use to make an excuse for their loss of an election.”His views changed some after the Democratic push this week.Perhaps “rigged” is the eye of the loser?What do you think of the plan to abolish the Electoral College? Send your thoughts to onpolitics@nytimes.com, including your name and state, and we may include it in next week’s newsletter.____________________• The prime minister of New Zealand announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, after a gunman killed 50 people at two mosques there last week. The ban is expected to encounter little resistance, and the largest opposition party quickly said it supported the measures.• The American Museum of Natural History is correcting history in plain view.• The Washington Post goes deep into the politics of the modern — and very traditional — marriage of Beto and Amy O’Rourke.____________________Mueller Watch continues!Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times• Britain’s Parliament on Tuesday soundly defeated Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan to exit the European Union, a 391 to 242 vote that is likely to delay Brexit and could derail it entirely. It is a devastating blow to Mrs. May that threatens her hold on power.• The vote left the nation with no obvious way forward, just 17 days before the deadline for leaving the European Union. Parliament is sharply divided on when, how and even whether to proceed with Brexit, and whether to call an election or a second referendum.Parliament’s rebuke to Prime Minister Theresa May, on the issue that has dominated British politics for three years, casts the nation’s political and economic future into confusion with just 17 days left until its scheduled exit from the European Union.The vote is sure to intensify calls for her to either step down, call a general election, or both. Plenty of Conservative lawmakers would like to take her place as party leader and prime minister, but there is no obvious front-runner, and the outcome of a general election is just as unclear.Mrs. May’s plan, painstakingly negotiated with the European Union, would have set the terms for Britain’s scheduled exit on March 29.Unless Parliament takes some other action, Britain will leave the bloc on that date without a deal in place, which Brexit hard-liners insist would be fine, but which most lawmakers and economists say would be disastrous.Parliament is set to vote Wednesday on whether to reject the prospect of a “no-deal” Brexit, and to vote Thursday on whether to seek a postponement of the March 29 deadline.The bloc would have to agree to a postponement, which appears likely, but the duration of such a delay is uncertain.“Let me be clear,” Mrs. May said after the defeat. “Voting against leaving without a deal and for an extension does not solve the problems we face. The E.U. will want to know what use we will make of such an extension.”Tuesday’s vote was Parliament’s second rejection of the plan, and there was talk of a third vote, even closer to the deadline.Parliament’s rejection of Mrs. May’s deal shifts the focus to a vote scheduled for Wednesday on whether to oppose leaving without a deal.After Tuesday’s vote, the prime minister said she would not try to dictate to her party’s members how to vote on Wednesday.“This will be a free vote on this side of the house,” she said.A vote against a no-deal Brexit would most likely require pushing back the originally scheduled departure date of March 29, and Parliament is scheduled to vote Thursday on whether to seek a postponement.Some hard-line Brexiteers insist that they would welcome a no-deal split as a clean and complete break from the European Union. But it is clear that most members of Parliament see it as more akin to driving over a cliff.Formal opposition in Parliament to a no-deal departure would ratchet up pressure on the government to seek a postponement of the deadline, something that would be contingent on an agreement between Mrs. May’s government and the European Union.Michel Barnier, the bloc’s chief Brexit negotiator, reiterated its position that delay or no delay, the European Union was not prepared to make more concessions. “The E.U. has done everything it can to help get the Withdrawal Agreement over the line,” he wrote on Twitter.The British government could evade the March 29 deadline unilaterally, but only by revoking its decision to leave the European Union, a step that Mrs. May has insisted she will not take. But postponing or revoking Britain’s departure would give new hope to those who want to call a second referendum.The 2016 referendum won with 52 percent of the vote, but Brexit opponents hope that circumstances have changed enough to reverse the result.Prime Minister Theresa May’s prospects of winning the crucial vote were dealt a significant blow Tuesday morning when the attorney general, Geoffrey Cox, said that the extra assurances she had negotiated with European leaders did not fundamentally change the legal position.Mr. Cox said the concessions did “reduce the risk” of Britain’s being trapped in the backstop — an insurance policy to ensure there is no hard Irish border, and a main issue for opponents of Mrs. May’s deal.[What is the Irish “backstop”? Read our full explanation here.]But Mr. Cox said that the assurances did not alter Britain’s rights and obligations. Were there to be a dispute, he wrote, the country would have “no internationally lawful means of exiting the protocol’s arrangements, save by agreement.”The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.Mr. Cox’s opinion was seen as influential for pro-Brexit Conservative lawmakers who had been considering voting for the deal.On Tuesday morning, Mrs. May led a meeting of the cabinet and told her senior ministers that passing the vote would allow the country to move on to a brighter future, while the alternative would be uncertainty with no guarantee of what happens next. “Let’s get this done,” Mrs. May said, in comments released by her office.Mrs. May has delayed the withdrawal vote time and again in hopes that the looming deadline would force critics on both sides to give in.But she faced a very steep climb: In January, Parliament rejected her deal by a vote of 432 to 202. On Tuesday, it became clear that she had not changed nearly enough minds to win.Her voice hoarse and her political career hanging by a thread, Prime Minister Theresa May stood up in Parliament on Tuesday afternoon and tried to narrow the choice before lawmakers: Vote for my deal, she said, or Britain might very well end up staying in the European Union.“If this vote is not passed tonight, if this deal is not passed,” Mrs. May said, “then Brexit could be lost.”Mrs. May was alluding to the possibility that, if Parliament were to reject her deal on Tuesday night, lawmakers could delay Britain’s departure from the European Union, and could later get behind a softer deal or a second referendum that could reject Brexit altogether.The prime minister, who hoped the threat of those outcomes would persuade hard-line Brexit supporters to back her deal, argued that the tweaks she had secured from the European Union on Monday had strengthened Britain’s hand and given it more power over the backstop arrangement that would temporarily bind it to European trading rules.But the empty green benches behind her at the start of her speech were just one sign of the thin support she enjoys among backbench Conservative members of Parliament.Even before the attorney general had issued his analysis, other legal experts had expressed similar opinions.Apparently, the most that can be said for the changes is that they reinforce the notion that Britain can opt out of European trading rules if officials in Brussels are found to be negotiating in bad faith.“In the real world,” wrote Michael Dougan, a professor of European law at the University of Liverpool, “such a prospect should be considered almost entirely theoretical, if not altogether fanciful.”Three experts in European and international law, commissioned by Brexit opponents to consider Mrs. May’s last-minute tweaks, wrote in an 11-page opinion, “The backstop will endure indefinitely, unless and until superseded by another agreement, save in the extreme and unlikely event that in future negotiations the E.U. acts in bad faith in rejecting the U.K.’s demands.”Government figures published on Tuesday showed very weak economic growth in Britain, just 0.2 percent in the three-month period that ended in January.“Growth remained weak with falls in manufacture of metal products, cars and construction repair work all dampening growth,” Rob Kent-Smith, the leader of the team that compiled the report, said in a statement.Investment in auto manufacturing and other sectors has taken a hit as the country has stumbled toward Brexit. Manufacturers have pleaded with the government for some certainty so they can plan ahead, but many have opted to take their business elsewhere.Joshua Hardie, the deputy director general at the Confederation of British Industry, described a no-deal Brexit as a “threat that is crippling business in sectors every day,” and encouraged lawmakers to vote for the deal.The value of the pound sagged after Mr. Cox’s advice on the backstop, with currency traders fearing that his comments had hurt the deal’s chances of passing.With the defeat of the deal, financial analysts said, the outlook for the pound, and the British economy as a whole, depended heavily on what follows. If Mrs. May resigns or calls an early election, that would inject still more uncertainty into the equation, making for a bumpy ride for Britain.If you don’t understand the plan for the Irish border, you’re not alone.Confusing in the best of times and loudly debated almost all the time, the Irish backstop is shorthand for the question of how to deal with the border between Ireland, a European Union member country, and Northern Ireland, a part of the United Kingdom, once Britain leaves the European Union.The backstop would be a way to avoid building a physical barrier with checkpoints for goods — the kind of barrier that the European Union has done away with inside the bloc. The backstop provision of Mrs. May’s Brexit plan says that so long as there is no long-term trade pact, Britain would remain in the European customs union and Northern Ireland would be bound by many of its rules.Britain could therefore remain tied to the European Union indefinitely without having a voice in shaping its rules — a nightmare scenario for hard-line supporters of Brexit. Mrs. May could cut a deal with the opposition Labour Party for a plan that keeps Britain closer to the bloc, but doing so would put her at risk of alienating her Conservative allies.Charles Walker, a senior Conservative lawmaker and member of the influential 1922 committee, demanded on Tuesday that Mrs. May call a general election if she loses the vote on her Brexit deal.“If it doesn’t go through tonight, as sure as night follows day, there will be a general election within a matter of days or weeks,” he told BBC Radio 4’s World at One program. “It is not sustainable, the current situation in Parliament.”The 1922 Committee is a group of Conservative lawmakers who meet weekly to discuss party matters. They are responsible for keeping the leadership informed of the party’s mood.The committee would manage any leadership ballot, although Mrs. May is largely immune from such an effort to remove her for the next 10 months since a party no-confidence vote in December failed.At the center of the Brexit issue is the Democratic Unionist Party, a small group of socially conservative, pro-withdrawal lawmakers from Northern Ireland who wield outsize influence because they prop up Prime Minister Theresa May’s government.The backstop infuriates them not so much because it might trap Britain in the regulatory orbit of Europe, but rather because it might bind Northern Ireland to more European trading rules than it does other parts of the United Kingdom.That effectively means trade barriers in the Irish Sea, splitting Northern Ireland ever so slightly from the rest of the United Kingdom. That’s unacceptable to unionists, for whom the link to Britain is sacred. The D.U.P. would rather kill the backstop and risk a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.The 10 D.U.P. lawmakers were coy early Tuesday about the tweaks that Mrs. May had obtained. But after Britain’s top lawyer said the new language didn’t substantially change the backstop arrangement, the government’s slim hopes of winning them over quickly deflated.The Belfast Telegraph reported that the D.U.P. saw the legal advice as “not exactly a ringing endorsement.” Other news outlets said D.U.P. officials saw no way that they could support the deal.A faction of pro-Brexit lawmakers within the governing Conservative Party opposed Mrs. May’s deal after a group of its lawyers officially recommended on Tuesday that the lawmakers should not vote for it.The prime minister needed to win over members of the faction, known as the European Research Group, to have any chance of getting her deal through Parliament.The group of lawyers published its assessment of the extra assurances that Mrs. May had secured from European Union leaders, saying that the agreement still did not give Britain the power to extract itself from European trading rules that it would be forced to accept as part of the backstop.“They do not provide any exit mechanism from the protocol which is under the U.K.’s control,” the assessment found.Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, opposed Mrs. May’s deal but otherwise maintained his ambivalence over Brexit as part of his strategy to buy time and come out ahead, observers said.Mr. Corbyn has said that he does not like the plan put before the British Parliament while “being imprecise over what exactly is Labour’s dream deal, other than that he wants a closer alliance with the customs union and single market,” said Jonathan Tonge, a professor of politics at the University of Liverpool.On the floor of Parliament on Tuesday, Mr. Corbyn dismissed the assurances Mrs. May had received from the European Union as “waffle,” and said that while the prime minister had laid out a number of Brexit goals, “she hasn’t met any of those objectives."“The Prime Minister’s negotiations have failed,” he wrote on Twitter. “Last night’s agreement with the European Commission does not contain anything approaching the changes Theresa May promised Parliament.”[Read about how Mr. Corbyn’s efforts to play both sides of the Brexit debate are tearing his party apart.]Mr. Corbyn’s ambivalence has angered the party’s primary constituencies: Although a majority of Labour voters overall wanted Britain to remain in the European Union, Brexit supporters in rural areas and working communities make up about a third of the party’s electorate.Mr. Corbyn has consistently rejected a “Tory Brexit,” and recently said he would support a second referendum — a bid to stop a rebellion among Labour lawmakers in Parliament. But that proposal has angered many Leave voters — especially those who feel left behind by a party they believed had championed them.“Corbyn can’t ride both horses forever but he’s already ridden for quite a long distance, and there is a certain logic to it,” Professor Tonge said.For more breaking news and in-depth reporting, follow @nytimesworld on Twitter.OpinionDawn FosterAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byRanked-choice voting in the mayoral election would have significantly smoothed the decision-making process for overwhelmed voters.By Kim BellwareMs. Bellware is a Chicago-based news and culture reporter.CHICAGO — History was made in Chicago’s wide-open mayoral race last night. Bill Daley, the son and brother of the city’s second-longest and longest-serving mayors, finished a close third behind Lori Lightfoot, a Democratic former federal prosecutor, and Toni Preckwinkle, chairwoman of the Cook County Democratic Party. After a runoff in April, one of the two women will be the city’s first black female leader. Long dominated by a white patriarchal machine, Chicago should celebrate its milestone. But after a convoluted and at times chaotic race, the winning women will move forward having each won less than 20 percent of the vote amid a record-breaking field of 14 competitors. With 1,999 of 2,069 precincts reporting, Mr. Daley had collected 14.8 percent of the vote, Ms. Preckwinkle 16 percent, and Ms. Lightfoot 17.5 percent. However, the candidates Jerry Joyce, Amara Enyia, Susana Mendoza and Willie Wilson all got between 7.4 percent and 10.5 percent of the vote, and their constituencies’ support placed in any other candidate’s bucket would have swung the vote in any number of directions. Various people reported struggling to make the complex strategic calculus that runoff systems force electorates to make: Should you vote your heart, for the candidate with whom you most agree? Or do you go with one of the candidates you don’t like but that you at least like more than the person who you fear has the best chance to win? If so, who’s that candidate?This abstract logic became exhaustingly concrete as Election Day approached. Helen Chang, a Chicago Teachers Union member said, “From what I could gather, just speaking to others,” deciding whom to vote for “was confusing. It was such a huge arena of candidates.”  A vast array of options — which presumably should have excited voters used to mayoral elections with foregone conclusions — instead inspired confusion and uncertainty. Chicago’s growing progressive bloc, for instance, liked candidates such as the community organizer Amara Enyia, who had many of the lefty bona fides they craved and none of the old-school political entanglements they didn’t. But with her small campaign operation and relatively low name recognition, there were fears she’d be trounced by a familiar face like Mr. Daley. Ms. Enyia was just one among eight or so popular contenders whose own grass-roots supporters wondered whether a vote for them was a waste. In this field rife with indecision, the largest bloc of voters in the waning days of the campaign were the one in five voters who were still undecided, according to a NBC/Telemudo poll. Mayor Rahm Emanuel, who is retiring, declined to endorse anyone. Of the endorsements that did land, most were lukewarm: The Chicago Tribune, the largest metro daily, and The Chicago Crusader, the city’s historic black newspaper, gave somewhat reserved endorsements of Mr. Daley. (“If reawakening the Daley dynasty gives you pause, fair enough. It gives us pause, too,” The Tribune’s editorial board wrote.)Now several campaigns are accusing others of being their spoiler — splitting a constituency one of them would have wholly dominated otherwise, robbing their candidate of a runoff chance. It didn’t have to be this way. Ranked-choice voting, in which voters simply rank the candidates in order of preference, would have significantly smoothed the decision-making. As Chicago’s races become more competitive, it may be time to change the way we vote, too. Instead of having to bet everything on one candidate, whom you may have serious problems with but strategically vote for to hedge against another candidate, in ranked-choice you pick who you like, then whoever else you like — or can tolerate — in descending order. If no one reaches a majority, the candidate with the fewest votes is knocked out, and votes for them are redistributed to whomever that voter ranked as second and so on. The process continues until there’s a winner — why some call it an “instant runoff.”In the end, you ask the voting machines to do a little bit more math, and in return, elections occur in one fell swoop and more accurately reflect the desires of voters. It’s a system that especially a city like Chicago — with its competitive, overlapping and diffuse constituencies — could use to both prove that everyone is receiving representation and provide clarity on who has true versus grudging support. Other major cities like Oakland, Calif.; Minneapolis; Cambridge, Mass.; and San Francisco have recently implemented a ranked-choice voting system to great success, ridding their populations of the headache that so many Chicagoans just experienced. Chicago’s runoff system — and its facile mano-a-mano narratives — endures mostly because it’s the devil we know. But familiarity isn’t a good reason for continuing a flawed and fixable system. And simplicity isn’t always a friend of good democracy. The campaign coffers of business- and development-friendly candidates like Bill Daley — and Rahm Emanuel in 2015 — are brimming with cash; Mr. Daley, notably, received $2 million in donations from Illinois’ richest man, Ken Griffin, head of the Citadel hedge fund. Labor groups like the Chicago Teachers Union, meanwhile, have well-organized volunteers (and often more money than community activists); most reportedly put their official support behind Ms. Preckwinkle. Each side complains that the others tip the scales. Ranked-choice voting can at least even the odds by forcing every candidate to reach out to all residents in the hopes of at least being their second favorite — rather than trying to run up the score in one’s strongholds. And it would alleviate, if not eliminate, garbled strategic voting.Robert Middlekauff, an influential organizer at the nonpartisan FairVote Illinois, recently endorsed ranked choice for the city on Chicago’s NPR affiliate. A Florida native, Mr. Middlekauff said: “I’ve become more frustrated with politics. Moving to Illinois, I realized, I’ve lost a lot of political power.” He went on, “You don’t have a lot of choices. Things are decided by money.”While the half-dozen or so major cities that now use ranked-choice voting are generally content with it, there has been some controversy around the only state-level experiment, in Maine: The person who collects the most first-choice votes doesn’t necessarily win, a useful sticking point for critics.Still, Kelly Pollock, a Chicago political activist who volunteers with a local chapter of a progressive grass-roots advocacy group, Indivisible, said that there was no consensus candidate in this campaign and that she would have welcomed ranked choice.“For something like a mayoral race, it would have been great to have it,” she said. “Among the people I talked to, there were maybe three people who everyone liked. A lot of people I knew through groups like Indivisible and Moms Demand Action were trying to figure out the strategic: ‘Who has the best chance of making it into a runoff?’ ‘How do we make sure the runoff isn’t going to be a Bill Daley versus Garry McCarthy?,’” the former police superintendent. Luckily for Ms. Pollock and company, they were spared both men. But Mr. Daley was roughly within a point of Ms. Lightfoot. And there’s no way to know which way the voters who wanted more moderate choices — like State Comptroller Susana Mendoza (who could also have made history as a Latina mayor) and the entrepreneur Willie Wilson, who together earned more than 19 percent of the vote — would have swung the race. Giving voters the power to rank votes would have cleared all of that up — for campaigns, citizens and the journalists tasked with accurately covering their views. The victories for Ms. Lightfoot and Ms. Preckwinkle are both a relief and a thrill to many of the city’s left-leaning voters. And while those voters may be pleased with the outcome, getting there was a well-documented struggle. One that never needed to be.Kim Bellware (@bellwak) is a freelance journalist whose work has appeared in Rolling Stone, The Atlantic, Vice News and Chicago Magazine.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by news analysisIn 2020, Democrats need millennials to turn out. Vote shaming apps can help. By Amy ChozickMs. Chozick is a writer at large for The Times covering business, politics and media.Twelve years ago, social scientists cracked the code on how to get Americans to vote. Before a special election in Michigan, 100,000 households received slightly different mailers: One reminded them that voting was their civic duty. Another applied gentle social pressure by including the voting history of everyone in that particular household (“Who votes is public information!” it reminded them). The final flier — and by far the most powerful — revealed the voting history of the recipients’ neighbors.“What if your neighbors knew whether you voted?” it asked, along with a warning that after the election, researchers would “publicize who does and does not vote.”“It proved to be the most effective intervention ever uncovered by an order of magnitude,” said Todd Rogers, a professor of public policy at Harvard who specializes in education and voting behavior.The findings had the power to transform political organizing, especially for Democratic candidates who rely on high voter turnout. There was just one problem. “It made people crazy and super irritated and offended,” Dr. Rogers said. “The underlying psychology is that when people feel like they’re going to be held accountable, they’re more likely to do it, but they also get really mad about it.”So political groups backed away from the idea. For the next decade, even as we abandoned our privacy with a swipe of the opt-in button and as apps that rely on social pressure proved effective in dieting, parenting and saving for retirement, political organizers largely ignored the power of peer pressure. Then came 2016 and the election of Donald Trump.“Not only did progressives lose, they were surprised they lost,” said Sangeeth Peruri, the founder and chief executive of VoterCircle, a platform that allows users to tap into their address books and easily identify and encourage (that is, nag) eligible voters. Users have the option to see whether their contacts voted in past elections and whether they are registered Republicans or Democrats.“Losing is one thing, but being surprised you lost is a failing of the system,” Mr. Peruri said. His platform, one of the first, started in 2015. But others soon followed. The shock of Mr. Trump’s election galvanized several developers who had worked on Barack Obama’s presidential campaigns. Steeped in Silicon Valley debates about privacy, they wondered if they’d been too timid about harnessing the enormous trove of publicly available voter data. After all, party affiliation and voting history had long been used internally by campaigns. Maybe political groups needed to stop caring about people’s feelings if it helped get them out to vote.Mikey Dickerson, the executive director of the New Data Project and a former Google engineer who was the chief of the United States Digital Service in the Obama administration, had learned about the Michigan survey in 2008, but he didn’t come up with his VoteWithMe app until 2017. The app outs anyone who didn’t vote in previous elections. (Alyssa Milano and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, looks like you both sat out the 2014 midterms.) It identifies friends in competitive districts (with a fire emoji) and provides handy text-message reminder templates (“You gonna vote?”). “We looked around and didn’t think it had ever been done before — putting voter-file data directly in front of you as the end user,” Mr. Dickerson said.Many in the technology industry initially scoffed at his idea. (“VoteWithMe is a creepy new app that checks your contacts’ voting history,” one article declared.) But several hundred thousand users downloaded VoteWithMe before the midterms, and Mr. Dickerson, who plans to step back and hand the technology over to like-minded groups, said lots of similar apps are springing up ahead of 2020.“I am worried about the foundations of the systems of government surviving and an administration that puts kids in cages and separates families,” he said. “I’m not going to feel bad that some of my friends, unaffected by any of this, have a mild amount of discomfort because some jerk — probably me — can see whether or not they voted.”The weight of peer pressure has a particular pull on millennials. They represent more than 30 percent of eligible voters, about on a par with baby boomers, but have the lowest voter turnout of any age group. Only 49 percent of voters ages 18 to 35 voted in the 2016 presidential election, according to the Pew Research Center. Democratic pollsters predict that increasing turnout among millennials by 10 percentage points would all but guarantee they defeat Mr. Trump in 2020.In an era when privacy feels like a nostalgic notion and our political leanings can be more or less gleaned from where we live, how we dress and what we watch, is there even such a thing as the sanctity of the voting booth? After several celebrities learned the hard way that most states don’t permit photos inside the voting booth, last year California legalized “ballot selfies” (thank you, Kim Kardashian). The day of the midterm elections, 1,000 people a minute were posting Instagram stories with “I Voted” stickers, according to the company.Developers said these turnout apps aren’t intended to shame anyone. As Debra Cleaver, the chief executive of the San Francisco-based Vote.org, a nonprofit group that works to increase voter participation, put it: “We call it social pressure or social validation. ‘Vote shaming’ sounds like it was coined by a reporter because it makes you want to click.” (Fair.) They say their primary purpose is “relational organizing,” or tapping into your social network to tell contacts about a candidate or election (as opposed to the old-fashioned and less effective “operational organizing” that involves dispatching volunteers to cold-call strangers). In other words, coastal liberals can make a difference while fiddling with an app on their sofas (“I know you’re going to vote on Nov. 6, duh, but make sure to remind your friends!” one text template reads), rather than flying to Iowa to knock on strangers’ doors. “I haven’t knocked on a door since 2014,” Ms. Cleaver said.Buffy Wicks, a community organizer and former Obama campaign aide who was recently elected to the California State Assembly, said it doesn’t have to be “an either/or.” She hosted 239 house parties at which she encouraged supporters to download VoterCircle, but she also knocked on 115,559 doors. More than 100,000 people voted for her. The rush to design apps to increase voter turnout is part of a wider push in Silicon Valley — trying to shake the taint of peddling fake news and Russian propaganda — toward “civic tech,” or innovations designed in the public interest. “There’s obviously a P.R. aspect,” Ms. Cleaver said. “But there is no way relational organizing apps can undo the damage that Facebook and Twitter have done.”Nevertheless, the apps are gaining traction. Revolution Messaging and Phone2Action and other liberal websites allow users to pressure their representatives, raise money and support candidates. Republicans have developed apps to, for instance, bolster the National Rifle Association or donate to Mr. Trump’s re-election.All of these, plus the individual apps that the armada of Democratic candidates running for president will soon offer, are enough to give anyone app fatigue. That’s why, in the coming months, Mr. Peruri of VoterCircle plans to rebrand his platform as OutreachCircle, making it a liberal one-stop shop to plan house parties, call your representative, advocate for a cause, give money to a candidate … and, if you’re so inclined, snoop on your friends’ voting history.The goal is to eventually build habits so that rather than just ranting on Twitter, people can use OutreachCircle to keep their communities engaged, essentially performing the function of an old-fashioned neighborhood precinct captain or PTA president. “Our influencers aren’t Katy Perry. It’s your church leader or your high school coach,” Mr. Peruri said.The apps are limited by often incomplete voter data (not even Silicon Valley can make the Board of Elections efficient). But Naseem Makiya, the chief executive of Outvote, an app that worked with MoveOn.org and Beto O’Rourke’s Senate campaign, said preliminary results show that a single text from a friend makes people roughly 10.2 percent more likely to vote. Other developers said peer-to-peer messaging led to a two to three percentage point increase in turnout last November — enough to swing races in tight districts.Robin Wolaner, a 64-year-old retired executive in San Francisco, used VoteWithMe to identify friends and family in competitive districts in Pennsylvania. “Frankly, most of my friends don’t need a reminder to go vote for Nancy Pelosi,” Ms. Wolaner said. As for vote shaming (sorry, I mean social validation), she tried to gingerly remind contacts that their voting history was public.“In some cases I sent messages saying: ‘Can this be right? Did you really skip the last midterm election?’” Ms. Wolaner said. “My kids would tell you I am a natural born nag, so it sort of fit my personality.”Natasha Baker, a 30-year-old lawyer in Washington, said she used VoteWithMe to encourage distant friends and family in Indiana and Virginia to vote. “It’s kind of creepy, I have to admit,” she said. But, she added, “If you have a friend who you can see voted in every election, you don’t have to spend your afternoon on that.”Then there is the voyeuristic urge to snoop. Mr. Dickerson was surprised to see that the VoteWithMe app was trending in the Apple store days after the midterm elections. “It doesn’t make a ton of sense — we’ve had no ads or promotions since voting,” Mr. Dickerson said.But to behavioral scientists, the downloads made perfect sense. “We are intensely social creatures and need to situate ourselves inside the collective,” said Robert Cialdini, a professor emeritus of psychology and marketing at Arizona State University and the author of several books on peer influence. He cited a study he did at a Holiday Inn in Tempe, Ariz. His team compared the usual cards requesting that guests reuse their towels to protect the environment with several alternatives: One added that most guests of the hotel had reused their towels; another said that most guests “who stayed in this room” had reused their towels. The last spurred a compliance rate of 49 percent, the largest spike in towel recycling the hotel had ever seen. “We think we’re free-standing individuals,” Dr. Cialdini said. But we “believe that the choice of our peers will work well for us, too.” Maybe that was why I felt compelled one Sunday afternoon to sit in a coffee shop with a friend and scroll through VoteWithMe with the giddy enthusiasm of a sample sale. I learned that one friend who lives in the West Village, owns a Beto T-shirt and has been known to insufferably quote the Pod Save America bros didn’t vote in the past midterm elections. (You know who you are.) My uncle in Texas who watches Fox News, however, was designated a “strong voter.” There may, however, be a fundamental flaw in the theory driving the apps. As developers work to expand them from hundreds of thousands of downloads during the midterms to mainstream use by millions ahead of the 2020 election, they could be leaving out the very voters Democrats most need to reach.The tendency of people to mimic their social networks — what behavioral scientists call homophily — could backfire in this case. Politically engaged people who download voting apps, and the friends they nag, will probably show up at the polls in greater numbers. But the opposite could be true for those in poor and disenfranchised communities where voting isn’t the norm. Dr. Rogers, the Harvard public policy professor, pointed to a 2015 study that observed social pressure on students by making an SAT prep session sign-up sheet public. Students in the A.P. class signed up in greater numbers when they knew their friends would see the list. Sign-ups in the remedial class, however, where studying wasn’t as socially accepted, decreased. “The increased transparency could have unintended consequences,” Dr. Rogers said, “if you look at your network and see no one votes.”Ms. Cleaver of Vote.org said she worried that this was a blind spot typical of Silicon Valley, an industry dominated by male engineers who are generally from privileged backgrounds. “Everyone wants the solution to increasing voter turnout to be an app, but turnout is low in this country because of decades of racism, sexism and voter suppression,” she said.Ms. Cleaver, a self-described “tech person” who is backed by the start-up accelerator Y Combinator, urged me to write about anything other than these apps. She proposed an article about the perils of voter registration still being tied to the Department of Motor Vehicles when a growing number of young people don’t have driver’s licenses. Or what about the problem with mail-in ballots that require a signature when young people don’t know cursive? Don’t even get her started on new voters being required to print forms. (“I mean, who owns a printer?”)She said that the tech industry, once hailed as a savior, is undergoing an identity crisis for good reason. “The logical conclusion of technology is that it all goes terribly awry,” she said. For the 2020 election, her group, Vote.org, plans to spend millions of dollars on billboards.Amy Chozick is a writer at large for The Times covering business, politics and media, and the author of “Chasing Hillary: On the Trail of the First Woman President Who Wasn’t.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Amy Chozick is a New York-based writer at large for The Times.   @amychozick • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThough Theresa May has lost a third gamble on a Brexit vote, there’s still hope a solution can be found. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Friday was supposed to be Brexit day, the day Britain would exit from the European Union with or without a deal. Instead, with the deadline pushed back, the embattled British Parliament capped a week of extraordinary turmoil on Friday with another decisive rejection of Prime Minister Theresa May’s terms for leaving the union.That set April 12 as the new deadline. European Union officials warned that no deal was now a likely scenario and called for a summit meeting on April 10. Yet for all the suspense and gloom, there remained a slim chance that Parliament could still find a way forward when it regroups on Monday.The indefatigable Mrs. May provided the week’s first shock on Wednesday when she nobly offered to resign as prime minister if only the Parliament would pass her twice-rejected E.U. deal. The shock gave way to suspense late that evening when the Parliament reassembled in its oak-paneled chamber to vote on eight different Brexit options, a maneuver that was supposed to indicate what sort of plan the legislators might actually favor, with options ranging from a customs union to another national referendum. The answer came in the style of a Greek chorus as John Bercow, the strong-lunged speaker, intoned, “The no’s have it!” again and again. The phrase could serve as the motto of the entire Brexit process, as the Parliament has repeatedly blocked any deal but has also blocked leaving the E.U. with no deal.So at the end of a long day of gripping drama, Mrs. May was still prime minister, and she wasn’t finished. She would put her twice-rejected deal to another vote on Friday, she declared, but only the withdrawal agreement part of it, which sets out the conditions of the divorce, including the controversial “backstop” arrangement that the E.U. insists on to ensure that no border is raised between Ireland and the British province of Northern Ireland.Mrs. May left the heart of the agreement unchanged for the third vote, which was defeated Friday afternoon, 344 to 286. “The implications of the House’s decision are grave,” said Mrs. May.It would all be splendid theater if it were not so fateful for Britain and for Europe. Had Mrs. May prevailed, Brexit would have been moved back to May 22. But without parliamentary approval for the deal, the E.U. declared the deadline a scant two weeks from now.It was not over, however. The Parliament was set to hold another series of votes on the various options this coming Monday. And while they were all rejected on Wednesday, there was a chance that members would reconsider at least the two that attracted the most votes — another Brexit referendum or a customs union between Britain and the E.U. If it appeared that Parliament was moving toward an agreement, the bloc would very likely agree to a longer extension.Historians will no doubt find many reasons the “mother of parliaments” has been in such spectacular disarray for so long on so critical a matter. One is the inherent contradiction in asking Parliament to carry out an ill-conceived referendum when a majority of the legislators, and the prime minister, were never in favor of Brexit. There has also been considerable discussion about the insularity and exceptionalism that has run through the entire debate on Brexit, in which the “Continent” figures as an alien and unwelcome imposition on an antique notion of “Britishness.”A process as bitterly divisive and extraordinarily complex as extracting Britain from the E.U. was never going to be easy. The repeated “no” votes in Parliament, the passion of the debate and the elaborate parliamentary maneuvering were a reflection of the complexity and passions at play, and not necessarily a failure of democracy. “Clearly there is also more work to do,” noted one coolheaded ally of Mrs. May after Friday’s vote, “but we are at least going in the right direction.”That may seem unduly chipper, given the real and present danger of no deal. But so long as the members of Parliament are still considering options such as another referendum or a customs union, both infinitely better than a chaotic plunge off the “no-deal” cliff, the process should by all means be allowed to continue.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBrexit has trapped British politics. Burn it down and start fresh. By Dawn FosterMs. Foster is a British political journalist.LONDON — What happens when “historic” defeats become commonplace?Yet again, Prime Minister Theresa May has dragged her Brexit plan in front of the House of Commons. Yet again, she has been “historically” defeated: 242 votes for it, 391 against. When it comes to Brexit, the only issue that has occupied her since she took office in July 2016, Mrs. May is completely and utterly powerless. And yet her most dangerous enemy is not an obstinate European Union or even the opposition Labour Party but the fanatical right wing of her own Conservative Party. Her most vicious detractors sit behind her during votes in Parliament and then tour television and radio studios merrily denouncing her the rest of the time.Her last “historic defeat” was in January, when a nearly identical deal outlining the terms of Britain’s exit from the European Union was crushed. Since then, she has delayed again and again in bringing the matter before a vote, hoping something might change. For a brief time on Tuesday morning, it looked like it might. Maybe Brexit would finally move on to its next phase instead of endlessly stalling. On Monday, Mrs. May had bundled herself off to Strasbourg, France, the seat of the European Parliament, to beg for enough concessions and assurances from the Europeans that she might be able to persuade the rebellious Conservatives to vote for a new version of the same “Withdrawal Agreement” that they “historically” defeated in January. That evening, she appeared at a hastily thrown together news conference with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker announcing the supposed changes, while back in London one of her deputies went to Parliament to sell the plan.Would that be enough to get Mrs. May’s weak deal through? Nope. By Tuesday afternoon, her own attorney general offered his opinion: The “concessions” did not change the substance of the agreement. It never stood a chance.Over the past months, Mrs. May had relied on fears of a “No Deal” Brexit to push Parliament to vote for her deal. It’s my way or off the cliff’s edge, she’d threatened. That was the strategy for months: Run down the clock ahead of the March 29 deadline and assume that Parliament (or at least a sufficient number of its members) will fall into line to protect Britain’s economy and their own reputations rather than face the economic chaos and political embarrassment of a disorderly exit.But with only 17 days left, it’s not working. The Brexiteers still see Mrs. May’s deal as too soft and would prefer to crash out of Europe — and cannibalize Britain’s economy atop the wreckage. Meanwhile, the Labour Party, sensibly, wants nothing to do with facilitating Mrs. May’s Brexit: This is the Conservatives’ mess to deal with, and any repercussions should be laid squarely at their doorstep. Increasingly, Mrs. May has been suggesting that Brexit could be delayed — for who knows how long.In the coming days, there will be more “historic” votes in Parliament. First, members will vote on whether they want to leave the European Union without a deal. Fortunately, a majority has enough sense to vote against that. The next step: a vote on whether Britain should ask the European Union for an extension on Brexit.But even if there is a delay, it’s hard to see what will change. Mr. Juncker has told Mrs. May “there will be no third chance” for renegotiating. The politics around Brexit appear impossibly stuck. Which is why the only option that makes sense at this point is a fresh election. If Parliament can’t get anything done, let’s elect a new one.It’s a risky option. A general election can’t be held in the next 17 days. It would require delaying Brexit by months. The soonest conceivable date an election could be held is April 25. And Mrs. May has good reason to fear the results: The last time she called an election, in 2017, she hoped to win a mandate for her Brexit policy and ended up losing seats in Parliament instead. If there’s one thing this prime minister is adept at it’s losing.But now Parliament is entirely frozen. Mrs. May has no power and no way forward — and nothing left to lose. She may as well burn it all down and try to start afresh.Dawn Foster is a Jacobin magazine staff writer, a columnist for The Guardian and the author of “Lean Out.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen CastleLONDON — In a last-ditch effort to try to get Parliament to pass her plan for Britain to leave the European Union, Prime Minister Theresa May on Wednesday offered to step down and allow another prime minister who has the confidence of her party and lawmakers to negotiate the final details.Mrs. May’s stunning overture to her fellow Conservatives came just as Parliament tried to sideline her and come up with its own plan for Brexit, as the process of leaving the bloc is known.But when lawmakers held a series of nonbinding votes on Wednesday night on eight different options for Britain’s future relationship with the European Union, none mustered a majority.Mrs. May is so unpopular and has lost so much authority within her party that her offer to step down, if her plan is approved, was greeted with relief by Tory lawmakers.“I have heard very clearly the mood of the parliamentary party,” Mrs. May told Conservative lawmakers gathered in a meeting room in Parliament. “I know there is a desire for a new approach, and new leadership, in the second phase of the Brexit negotiations, and I won’t stand in the way of that.”Several past critics, including Boris Johnson, the former foreign secretary, said they would now back Mrs. May’s plan, which Parliament has already overwhelmingly rejected twice. But it still faces long odds.A number of hard-line Brexit supporters were holding out, and more important, so was the Conservatives’ ally, the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland.If lawmakers seem unified around the idea of Mrs. May’s departure, nothing else is certain.In the nonbinding votes, the most popular options were motions to stay in a customs union with the bloc and to hold a referendum on any Brexit deal that is finally hammered out.Mrs. May’s plan would maintain customs and trade arrangements with the European Union until at least the end of 2020, and ultimately envisions cutting most of those ties.But it does not detail what would replace them, leaving open the vital question of Britain’s relationship to the European Union.If Mrs. May’s plan is approved, the battle over the details of Brexit will be fought first in a leadership struggle in the Conservative Party and then by all the other parties and factions that have scrapped with one another throughout the last two years.The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.The prime minister did not specify when she would step down. But the European Union has approved an extension in the Brexit process to May 22, if her plan gained approval, and that date could become the start of the leadership contest, which has been unofficially underway for some time already.The eight options that lawmakers voted on were selected by the Speaker of the House, John Bercow, including several that would keep Britain closely tied to the European Union, in a so-called soft Brexit.All of this is unfolding before an increasingly frustrated and cynical public that is asking questions about British democracy and the political elite, and whether either is capable of governing in the national interest. In the meantime, the world looks on at Britain’s follies in bewilderment.“If you compared Britain to a sphinx, the sphinx would be an open book by comparison,” Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission, told the European Parliament on Wednesday at a meeting in Strasbourg, France. “Let’s see how that book speaks over the next week or so.”Since becoming prime minister in 2016 with ambitions to tackle social divisions, Mrs. May has been dragged down by the Brexit quagmire and, after losing her parliamentary majority in a 2017 election, has seen her authority ebb away.Her advisers had urged her to offer to step down as the only way to garner enough votes to force her plan through Parliament. Many Conservative lawmakers have lost confidence in her leadership, and the strongly pro-Brexit faction wants one of its own to oversee the next, critical round in negotiations with the European Union.Lawmakers have already twice rejected the Brexit agreement that Mrs. May painstakingly negotiated with the European Union, each time by large margins.Last week, European Union leaders agreed to Britain’s request to delay its departure, which had been set to take effect on Friday, to avoid a chaotic exit without a deal in place.But time is short, and Europe has grown frustrated with the deadlock. Under the terms of the postponement, if Parliament does not accept Mrs. May’s deal, the new deadline will be April 12.The European Union is “expecting the United Kingdom to indicate a way forward,” Donald Tusk, president of the European Council, said at the meeting in Strasbourg.But European leaders reiterated that they were still open to a long Brexit delay — perhaps two years — if, as Mr. Tusk said, “the U.K. wishes to rethink its Brexit strategy.”That delay would have to be agreed to by the April 12 deadline.Mrs. May’s plan could return to Parliament later this week if she gets more pledges of support like that of Mr. Johnson’s.But most important for the plan’s fortunes is the opinion of the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, or D.U.P., whose 10 lawmakers usually support the government but currently oppose Mrs. May’s Brexit blueprint.Her plan contains a “backstop” to ensure against a hard Irish border that the party has vehemently resisted, saying it would lead to the dissolution of the United Kingdom and the unification of Ireland.One influential Brexit hard-liner, Jacob Rees-Mogg, said on Tuesday that he would back Mrs. May’s plan if the D.U.P. went along. With that seeming increasingly unlikely, on Wednesday he said he would vote in favor if the party merely abstained.On Wednesday, the leader of the House of Commons, Andrea Leadsom, a Conservative lawmaker, told the BBC there was a “real possibility” that Mrs. May’s plan could return for a vote as soon as Thursday.Still, a third effort to pass it would be a very tall order. Mrs. May would need to win the support of about 70 lawmakers who have already voted against it twice.If she managed that, she would almost certainly have quashed Parliament’s rebellion and ensured that at least some form of Brexit would take place relatively soon.Wednesday’s votes were never expected to yield a firm result. There is a better chance of that happening on Monday, when Parliament is expected to vote again on the most popular options from Wednesday’s voting.If that happens, lawmakers will then seek to forge a proposal that a majority can at least live with, and answer critics who complain that while Parliament knows what it doesn’t like, it has been incapable of saying what it does.Richard Pérez-Peña contributed reporting.Advertisement
